Cam Jones (born October 21, 1999) is an American professional football linebacker for the Kansas City Chiefs of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for the Indiana Hoosiers. He previously played for the Kansas City Chiefs and New York Jets of the National Football League.


== Early life ==
Jones attended Saint Benedict at Auburndale High School in Cordova, Tennessee. During his final two seasons of his high school career, Jones recorded 3,678 total all-purpose yards and 32 touchdowns.  A three-star recruit, Jones committed to play college football at Indiana University.


== College career ==
As a freshman during the 2018 season, Jones appeared in 11 games, totaling 20 tackles, two forced fumbles, and an interception. The following year, Jones tallied 35 tackles, two sacks, and one forced fumble. During a game against UConn, Jones returned an interception 44 yards for his first career defensive touchdown. In his junior season, Jones was named an All-Big 10 honorable mention after posting 35 tackles. In 2021, Jones had a career-year, recording 65 tackles, one sack, and one forced fumble. At the season's end, he announced he would return to Indiana using the extra year of eligibility given by the NCAA because of the shortened 2020 season due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In the first game of his fifth season, Jones would tally a team-high 12 tackles, despite being injured. During a game against Nebraska, Jones would go down with an injury and would not return, prematurely ending his season and college career. Jones finished his final season with a total of 54 tackles.


== Professional career ==


=== Kansas City Chiefs ===
Jones signed with the Kansas City Chiefs as an undrafted free agent on May 6, 2023. In 2023 he made the Chiefs final roster and played in all 17 games, recording 17 total tackles (14 solo, 3 ast). Jones became a Super Bowl champion when the Chiefs defeated the San Francisco 49ers in Super Bowl LVIII. In 2024 Jones played in all 17 games recording 19 total tackles (12 solo, 7 assisted).  On August 26, 2025, Jones was waived by the Chiefs.


=== New York Jets ===
On August 27, 2025, Jones was claimed off waivers by the New York Jets. On October 25, Jones was placed on injured reserve due to a hip injury suffered in Week 6 against the Denver Broncos. He was activated on December 13, ahead of the team's Week 15 matchup against the Jacksonville Jaguars.


=== New York Giants ===
On March 25, 2026, Jones signed a one-year contract with the New York Giants. He was waived by the Giants on July 25.


=== Kansas City Chiefs (second stint) ===
On August 19, 2026, Jones signed with the Kansas City Chiefs. On August 30, he was waived as part of final roster cuts and re-signed to the practice squad the next day.


== References ==


== External links ==

Kansas City Chiefs bio
Indiana Hoosiers bio

The Swatantra Party (lit. 'Free Party'  or 'Independent Party') was an Indian classical liberal political party that existed from 1959 to 1974. It was founded by C. Rajagopalachari in reaction to what he felt was the increasingly socialist and statist outlook of the ruling Indian National Congress government under prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru.
The party had a number of distinguished leaders, most of them old Congress leaders, like C. Rajagopalachari, Minoo Masani, N. G. Ranga, Darshan Singh Pheruman, Udham Singh Nagoke, and K. M. Munshi.
Swatantra stood for a market-based economy and the dismantling of the "Licence Raj" although it opposed laissez-faire policies. Nehru was highly critical of Swatantra and dubbed it as belonging to "the middle ages of lords, castles, and zamindars".


== History ==


== In Parliament ==
N. G. Ranga rebuked the Nehru government for being ill-prepared in defence on 8 November 1962 in a speech during parliamentary debate.
Minoo Masani, the party MP from Rajkot, voiced his opposition to the bank nationalisation bill by Indira Gandhi's government on 25 July 1969.


== Electoral history ==
In the 1962 general election, the first after its formation, Swatantra received 7.89 percent of the total votes and won 18 seats in the third Lok Sabha (1962–67). It emerged as the main opposition to the dominant Congress in four states: Bihar, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Orissa. By the next general election in 1967, Swatantra had become a significant force in some parts of India; it won 8.7 percent of the votes and became the single-largest opposition party in the fourth Lok Sabha (1967–71) with 44 seats. In 1971, Swatantra joined a "Grand Alliance" of parties from across the political spectrum that aimed to defeat Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. The party secured eight seats by winning 3% of the votes. The next year, in 1972, its founder, Rajagopalachari, died, and Swatantra declined rapidly. By 1974, it had dissolved, with many of its members joining the Charan Singh-led Bharatiya Lok Dal.


=== State legislative assembly elections ===


==== Odisha ====


==== Rajasthan ====


==== Bihar ====
In Bihar state assembly election 1962, party won at 50 seats. 


== Ideology ==

The Uttar Pradesh Praja Party was a political party in Uttar Pradesh, India. The party represented interests of zamindars (land owners), and contested the elections of 1951–52. The party was formed to oppose the Indian National Congress policy of abolition of the zamindari system.


=== Fundamental principles ===
The Swatantra Party committed to social justice and equality of opportunity of all people "without distinction of religion, caste, occupation, or political affiliation".
The party felt that progress, welfare and happiness of the people could be achieved by giving maximum freedom to individuals with the state minimising intervention. The state should replace its intervention with fostering the Indian tradition of helping other people directly.
In particular, the party believed that the state should adhere to the Fundamental Rights guaranteed by the Constitution of India and, in particular, should compensate individuals if their property had to be acquired for public purposes. It also believed in giving citizens full freedom to educate their children as they wanted. It recognised the need for increasing food production and sought to do so by giving peasants full land rights and incentives for increasing production in agriculture. In industry, it sought to reduce state presence only to the minimum necessary to supplement private enterprise and in national services like the Indian Railways. It sought to do away with controls on trade and commerce. However, it committed against unreasonable profits, prices and dividends. It believed in placing equal emphasis on the development of capital goods industries, consumer goods industries and rural and small industries. In the fields of taxation and state expenditure, it believed in thrift and called for taxation to suffice for carrying on of administration and social and economic activities taken upon by the state but should not depress capital formation and private investment. The government should also desist from running abnormally large deficits or taking foreign loans that are beyond the capacity of the country to repay. In particular, it resisted unnecessary expansion of the bureaucracy.
While standing for minimising state intervention in the economy, the Swatantra Party committed to securing a fair deal for labour, correlating wages to increased productivity and workers' right to collective bargaining. It also gave their members full freedom to question and criticise any point not included in the fundamental principles of that party.


=== Others ===
Party's fundamental principles had not covered several issues like foreign policy, national language, state reorganisation and religious and social reform.
The party was generally opposed to communism and in 1969, urged the Indian government to ban the three major communist parties in India at that time, the CPI, CPI(M) and the Naxalites, because of their open or tacit support for armed struggles, which the Swatantra Party viewed as a major security threat to the nation.
In foreign affairs, it opposed non-alignment and a close relationship with the Soviet Union and advocated an intimate connection with the United States and Western Europe.


== Decline and legacy ==
In 1969, the Congress party split, leading to consolidation of right-leaning votes under Congress (O). This proved detrimental to the electoral prospects of the Swatantra party. By 1971, the Swatantra party had disintegrated due to infighting and changed political scenarios. The party made some tactical mistakes like joining the Grand Alliance against Indira Gandhi's Congress in 1971 instead of fighting on an issue-based common programme. This resulted in the decimation of the party in the elections of that year. After the death of Rajaji in 1972, personality clashes took a further toll.
All this occurred while Indira Gandhi pressurised the royalty to support her. This resulted in Swatantra losing the backing of princes. Another potential benefactor, the business community couldn't advocate for the party since they were too reliant on state patronage. Moreover, big business houses like Birla benefitted from the protectionist aspects of the Nehruvian state and didn't see Swatantra policies as being advantageous.Finally the party was dissolved on 4 August 1974 by party president Piloo Mody who merged it with Charan Singh's Bharatiya Kranti Dal. The few independent state units except for Maharashtra later merged with Janata Party in 1977.


== See also ==

Piloo Mody
S. V. Raju
V. P. Menon
H. Ajmal Khan
Venkatesh Geriti
Indian National Congress breakaway parties
R. C. Cooper


== References ==


== Sources ==
Bipan Chandra et al. India Since Independence. Penguin India. 2008 [2011 digital edition].
Mariadas Ruthnaswamy. "Swatantra Party and its leaders". Swarajya. 30 July 1960.
Mariadas Ruthnaswamy. "Is Swatantra inspiring enough?". Swarajya. 22 October 1960.
H. R. Pasricha. The Swatantra Party – Victory in Defeat. Rajaji Foundation. 2002.
Howard L. Erdman. "India's Swatantra Party". Public Affairs, vol. 36, iss. 4, pp. 394–410. Winter 1963–64.
Howard L. Erdman. The Swatantra Party and Indian Conservatism. Cambridge University Press. 1967. Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2013.
Madhavankutty Pillai. "Last Man Standing". Open. 5 April 2014.
Rajmohan Gandhi. Rajaji: A Life. Penguin India. 1997.
Ramachandra Guha. India After Gandhi: The History of the World's Largest Democracy. HarperCollins. 2008.
Rasam Vasanti. Swatantra Party: a political biography. Dattson Publishers, Nagpur. 1997.
Rasam Vasanti. "Role of Swantantra Party as an Opposition Party (National Level)". Readings on Parliamentary Opposition.


== External links ==
C. Rajagopalachari : Save freedom. Why Swatantra, 1960
Minoo Masani: To provide A Democratic Alternative. Why Swatantra, 1960
K. M. Munshi: To Restore Fundamental Rights. Why Swatantra, 1960
N. G. Ranga: To Preserve Family Economy. Why Swatantra, 1960
Rediff On The NeT: Rajmohan Gandhi on C Rajagopalachari and the birth of the Swatantra Party
Revive the Swatantra Party
Minoo Masani and the Swatantra Party

Phoolwari (transl. Flower Garden) is a 1946 Indian Hindi-language romantic drama film directed by Chaturbhuj Doshi for Ranjit Studios. 
The film starred Motilal and Khursheed in lead roles, with Madhubala and Dixit appearing in supporting roles. 
Its music was composed by Hansraj Behl, while the lyricist was Pandit Indra.
Phoolwari, a critical and commercial success, is cited to be one of the most successful and important films of Motilal. It is considered lost today.


== Cast ==
Motilal
Khursheed
Madhubala (as Baby Mumtaz)
Dixit
Nazir Begum
Tiwari


== Production ==
Phoolwari began filming in October 1945 and was completed by February 1946. It was Madhubala's fourth film under Ranjit Movietone and overall fifth film as a child artist (Madhubala as Baby Mumtaz).


== Soundtrack ==
The film's music was composed by Hansraj Behl with lyrics by Pandit Indra. The singers included Khursheed, Baby Anu, Mohantara Talpade, and Hamida Banu.


=== Songlist ===


== Box office ==
Phoolwari was a critical and commercial success. Box office India reported that the film grossed ₹40 lakhs at the box office to emerge as the third highest-grossing film of 1946, with a verdict of "hit".


== References ==


== External links ==
Phulwari at IMDb

Rosyth Dockyard Recreation F.C. was a Scottish association football club, which twice played in the Scottish Cup in the 1930s.


== History ==
The club, from Rosyth in Fifeshire, was made up of men from the Rosyth naval base.  It was in essence a football-playing sub-section of the Rosyth Recreation athletic club, and the club funded both Junior and Senior sides at various times from 1918 to 1957.  It was also referred to as Rosyth Recreation.
The first references to the club come from the 1918–19 season; at the time it was a Junior club and entered the Scottish Junior Cup, reaching the third round in its first season in the competition, albeit after a bye and a walkover.  It won its way through to the third round on merit in 1923–24, the furthest it reached in the competition before the war, and won the West Fife Junior Cup, thanks to a 3–1 home win over Kelty Rangers. It also played in junior leagues in Fife from 1920–21 to 1925–26, without success.
The club joined the Scottish Football Association in 1933–34, entitling it to play in the Scottish Qualifying Cup and Fife Cup.  It only played in the latter competition once, in 1934–35, losing its only fixture 2–0 at Dunfermline Athletic.  However, in the club's first attempt in the Qualifying Cup, it won the North section, beating Ross County 4–1 in the final at Pittodrie; Rosyth turned the tie around on the half-hour, Garland and Clusker scoring within a minute to take the club from 1–0 down to 2–1 up, and County's goalkeeper Sherlaw was injured in failing to stop the second.
The triumph put the club into the first round of the 1933–34 Scottish Cup, the club then losing at Vale of Leithen.  It also entered the Edinburgh & District League that season, finishing second, 11 points behind runaway winner Penicuik Athletic.
The club reached the North final again in 1934–35, losing to Clachnacuddin (again at Pittodrie), but this time the club won its first round tie in the 1934–35 Scottish Cup, 3–1 at Berwick Rangers, despite - or because of - Rangers bringing in players from Newcastle United and Alnwick to bolster the forward line. Rosyth only narrowly went down to Airdrieonians in the second round.  The club was also declared the champion of the Edinburgh & District League, although the league had diminished from 13 clubs to 5, and not all matches were played.
The club entered the Qualifying Cup until 1938–39, but never won another tie - its final appearance was a 5–4 defeat at Dunkeld & Birnam.
After the Second World War, the club returned to the Junior rank.  It had significant success at local level, winning the Fife Junior League and Cup in 1949–50, and beating Newburgh 8–2 in the final of the Cowdenbeath Junior Cup, at East End Park, Colin Syme and Bobby Simpson both scoring hat-tricks.  In 1950–51, Recreation had its best run in the Scottish Junior Cup, by getting to the sixth round for the only time, where the club lost 1–0 at home to Irvine Meadow XI; its tie with Luncarty in the fifth round had to be replayed, after Luncarty protested successfully against Rosyth's Richard Sharpe being a senior player.  However the club's reliance on the Recreation Club was its downfall; the club announced in 1957 that its playing field was to be closed, and as a result the football club folded.


== Colours ==
The club wore red and yellow hooped jerseys, white shorts, and red socks.


== Ground ==
The club played at the Rosyth Recreation Park, where the Reserve Fleet had its athletic games.  The highest attendance was in the Junior Cup 6th round tie against Irvine Meadow in March 1951, with a reputed 5,000 fans travelling from Ayrshire helping to swell the crowd to 8,000.


== Notable players ==
Jimmy Smith, the club's goalkeeper in the early 1920s, who later played for Tottenham Hotspur
David Russell, the club's only Junior international, capped in the 1923 match against England at Birmingham City, and who later played for Doncaster Rovers and Leeds United


== Honours ==
Scottish Cup
Best result: 2nd round, 1934–35
Scottish Qualifying Cup (North)
Winner: 1933–34
Runner-up: 1934–35
Edinburgh & District League
Winner: 1934–35
Runner-up: 1933–34
Fife County League
Winner: 1949–50
Fife Junior Cup
Winner: 1948–49, 1949–50
West Fife Junior Cup
Winner: 1923–24
Cowdenbeath Junior Cup
Winner: 1949–50


== References ==

Arsen Agjabayov (Azerbaijani: Arsen Ağcabəyov; born 11 September 2000) is an Azerbaijani footballer who plays as a defender for Şamaxı in the Azerbaijan Premier League.


== Club career ==
On 15 February 2020, Agjabayov made his debut in the Azerbaijan Premier League for Sabah in a 2–1 victory against Sumgayit.


== References ==


== External links ==
Arsen Agjabayov at Soccerway

Ignalina Česlovas Kudaba Progymnasium is a day, self-learning secondary school in Ignalina, Lithuania. It provides primary and middle school education programs in the Lithuanian language. It is named after Česlovas Kudaba, traveler and signatory of the Act of the Re-Establishment of the State of Lithuania. The school houses his small museum.


== History ==
In 1939–44, elementary school operated in Ignalina. In 1944, it became a progymnasium. 1 September 1946, a Lithuanian-language high school was opened.
In 1993, the school was named after Česlovas Kudaba. On 15 July 2002, after the establishment of the Ignalina district gymnasium, the school was reorganized into a primary school. On 15 July 2003, Ignalina district gymnasium was merged into the school. On 1 September 2003, schools in Bėčiūnai, Didžiasalis and Kazokinė were attached to the school. However, the next year Bėčiūnai and Didžiasalis schools closed due to the low number of students. Kazokinė section closed in 2005.
Since September 2005, the school operates an adult education class. On 31 August 2009, two other schools were merged in: Ceikiniai Kipras Petrauskas secondary school and Linkmenys primary school.
On 30 May 2013, the Council of the Ignalina District Municipality reorganized the school into the Ignalina Česlovas Kudaba Progymnasium.


== Notable students ==
Česlovas Juršėnas


== External links ==
School website


== References ==

Kathryn Rice Bullock  (September 24, 1945 – May 17, 2021) was a chemist, best known for her work in developing  valve-regulated lead-acid batteries. Her theoretical and statistical modeling of the electrochemistry of batteries led to better understanding of processes such as corrosion and advances in battery design. Her work has applications for hybrid and electric cars, residential fuel cell systems and solar energy storage. Kathryn Bullock has published over 60 technical papers and holds at least 11 U.S. patents.  She served as vice-president of the Electrochemical Society in 1992 and as president from 1995 to 1996. Bullock died on May 17, 2021, from Alzheimer's disease.


== Early life and education ==
(Norma) Kathryn Rice (later Bullock) is one of twins, born September 24, 1945, in Bartlesville, Oklahoma, to Robert Bruce Rice and Norma Elaine Fanshier. Her twin sister Judith Rice (later Henderson) became a scholar of sixteenth-century literature. Their father, Robert B. Rice, was a geophysicist. During summers Kathryn worked as a part-time secretary at Marathon Oil Company, where her father was employed. He encouraged her to pursue a scientific career.
Kathryn Rice attended the University of Colorado Boulder, receiving a B.A. in English and a minor in chemistry minor in 1967. She was the only female student in a lab of fifty men.   In 1967, Kathryn Rice married Kenneth Bullock, a seminary student.  They have two children, Kevin and Kerry.
Her first scientific position was as a combined secretary and technical staff person in a new battery development group, organized by John Devitt at Gates Rubber Company in Denver, Colorado. There Bullock became interested in nickel oxide-zinc batteries. She went to Northwestern University for further study, receiving an M.S. in chemistry in 1969 and a Ph.D. in physical chemistry in 1972. At Northwestern, she worked with Donald E. Smith, using alternating current polarography to study electrochemical reactions.


== Career ==
In 1972, Bullock rejoined the Electrochemical Research Department of the Gates Company. John Devitt's group at Gates was working on development of a valve-regulated lead-acid battery (VRLA). Prior to the development of VRLAs, "flooded" rechargeable lead-acid batteries were used.  They were filled with 30-40% sulfuric acid. At 85-90% of their charge capacity, chemical reactions within the battery became less effective, and water in the system was converted into hydrogen and oxygen gases.  Flooded batteries could not be sealed, and had to be monitored to ensure effectiveness and prevent problems. In contrast, VRLAs were designed to ensure that oxygen would recombine rather than being lost. VRLAs contain acid inside a silica gel or absorb it into a porous glass separator. Gases that do not recombine are vented through a one-way pressure-release valve.  Bullock developed computer models describing the relationships between the circuit voltage of VRLAs and their acid concentration, battery charge and internal temperature. She read widely and was inspired by the work of people like Jeanne Burbank, Paul Ruetschi, and Detchko Pavlov. She studied corrosion within batteries. She examined the effects of adding phosphoric acid to lead dioxide electrodes in gel batteries to increase battery cycle life, resulting in the creation of batteries with low levels of phosphoric acid. In 1977, Bullock joined Globe-Union, Inc. in Milwaukee, where she continued her work with VRLAs.  Her work on the effects of adding phosphoric acid to lead dioxide electrodes won her the Battery Division Research Award from the Electrochemical Society in 1980.
In 1980, Bullock became manager of Globe-Union's Chemical Research Department, which later became part of Johnson Controls, Inc. At Johnson, funded in part by the U.S. Department of Energy, she and William Tiedemann developed JCI's Battery Technology Center. They did early research in areas including thermal management, grid corrosion, grid design, and load leveling, developing many different types of batteries including electric vehicle batteries. Bullock filed a number of patents on methods for improving battery design, production and performance.
In 1991, she was invited to lead a battery development group at AT&T Bell Labs (later Lucent). Her work on the development of batteries has led to improved designs which have been licensed and used all over the world. With AT&T Bell Labs's Power Systems Business Unit, she received the Deming Prize of the Japanese Union of Scientists and Engineers in 1994.
In 1996, AT&T Bell Labs became Lucent Technologies, and Bullock joined Medtronic, Inc. to develop lithium batteries for use in medical devices. She remained there for three years before becoming vice-president of C&D Technologies, Inc., where she remained for another three years. In 2003, she formed Coolohm, Inc., a consulting company specializing in power sources. She studied the role of carbon in battery design, and taught classes in power sources as an adjunct faculty member at Villanova University. She served on a number of policy-related committees and projects.
Bullock was an active member of the Electrochemical Society, which she 
joined in 1972. She helped to organize the Rocky Mountain (1973) and Southern Wisconsin (1982) Sections. She held a variety of appointments on offices and committees, most importantly as vice-president of the society in 1992 and as president from 1995 to 1996.


== Awards and honors ==
Bullock has received a number of awards and honors including the following: 

Gaston Planté Medalist from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences (1996)
Deming Prize of the Japanese Union of Scientists and Engineers, as part of the AT&T Bell Labs/Lucent Technologies Power  Systems  unit (1994)
Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry (1988)
American Institute of Chemists (1987)
ECS Battery Division Research Award (1980)
Electrochemical Society Summer fellow (1969)
National Institutes of Health Fellow (1972)
Phi Beta Kappa Society (1966)


== References ==

Oswald Mathias Ungers (12 July 1926 – 30 September 2007) was a German architect and architectural theorist, known for his rationalist designs and the use of cubic forms. Among his notable projects are museums in Frankfurt, Hamburg and Cologne.


== Biography ==
Oswald Mathias Ungers was born in Kaisersesch in the Eifel region. From 1947 to 1950 he studied architecture at the University of Karlsruhe under Egon Eiermann. He set up an architectural practice in Cologne in 1950, and opened offices in Berlin in 1964, Frankfurt in 1974 and Karlsruhe in 1983.
He was a professor at Technische Universität Berlin from 1963 to 1967 and served as the dean of the faculty of architecture from 1965 to 1967. In 1968 he moved to the United States, where he became the chair of the department of architecture at Cornell University from 1969 to 1975. In 1971 he became a member of the American Institute of Architects. He was also a visiting professor at Harvard University (1973 and 1978) and the University of California, Los Angeles (1974/75). He returned to Germany in 1976, becoming a visiting professor at the University of Applied Arts Vienna (1979/80) and a full professor at the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf (1986).
Ungers died on 30 September 2007 from pneumonia. He was married to Liselotte Gabler (1926–2010) and had one son, the architect Simon Ungers, and two daughters.


== On his work ==
Ungers' buildings are characterized by strict geometrical design grid. Basic design elements of his architecture are elementary forms such as square, circle or cube and sphere, which Ungers varied and transformed in his designs. As an architectural theorist and university lecturer, Ungers developed what his critics called "quadratism", his admirers "German rationalism". In doing so, he resorted to the teaching of Jean-Nicolas-Louis Durand who had published in 1820 his pattern books with geometric prototypes for "any building". In his formal language, Ungers explicitly referred to elementary architectural design elements that are independent of contemporary tastes. His historical role models in the history of architecture come mainly from Roman-Greek antiquity. His work was therefore occasionally criticized as formalistic. In connection with his construction on the Frankfurt Messe grounds, there was often talk of a "new clarity". Like hardly any other architect, Ungers has remained true to his once chosen formal language for decades. He was one of the leading theoreticians of Second Modernism.
Well-known students of Ungers include Max Dudler, Jo. Franzke, Hans Kollhoff, Rem Koolhaas, Christoph Mäckler, Jürgen Sawade and Eun Young Yi.


== The Archive for Architectural Research (UAA) ==
Ungers Archive for Architectural Research contains his architecture library, which he began building in the 1950s, as well as the architect's entire artistic legacy. The library focuses on architecture tractate, works on the emergence and further development of perspective and publications on theory of colour. The library includes the first edition of Vitruv's De Architectura Libri Decem of 1495 as well as rare editions such as the Staatliche Bauhaus in Weimar 1919–1923 and publications of the Russian avantgarde, for example Von zwei Quadraten by the architect El Lissitzky. Together with his estate it is housed in the library cube of Ungers' listed building in Belvederestraße 60, Müngersdorf and is available to the scientific public for research purposes.


=== Ungers' collection of architectural icons ===
Part of the Ungers Archive for architectural Research are the models of historical architectural icons which the diploma designer and architectural model builder Bernd Grimm built in collaboration with the architect. Ungers goal was to create a "three-dimensional collection" of historically significant buildings. The models are made of white Alabaster gypsum and have a wooden substructure.

1993: Parthenon, Athens, 447–438 BC, model in scale 1:50
1995: Pantheon Rom, 118–128 BC, model in scale 1:50
2001: Castel del Monte by Friedrich II, Apulia, 1240–1250, model in scale 1:70
2002: Kenotaph for Isaac Newton, 1784, Architect: Étienne-Louis Boullée, model in 1:400 scale
2001: Tiempietto del Bramante, Rome, 1502, Architect: Donato Bramante, model in scale 1:15
2004: Mausoleum of Theoderic, Ravenna, circa 520 AD, model in scale 1:20


== Selected projects ==
1958–1959 Haus Ungers in Lindenthal, Cologne
1979–1984 German Architecture Museum in Frankfurt
1980 The Presence of the Past exhibition at the Venice Biennale
1980–1983 Messe Torhaus in Frankfurt
1981–1984 Konstantinplatz in Trier
1983–1991 Baden State Library in Karlsruhe
1986 Former main building of the Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research in Bremerhaven
1993–1996 Friedrichstadt-Passagen (Quartier 205) in Berlin
1994 Residence of the German ambassador in Washington D.C.
1994–1995 Haus ohne Eigenschaften (house without qualities) in Cologne
1995 Hamburger Kunsthalle, Galerie der Gegenwart
1998–2001 Dorotheenhöfe, Berlin
2001 Wallraf-Richartz Museum in Cologne
2006 Entrance to the ruins of a Roman bath in Trier
Proposed or under construction
In 2000, he won an architectural competition to redesign the Pergamon Museum in Berlin. His controversial plan proposes large alterations to the building complex which has remained unchanged since 1930. The rebuilding is scheduled to end in 2025.


== Gallery ==


== Awards ==
1987 Großer BDA Preis
1997 Commander's Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany


== Writings ==
Ungers, Oswald Mathias (2011). City metaphors (in German). Köln: Walther Konig Verlag. ISBN 978-3-86560-946-5.
—— (2011). Die Thematisierung der Architektur (in German). Sulgen: Niggli. ISBN 978-3-7212-0698-2.
—— (1999). Was ich immer schon sagen wollte über die Stadt, wie man sich seine eigenen Häuser baut, und was andere über mich denken: Aphorismen zum Häuserbauen (in German). Wiesbaden Braunschweig: Vieweg. ISBN 978-3-528-08143-0.
——; Neumeyer, Fritz (1991). "Entwerfen mit Vorstellungsbildern, Metaphern und Analogien. Anmerkungen zu einem morphologischen Konzept". Architektur 1951 – 1990 (in German). Stuttgart: Dt. Verl.-anst. ISBN 978-3-421-03010-8.


== References ==


== External links ==

"UAA". Ungers Archiv für Architekturwissenschaft (in German). Retrieved 11 October 2023.
Pogrebin, Robin (6 October 2007). "Oswald M. Ungers, Design Theorist and Architect of Major German Projects, Dies at 81". The New York Times. Retrieved 11 October 2023.
Glancey, Jonathan (18 October 2007). "Obituary: OM Ungers". The Guardian. Retrieved 11 October 2023.

This is a list of the major characters featured in Wolf's Rain, a 30 episode anime series and four episode OVA created by writer and story editor Keiko Nobumoto and BONES and directed by Tensai Okamura. It was later adapted into a short 2 tankōbon manga series with illustrations by Toshitsugu Iida.


== Wolves ==
The wolves in Wolf's Rain use illusions to give themselves a human appearance, enabling them to blend into the human world and escape detection. The wolves always retain their true nature, neither thinking nor acting as the true humans in the world do.

Kiba (キバ; lit. 'Fang')
Voiced by: Mamoru Miyano (Japanese); Johnny Yong Bosch (English, Bandai Visual dub), Darren Pleavin (English, Animax Asia dub)
The main protagonist of the series, Kiba is a white wolf who follows his instincts towards Paradise. When he was young, his pack was slaughtered when the forest he lived in was burned to the ground by Jaguara's troops. He was then found and raised by a Native-American shaman-(Voiced by: Akio Ōtsuka (Japanese); Jamieson Price (English) who told him that he had a purpose, explaining why the forest had sheltered him from the flames. The shaman told him that he would have a great journey ahead of him, and that his journey was to find Paradise. Kiba begins his quest for Paradise in the hope that he will find "a future". It is revealed later in the series that he is in fact the chosen one who is destined to find and open Paradise. Kiba tends to be impulsive and thinks with his heart rather than his head. When Kiba is first introduced, he is distrustful toward humans and in the early episodes, his pride as a wolf makes him reluctant to disguise himself as one, but that all changes when he meets Hige, who tells him that his pride won't count for much when he's dead. He's also utterly devoted to Cheza and constantly risks his life to protect her and steal her back from the nobles. At the end of the anime, Kiba manages to escape with his friends and Cheza from Jagura's fortress as the city collapses behind them and now walk towards an unknown yet hopeful future. In the OVA, Kiba seemingly dies after Darcia and Cheza do and he falls into the water. After his seeming death and the Earth's regeneration, Kiba is seen in a city in his human form where he discovered a newly grown lunar flower. His Japanese voice actor Mamoru Miyano felt Kiba was a "wolf of few words" and that his quiet nature made it hard to know what he might be thinking.  Though Kiba is rarely bothered by events, Miyano did not think this was an indication that he was strong, rather he felt Kiba was attempting to hide his insecurities. In depicting the character, Miyano found it most difficult to voice the initial scene of the first episode, in which Kiba lies dying and in voice over says there is no Paradise and that there is nothing at the end. He was so nervous about shooting the first scene, he had trouble getting the lines and voicing correct, eventually freezing up completely before he was able to calm down and complete the scene.

Tsume (ツメ; lit. 'Claw')
Voiced by: Kenta Miyake (Japanese); Crispin Freeman (English, Bandai Visual dub), Victor Lee (Animax Asia dub)
Tsume is a grey wolf with a scar on his chest, and the second wolf introduced in the series. At first he lives in Freeze City where he leads a "pack" of human thieves. He clashes with Kiba over the latter's claims that Tsume has lost his pride as a wolf for living with humans, proving a worthy opponent. Later, he connects with Toboe, a young wolf who also lives in the city. Though Tsume claims he has no need for friends and that he wants nothing to do with other wolves, he comes to Toboe's aid twice and even shares a meal with him. Though he doesn't believe Kiba's stories about Paradise, he decides to leave the city with him under the excuse that he is tired of the city.
Tsume is depicted as confident, and at times arrogant, and keeps himself distant from his allies. Though he and Kiba continue to come into regular conflict, Tsume eventually comes to believe in their goal and becomes a loyal pack member. In the anime, we see in a dream of Tsume's that he had always been a lone wolf and preferred being on his own to travel the world; eventually, he found himself befriending humans more than wolves before blending in with them. In the OVA, his past is alterered in which, before moving to Freeze City, he had lived in another location with a large pack of wolves. Jaguara's wolf hunting troops attacked the pack, killing most of his family and friends. As Tsume attempted to flee from the battle, he was cast out by his pack and the alpha male attacked him, leaving him with a large X-shaped scar across his chest, branding him as a coward. Tsume eventually traveled to Freeze City where his self-loathing over his actions caused him to refuse to befriend others. Out of all of the pack, he is closest to Toboe, whom he refers to as "runt". After the young wolf is accidentally killed by Quent in the OVA (Quent dying soon after), Tsume cries over his body.  Tsume is the last of the pack to remain standing with Kiba in the final battle with Darcia in the OVA. He is killed after Darcia rips open his side and legs. Before dying, he tells Kiba to go on and, as soon as Kiba leaves, whispers, "Let's meet again, next time, in Paradise..." before letting out a death howl. At the end of the OVA, Tsume is seen in his human form riding a motorcycle in a city.
Kenta Miyake felt Tsume was all about appearances and notes that Tsume always speaks in a harsh manner such as talking down to Kiba, casually dismissing Toboe, and seems to ignore Hige all together. However, he also felt that despite Tsume's seemingly tough nature, that he was the most naive of the pack and the most timid. Miyake felt as if he was Tsume's father, "kindly watching over him" and he used those feelings to guide the way he depicted the character.

Hige (ヒゲ; lit. 'Whiskers')
Voiced by: Akio Suyama (Japanese); Joshua Seth (English, Bandai Visual dub)
Hige is a Mexican wolf and the third wolf character to be introduced in the series. He seems to know how to function the best in human society, and gets along well with all the members of the pack. He tends to use his intuition more than the others. He starts off as a laid back joker, though he matures and becomes tense as the series goes on despite this, he still displays his comedic side. He has a superior sense of smell to the rest of the pack. Before Hige met Kiba, he was brainwashed into being Jaguara's lapdog by hunting and leading troops to other wolves. The collar he wears is actually a tag/transmitter that causes him to be under constant surveillance. It also appears to be the tag that controlled him, since he was plagued with constant migraines in Jaguara's city just before it was shot off by a soldier. At least 22 other wolves were collared in this way (a soldier inspecting his collar refers to him as "Number 23"), and many of the others were killed after returning to the city as seen when Tsume discovers a hall filled with stuffed wolves similar to Hige. He holds a very close relationship with Blue, convincing her to join the pack and promising not to let her die alone. Near the end of the anime, he is gravely wounded by Jaguara, but manages to escape the city with the others and joins them as they walk towards an unknown yet hopeful future. During the final battle in the OVA with wolf-formed Darcia, Blue is defeated and Hige tries to save her, only to be mortally wounded by Darcia. With Blue dead, and near death himself, Hige convinces Tsume to put him out of his misery by crushing his neck. He tells Tsume, "Let's meet again...next time in Paradise." Before the grey wolf reluctantly puts him down. After Earth's regeneration at the end of the OVA, Hige is seen in a city in his human form eating a hot dog, symbolic of his characteristic hunger. It is never really confirmed if Hige intentionally leads the pack to Jaguara's city or if his subconsciousness was manipulated by the collar, which only revealed that nature to Hige once he was inside Jaguara's city. Also, Tsume ends up making a number of direct and indirect remarks about Hige being a traitor after Jaguara's troops capture them.   Voice actor Akio Suyama notes that Hige is a humorous character whose actions and lines often break the tension in an otherwise serious series. This made it fun for him to play the character.

Toboe (トオボエ, Tōboe; lit. 'Howling')
Voiced by: Hiroki Shimowada (Japanese); Mona Marshall (English, Bandai Visual dub), Candice Moore (English, Animax Asia dub) Toboe is a red wolf and the fourth wolf to be introduced. He is the youngest of the group, often acting more like a puppy than a wolf. Toboe was raised as a pet by "Granny", an elderly woman, who he accidentally killed in an unrestrained act of playfulness. The silver bracelets are all he has left of her. Toboe maintains an affection for humans that none of the other wolves can understand (with the exception of Blue). On one occasion, Toboe saves Quent from freezing to death in the snow by sharing his body warmth with him, and is later grateful to discover that Quent has survived despite the fact that Quent immediately tries to shoot him. Toboe looks up to Tsume and usually follows him when the group splits up. He also seems to have the best hearing out of all of them. He often is more shy than bold, although when the pack is in dire threat his rage exceeds beyond his timid nature, propelling him ravenously into battle.   An example of Toboe's courage is when the pack comes under attack by a large walrus, the last of his kind. As the others attack the large animal, Toboe stands frozen with fear until something 'snaps' and he lunges at the walrus's eye, refusing to let go until the beast throws itself into an iceberg, killing it. The walrus, dying, then offers its body to the wolves as food; and Toboe is rewarded by Kiba to eat first. Near the end of the anime, he is captured by Jagura's forces and imprisoned in her fortress along with Tsume, but Cheza's song empowers them to fight back and break free. By the end, he escapes along with his friends as the city collapses and joins them as they walk towards an uncertain yet hopeful future. In the OVA, Toboe unsuccessfully attempts to protect Quent from Darcia and both he and Quent are mortally wounded. Realizing that it was Toboe who saved him previously, Quent finally understands that wolves are not evil and comforts the dying wolf as his own life ebbs away. As he dies, Toboe has a vision of Paradise in which he is reunited with Granny and able to run and play as a pup. Later Tsume spends some time alone with Toboe's body and drops his tough façade to weep for his friend, even confessing the truth about his scar. After Earth's regeneration in the end of the OVA, Toboe is seen in a city in his human form holding an abandoned kitten.   Hiroki Shimowada, who voices the character, felt that though Toboe was "young and inexperienced", he also acted as the go between for the other three, giving them a buffer or a bond as needed. He suggests that the other wolves keep him around because they view him as a kind son.

Blue (ブルー, Burū)
Voiced by: Mayumi Asano (Japanese); Jessica Straus (English, Bandai Visual dub), Sarah Hauser (English, Animax Asia dub)
Blue is a blue wolfdog who was a pet to the family of Quent Yaiden. After the destruction of her home and family in the village of Kyrios, she travels with Quent, hunting wolves under the belief that they were responsible for the tragedy. She lives her life as a pet dog, unaware of her wolf bloodline. Upon meeting Cheza, the wolf in her is awakened, and unable to continue hunting her own kind, she leaves Quent to travel with the pack to Paradise. She grows especially close to Hige, later telling him she will follow him wherever he goes. At the end of the anime, she happily reunites with Quent as she tells him the truth of what happened to their home and escape the city as it collapses; possibly joining Kiba and the rest of their friends as they move towards a new future. In the final episode of the OVA, after Quent's death, Blue is killed by Darcia while trying to protect Cheza, but seems content to have been with Hige at the end. She is the only wolf character not to be seen after the Earth's regeneration. It is unknown whether or not the abandoned kitten with blue eyes is her.


== Nobles ==

Darcia (ダルシア, Darushia)
Voiced by: Takaya Kuroda (Japanese); Steve Blum (English, Bandai Visual dub)The third generation of the Darcia family of Nobles, who were said to be cursed after Darcia the First disappeared into "Paradise". Due to his grandfather's curse, Darcia is now plagued with the eye of a wolf. He seeks to use Cheza to somehow revive his lover Hamona, who has been stricken with "Paradise sickness", in which her soul is "taken by Paradise", causing her to fall into a coma. But Hamona's death changes that plan, with Darcia mysteriously disappearing after the destruction of his keep until he resurfaces at Jaguara's city, discovering that she (being Hamona's older sister) caused her death out of jealousy so she could have him to herself. Despite being poisoned by Jaguara, he still manages to slay her. He then goes deeper into the Black City as it collapses and presumably dies. In the OVA, Darcia instead escapes and his poisoning is never mentioned. After avenging Hamona's death, he discards his love for her, saying that "she is nowhere now", and assumes the form of a giant, dark-furred wolf. In this continuity, Darcia claims to descended from a clan of wolves that chose to become completely human. He viciously kills off all the members of Kiba's pack one by one. He shoots Quent while still in human form, and in wolf form defeats and kills Blue, Hige, and Tsume, as none of them are a match for him in his wolf form. After eliminating Kiba's pack and grievously wounding Kiba, he ends up being poisoned by Cheza's blood from biting her and walks towards what he believes to be the entrance to Paradise only to be incinerated, leaving his wolf's eye behind to taint the new world. Darcia serves as the main antagonist of the OVA.

Jaguara (ジャガラ卿, Jagara-kyō)
Voiced by: Atsuko Tanaka (Japanese); Mary Elizabeth McGlynn (English, Bandai Visual dub)Part of one of the three feuding Noble Families, Jaguara fell in love with Darcia to the point of obsession but was rejected by him for her younger twin sister, something which she never forgave Hamona for. She began to set up an ancient spell used by Lord Darcia the First to create a 'Noble's Paradise' to please and lure Darcia to her, abducting Cheza from Darcia's Keep. In the process, she ordered the murder of Hamona and soon struck out to eliminate the wolves, who were heading to her domain. But her plan ended in failure when her plans were thwarted by the wolves. She was slain by Darcia while her city fell into chaos. There's a possibility that Jaguara and Hamona are identical twins since Jaguara bears a striking resemblance to her sister when she's not wearing her armor. She serves as the main antagonist of the anime.


== Humans ==

Cheza (チェザ, Cheza)
Voiced by: Arisa Ogasawara (Japanese); Sherry Lynn (English, Bandai Visual dub), Andrea Kwan (English, Animax Asia dub) Cheza is the Flower Maiden (花の娘, hana no musume), a girl who was artificially created from a Lunar Flower by the noble Darcia the First using the lost art of alchemy. She is the key to opening Paradise. First appearing in a state of suspended animation within a scientific research lab, she was awakened by the smell of wolf's blood spilled in the brief fight between Tsume and Kiba. After the wolves steal her away, she is pursued by various other characters, forcing the pack to protect her constantly. She shares a special bond with the wolves, especially Kiba, showing the ability to heal their wounds or sing them to sleep, and suffering when they are injured. Her eyes are pink with dark red sclera, and she is implied to be blind during a scene in which she almost walks over the edge of a cliff but regains her footing apparently by touch. As a flower, Cheza becomes weak when deprived of water and sunlight. In the OVA, her blood is poisonous when ingested (which leads to Darcia's downfall after he bites her in the OVA). At the gates of Paradise in the OVA, she 'blooms' into an elongated, tree-like form before dissolving into thousands of spherical seeds which begin sprouting more Lunar Flowers. After Earth's reincarnation, a Lunar Flower is seen sitting in an alleyway and it is implied to be Cheza. In both the anime and the OVA, she often refers to herself in third person, as she calls herself "this one".

Hubb Lebowski (ハブ・リボウスキー, Habu Ribōsukī)
Voiced by: Mitsuru Miyamoto (Japanese); Bob Buchholz (English, Bandai Visual dub) Hubb Lebowski is a police detective and ex-husband of Cher Degré. He is still very much in love with Cher and seeks to protect her, often half-jokingly asking if they still have a chance together. After Quent shot Kiba, he was detained and questioned by the police, including Hubb, at which point Quent said that the animal he had shot was no mere dog, but a wolf. After hearing this Hubb begins to obsess over the matter. He finds a copy of the banned Book of the Moon in Cher's apartment after she leaves to hunt Cheza with a commander of the army employed by Lord Orkam. Reading through the book, Hubb becomes completely and utterly enthralled with wolves and teams up with Quent as he continues his search for Cher. He reunites with Cher and helps her get Cheza out of Jagura's keep at the end of the anime and together they leave towards an unknown future. His death occurs in the OVA when he commits suicide while climbing up a cliff in the next to last episode. A violent earthquake loosens his hold and, rather than have anyone risk themselves to save him, he lets go. In his final moments he is seen placing a cigar in his mouth and inhaling the scent of Cher from her scarf.

Cher Degré (シェール・ドゥグレ, Shēru Dugure)
Voiced by: Kaho Koda (Japanese); Kari Wahlgren (English, Bandai Visual dub), Andrea Kwan (Animax Asia dub) Cher Degré is a scientist involved in studying Cheza. She is fascinated by Cheza and desires to understand her and her purpose. She and Hubb were once married, but divorced after her work with Cheza became more important than their marriage.  She spends time for a while with Lord Darcia who divulges in her the history of his family and his motives surrounding Cheza.  It's unknown exactly why Darcia chooses to open up to her.  She is reunited later on with Hubb who had spent the first part of the series searching for her, where after it is implied she still loves him. Together, they help the wolves rescue Cheza from Jagura's keep in the end of the anime and escape in the way of a new future. In the first episode of the OVA, Cher dies when the car she was riding in flips over and then plummets down a cliff. Snowflakes fall as Hubb holds her dead body and weeps before laying her to rest in the freezing waters.

Quent Yaiden (クエント・ヤイデン, Kuento Yaiden)
Voiced by: Unsho Ishizuka (Japanese); Tom Wyner (English, Bandai Visual dub), Rik Thomas (English, Animax Asia dub) Quent Yaiden is an ex-sheriff from the town of Kyrios. The destruction of his village and the killing of his wife and son Russe by what he thought was a pack of wolves led to his deep and abiding hatred for wolves, which is rivaled only by his perpetual desire for a stiff drink. He lives a life on the go with only his dog, Blue, to keep him company and aid him in his pursuit of wolves to kill. Along the way, he grows disillusioned at seeing the world in its polluted state and even admits to the world being bad when his family was still around. Quent's suspicions of the existence of wolves is always scoffed at by those who believe wolves are extinct, but when he meets Toboe for the first time in Freeze City, his purpose is refueled. After Blue discovers her relations to the wolves, Quent struggles between his hatred for wolves and the newfound knowledge that they weren't responsible for the death of his family. He decides that Blue should not be his dog anymore, that she should be free. In the final episode of the anime, he reunites with Blue who reveals who she is by calling him "Pops" (the nickname everyone in his home often referred to him as) as the truth is known to them and they escape the collapsing city together to presumably meet up with the others as they proceed towards the new future. During a confrontation with Darcia in the OVA, Quent accidentally shoots and kills Toboe before being shot by Darcia. In his dying moments, he apologetically strokes Toboe, realizing that Toboe was the one to keep him from freezing to death earlier in the series. He dies with his arm around Toboe.


== Others ==

Leara (リアラ, Riara)
Voiced by: Eri Sendai (Japanese); Michelle Ruff (English, Bandai Visual dub) Leara is a Freeze Town girl who sees Toboe in his wolf form and feeds him a piece of sausage. Her past isn't shown in the series and she rarely appears after the recap episode 16. Toboe was seen to like her because of her hospitality and later sought her out in human form. However she discovers he is a wolf after he accidentally kills her pet falcon and reveals his true form by howling as he grieves.

Gehl (ゲイル, Geiru)
Voiced by: Koki Akaishi (Japanese); Brianne Siddall (English, Bandai Visual dub) Gehl
.He is a 16 year old boy but he looks younger Is one of the members of Tsume's group in Freeze City. He is a shy boy who attempts to be brave when Tsume told him to stand by in the second mission. Unfortunately in the group's last mission, Gehl falls off a bridge running from a rain of bullets. Tsume runs to catch him but the pain of being bitten dissolves Tsume's human illusion, and Gehl's scream causes Tsume to release his hold, letting Gehl fall to his death. Later his body is shown to Hubb Lebowski to be examined, and he appears again in the recap episodes.

Lady Harmona
Voiced by: Maaya Sakamoto (Japanese); Peggy O'Neal (English, Bandai Visual dub) Lady Harmona is Lady Jaguara's beautiful and gentle younger sister, whom Darcia fell deeply in love. Jaguara has hated Harmona ever since, because Jaguara loved Darcia too. Harmona eventually fell victim to "Paradise Sickness", where her soul began slipping into Paradise, leaving her in a comatose state. She became Darcia's motivation behind creating Cheza, hoping to use her to bring Harmona back to him. She is eventually killed by Jaguara's forces during their assault on Darcia's keep, leaving Darcia  broken.

Mew (ミュウ, Myū)
Voiced by: Yuna Inamura (Japanese); Julie Maddalena (English, Bandai Visual dub) Mew is a caracal who Kiba meets at the Garden of Eternity in and they become good friends in Episode 19. She cannot remember who or where she is and cannot leave the Garden due to having been there so long. Later, when Kiba's spirit returns to the pack without her, they joke about Kiba meeting Mew, as Tsume says that "I thought you seemed less uptight" though Toboe doesn't know what they mean by that.


== Reception ==
The characters of Wolf's Rain have received praise and criticism from several publications for anime, manga, and other media. Sci Fi Weekly's Tasha Robinson initially found the interactions between the wolves to be tiresome and repetitive. However, they praised the series for having the wolves clearly act as wolves, noting that "lot of the series' most interesting dynamics come from wolves behaving like wolves in human environments —breaking up into packs (complete with obvious hierarchies), challenging each other for dominance, only incidental respect towards humans, fighting to defend their turf and so forth."


== See also ==

List of Wolf's Rain episodes


== References ==

Nordsachsen 1 is an electoral constituency (German: Wahlkreis) represented in the Landtag of Saxony. It elects one member via first-past-the-post voting. Under the constituency numbering system, it is designated as constituency 33. It is within the district of Nordsachsen.


== Geography ==
The constituency comprises the towns of Delitzsch and Schkeuditz, and the municipalities of Krostitz, Löbnitz, Rackwitz, Schönwölkau, and Wiedemar within the district of Nordsachsen.
There were 50,244 eligible voters in 2024.


== Members ==


== Election results ==


=== 2024 election ===


=== 2019 election ===


=== 2014 election ===


== References ==


== See also ==
Politics of Saxony
Landtag of Saxony

Mario Besesti (20 November 1894 – 21 June 1968) was an Italian actor and voice actor.


== Biography ==
Besesti began a career acting on stage and screen in 1932. He made his film debut in 1938 and among his most popular filmography includes the 1949 film The Mill on the Po. Besesti was also well known as a voice dubber. Because of his strong voice and large build, he usually dubbed actors with the same stature such as Charles Laughton, Edward Arnold, Thomas Mitchell, Raymond Massey, Sydney Greenstreet, Charles Coburn and many more.
Besesti was considered to be one of Italy's most significant, well-known dubbers during the Golden Ages. He worked for the Cooperativa Doppiatori Cinematografici and made collaborations with other dubbers which included Gualtiero De Angelis, Lauro Gazzolo, Carlo Romano, Wanda Tettoni and Nino Pavese.
Besesti was also active in the Italian dubs of some of the early Disney animated films. He dubbed Stromboli in Pinocchio, The Huntsman in Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs and Trusty in Lady and the Tramp.


== Death ==
Besesti died in Rome on 21 June 1968 at the age of 73. He was buried at Campo Verano.


== Filmography ==


=== Cinema ===


== Voice work ==


=== Dubbing ===


==== Films (Animation, Italian dub) ====


==== Films (Live action, Italian dub) ====
Phineas V. Lambert in If I Had a Million
Quasimodo in The Hunchback of Notre Dame
Sir Humphrey Pengallan in Jamaica Inn
William Kidd in Captain Kidd
Albert Lory in This Land Is Mine
Uncle William "Billy" Bailey in It's a Wonderful Life
Michael Howland in Within These Walls
Tom Blue in The Black Swan
Thad Vail in High Barbaree
Reginald "Rags" Barnaby in Destry
Jim Taylor in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington
Amory Stilham in Mrs. Parkington
Judge Wilkins in Dear Wife
Penrod Biddel in City That Never Sleeps
Jimmy Norton in Meet John Doe
Wolf Larsen in The Sea Wolf
James R. Judson in From Here to Eternity
Pablo in For Whom the Bell Tolls
Pancho Villa in Viva Villa!
Max Fabian in All About Eve


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Mario Besesti at Wikimedia Commons

Mario Besesti at IMDb
Mario Besesti at Behind The Voice Actors

Reza Jabbari (Persian: رضا جباری, born August 28, 1977, in Tehran) is a retired Iranian footballer.
In 2000, he joined Persepolis with his teammate and friend in Bahman, Hassan Khanmohammadi.


== Club career ==


=== Club career statistics ===


== Honours ==
Persepolis
Iran Pro League: 2001–02


== References ==

Reza Jabbari at National-Football-Teams.com

Isabella "Belle" McAlpine Moore (23 October 1894 – 7 March 1975), later known by her married name Belle Cameron, was a Scottish  competitive swimmer who represented Great Britain in the Olympics.
At the 1912 Summer Olympics in Stockholm, Sweden, Moore won a gold medal as a member of the first-place British women's team in the 4×100-metre freestyle relay, together with teammates Jennie Fletcher, Annie Speirs and Irene Steer.  The British women set a new world record in the event of 5:52.8, beating the German and Austrian women's relay teams by a wide margin.  Swedish King Gustav V presented Moore and her teammates with their gold medals and Olympic laurels.
Moore was trained as a longer-distance swimmer, but only 100-metre swimming events were available for women at the 1912 Olympics; she was eliminated in the semi-finals of the women's 100-metre freestyle.  At 17 years and 226 days old, she remains the youngest British woman to win an Olympic gold medal; she was also the only Scottish woman to win an Olympic gold medal in swimming until the 2020 Tokyo Olympics when Kathleen Dawson also won gold in the mixed 4 x 100 medley relay.
Moore was born the eighth child of nine in her family.  She started training at an early age and was a member of the Glasgow Premier Ladies Swimming Club, which trained at Govanhill Baths. Another member was Scotland's first world swimming champion, Etta Mackay.
By the age of 17, Moore already worked as a swimming instructor.  In 1919, she married George Cameron, a naval architect; together, they moved to Maryland, United States, where Moore gave birth to a daughter, Doris, and son, George.  She spent the rest of her life in Maryland where she taught swimming to thousands of children.  She was posthumously inducted into the International Swimming Hall of Fame as an "Honor Pioneer Swimmer" in 1989.


== See also ==
List of members of the International Swimming Hall of Fame
List of Olympic medalists in swimming (women)
World record progression 4 × 100 metres freestyle relay


== References ==


== External links ==

Belle Moore at the International Swimming Hall of Fame
Belle Moore at Olympics.com
Belle Moore at Team GB
Belle Moore at Olympedia
Belle Moore at the Scottish Sports Hall of Fame

The Lotus case was an international legal case involving France and Turkey in front of the Permanent Court of International Justice. The case is known for establishing the so-called "Lotus principle" in international law.


== The case ==


=== Background ===
On 2 August 1926 the S.S. Lotus, a French steamer, collided with the S.S. Bozkourt, a Turkish steamer, in a region just north of Mytilene (Greece). As a result of the accident, eight Turkish nationals aboard in the Bozkourt drowned when the vessel was torn apart by the Lotus.
Turkey proceeded to arrest the Lotus's captain, Mr. Demons; he was subsequently charged and condemned by the Turkish Courts for the damage and the deaths caused by the accident.


=== Appeal to the PCIJ ===
France protested against Turkish actions, claiming that, since the crime was committed in high seas, any charge against Mr. Demons belonged to the flag State jurisdiction, i.e. to the French judiciary.
On 7 September 1927, the case was presented before the Permanent Court of International Justice, the judicial branch of the League of Nations, the predecessor of the United Nations. France accused Turkey of illegally arresting Mr. Demons in violation of international law.
France proffered case law, through which it attempted to show at least state practice in support of its position. However, those cases involved ships that both flew the flag of the same state. The Court, therefore, by a bare majority, rejected France's position, stating that there was no rule to that effect in international law.


=== Lotus principle ===
The Lotus principle or Lotus approach, usually considered a foundation of international law, says that sovereign states may act in any way they wish so long as they do not contravene an explicit prohibition. The application of this principle – an outgrowth of the Lotus case – to future incidents raising the issue of jurisdiction over people on the high seas was changed by article 11 of the Convention on the High Seas. The convention, held in Geneva in 1958, laid emphasis on the fact that only the flag state or the state of which the alleged offender was a national had jurisdiction over sailors regarding incidents occurring on the high seas.


=== Subsequent evolution of international law ===
This "flag state principle" has since also been implemented in United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), e.g. in article 92 and, in regards to enforcement of environmental legislation, article 217(1). 
The principle has also been used in arguments against the reasons of the United States of America for opposing the existence of the International Criminal Court (ICC).


== Mahmut Esat Bozkurt ==
In the court the Turkish side was represented by Mahmut Esat Bozkurt, the Minister of Justice. In 1934, when Turkey adopted the formal surname system, Mahmut Esat chose the surname Bozkurt as a reminiscence of the case.


== See also ==
Everything which is not forbidden is allowed
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea


== References ==


== Resources ==
The Case of The S.S. Lotus - full text of the judgment
The Case of The S.S. Lotus - combined French and English version
The Case of The S.S. Lotus - Spanish version / Versión en español

Rhinagrion is a genus of damselflies in the family Philosinidae. There are about 10 described species in Rhinagrion, found mainly in southeast Asia.


== Species ==
These 10 species belong to the genus Rhinagrion:

Rhinagrion borneense (Selys, 1886)
Rhinagrion elopurae (McLachlan in Selys, 1886)
Rhinagrion hainanense Wilson & Reels, 2001
Rhinagrion macrocephalum (Selys, 1862)
Rhinagrion mima (Karsch, 1891)
Rhinagrion philippinum (Selys, 1882)
Rhinagrion reinhardi Kalkman & Villanueva, 2011
Rhinagrion schneideri Kalkman & Villanueva, 2011
Rhinagrion tricolor (Krüger, 1898)
Rhinagrion viridatum Fraser, 1938


== References ==

Carmen Elena Rendiles Martínez, SJC (11 August 1903 – 9 May 1977) María Carmen in religion and also known as Maria del Monte Carmelo Rendiles, was a Venezuelan Catholic religious sister who founded the congregation of the Servants of Jesus of Caracas. Rendiles first served in leadership for the Servants of the Eucharist in France, where she completed her novitiate, before returning to Venezuela to found her congregation in 1965. She was its first superior general. On October 19, 2025, she was canonized. In January 2026 Pope Leo XIV sought her intercession following the US raid on Venezuela.


== Life ==
Carmen Elena Rendiles Martínez was born on 11 August 1903 in Caracas as third of seven children to Ramiro Antonio Rendiles and Ana Antonia Martínez. Rendiles was born without a left arm and so was given a prosthetic arm which she had attached to her for her entire life. Her baptism was celebrated in the church of Santa Anna on 24 September 1903 and she received her Confirmation on 28 October 1905; she made her First Communion on 11 March 1911.

In 1918, Carmen felt her concrete call to the religious life. Her father died in the mid-1920s. In December 1926, religious from France arrived and Carmen took their arrival as a sign that she was to follow her vocation as part of their congregation so applied and received permission for admission. Rendiles joined the Servants of the Eucharist on 25 February 1927 and was sent for her novitiate to Toulouse, where she received the religious habit on 8 September 1927. Rendiles made her first vows on 8 September 1929 and made her perpetual vows on 8 September 1932. In 1945, she was made the superior for all the congregation's houses in Venezuela.
Rendiles founded the Servants of Jesus on 25 March 1965; the congregation received diocesan approval and support on 14 August 1969 from the Cardinal Archbishop of Caracas José Humberto Quintero Parra. She was the Superior General of the congregation she founded from 1969 when she was appointed until her death.
Rendiles died in mid-1977 in Caracas, due to influenza. In 2015 there were 94 religious in a total of 19 communities in both Venezuela and in Colombia.


== Beatification process ==
Rendiles was titled as a Servant of God in 1994 under Pope John Paul II and later named as Venerable under Pope Francis in 2013 upon the confirmation of her heroic virtue. Francis later confirmed a miracle attributed to her in late 2017; her beatification was celebrated in Caracas on 16 June 2018.
On 31 March 2025, Pope Francis announced the canonization of Rendiles. Upon canonization, Rendiles will be the first female saint from Venezuela. On 13 June, the date of her canonization was set for 19 October 2025. On 13 June 2025, in the first ordinary public consistory of Pope Leo XIV, it was decreed that Rendiles would be canonized on 19 October 2025. She was canonized along with José Gregorio Hernández, making them the first saints from Venezuela.


== References ==


== External links ==
Hagiography Circle
Saints SQPN
Official website Archived 2020-11-01 at the Wayback Machine
Catholic Youth Ministry
Santi e Beati

In differential geometry in mathematics, the Vafa–Witten equations are the gauge field equations of Vafa–Witten theory, which is obtained as a topologically twisted N = 4 supersymmetric Yang-Mills theory (TT N = 4 SYM) using the Vafa–Witten twist. The Vafa–Witten equations are formulated on four-dimensional manifolds (short 4-manifolds), representing spacetime in physics, and as partial differential equations depend on its smooth structure. Considering the moduli space of its solutions, which are all solutions up to gauge, meaning physical equivalence, therefore encodes informations about it, similar to the much more well-known Yang–Mills moduli space and Seiberg–Witten moduli space. The Vafa–Witten equations are named after Cumrun Vafa and Edward Witten.


== Topological twist ==
A topological twist is a choice for how the four-dimensional spin group 
  
    
      
        Spin
        ⁡
        (
        4
        )
        =
        SU
        ⁡
        (
        2
        )
        ×
        SU
        ⁡
        (
        2
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \operatorname {Spin} (4)=\operatorname {SU} (2)\times \operatorname {SU} (2)}
  
 acts on the canonical inclusion representation 
  
    
      
        
          4
        
        :
        SU
        ⁡
        (
        4
        )
        ↪
        
          GL
          
            4
          
        
        ⁡
        (
        
          C
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbf {4} \colon \operatorname {SU} (4)\hookrightarrow \operatorname {GL} _{4}(\mathbb {C} )}
  
 of the R-symmetry group, which relates the topology to the supersymmetry. The Vafa–Witten twist is then the splitting 
  
    
      
        (
        
          1
        
        ,
        
          2
        
        )
        ⊕
        (
        
          1
        
        ,
        
          2
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (\mathbf {1} ,\mathbf {2} )\oplus (\mathbf {1} ,\mathbf {2} )}
  
.


== Development ==
In 1988, Edward Witten developed topological quantum field theory (TQFT), a contribution listed for his Fields Medal in 1990, and used it to showed that Donaldson theory, a contribution listed for Simon Donaldson's Fields Medal in 1986, is a TT N = 2 SYM. In 1994, Nathan Seiberg and Edward Witten then constructed the dual TT N = 2 SYM, known as Seiberg–Witten theory. Both theories were very successful in describing smooth 4-manifolds. Later development then shifted from the N = 2 case with two inequivalent twists to the N = 4 case with three inequivalent twists. Besides the Vafa–Witten twist, these are the Donaldson–Witten twist (
  
    
      
        (
        
          1
        
        ,
        
          2
        
        )
        ⊕
        (
        
          1
        
        ,
        
          1
        
        )
        ⊕
        (
        
          1
        
        ,
        
          1
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (\mathbf {1} ,\mathbf {2} )\oplus (\mathbf {1} ,\mathbf {1} )\oplus (\mathbf {1} ,\mathbf {1} )}
  
) and the Kapustin–Witten twist (
  
    
      
        (
        
          2
        
        ,
        
          1
        
        )
        ⊕
        (
        
          1
        
        ,
        
          2
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (\mathbf {2} ,\mathbf {1} )\oplus (\mathbf {1} ,\mathbf {2} )}
  
).


== Field equations ==
The bosonic fields of Vafa–Witten theory are a gauge field 
  
    
      
        A
      
    
    {\displaystyle A}
  
 with field strength 
  
    
      
        F
      
    
    {\displaystyle F}
  
, a scalar field 
  
    
      
        Φ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Phi }
  
 and a self-dual 2-form 
  
    
      
        B
      
    
    {\displaystyle B}
  
. The Vafa–Witten equations are then given by:

  
    
      
        
          F
          
            μ
            ν
          
          
            +
          
        
        +
        
          
            1
            2
          
        
        [
        C
        ,
        
          B
          
            μ
            ν
          
          
            +
          
        
        ]
        +
        
          
            1
            4
          
        
        [
        
          B
          
            μ
            κ
          
          
            +
          
        
        ,
        
          B
          
            ν
            λ
          
          
            +
          
        
        ]
        
          g
          
            κ
            λ
          
        
        =
        0
        ;
      
    
    {\displaystyle F_{\mu \nu }^{+}+{\frac {1}{2}}[C,B_{\mu \nu }^{+}]+{\frac {1}{4}}[B_{\mu \kappa }^{+},B_{\nu \lambda }^{+}]g^{\kappa \lambda }=0;}
  

  
    
      
        
          D
          
            μ
          
        
        C
        +
        
          D
          
            ν
          
        
        
          B
          
            μ
            ν
          
          
            +
          
        
        =
        0.
      
    
    {\displaystyle D_{\mu }C+D^{\nu }B_{\mu \nu }^{+}=0.}
  


== See also ==
N = 1 supersymmetric Yang–Mills theory
Seiberg–Witten equations
Vafa–Witten theorem


== Literature ==
Tanaka, Yuuji (2013). "Some boundedness properties of solutions to the Vafa-Witten equations on closed four-manifolds". Q. J. Math. 68: 1203–1225. arXiv:1308.0862. doi:10.1093/qmath/hax015.
Tanaka, Yuuji (2014). "A perturbation and generic smoothness of the Vafa-Witten moduli spaces on closed symplectic four-manifolds". Glasg. Math. J. 61 (2): 471–486. arXiv:1410.1691. doi:10.1017/S0017089518000307.
Clifford Henry Taubes (2017). "The behavior of sequences of solutions to the Vafa-Witten equations". arXiv:1702.04610 [math.DG].
Manshot, Jan (2017). "Vafa-Witten theory and iterated integrals of modular forms". Communications in Mathematical Physics. 371 (2): 787–831. arXiv:1709.10098. doi:10.1007/s00220-019-03389-5.
Manshot, Jan (2023). "Four-Manifold Invariants and Donaldson-Witten Theory". arXiv:2312.14709 [hep-th].


== References ==


== External links ==
Vafa-Witten equations on nLab

A royal household or imperial household  is the residence and administrative headquarters in ancient and post-classical monarchies, and papal household for popes, and formed the basis for the general government of the country as well as providing for the needs of the sovereign and their relations. It is the core of the royal court, though a court includes many courtiers who are not directly employed by the monarch as part of the household.
Traditionally there often have been large numbers of employees in the household, strictly differentiated by rank, from nobles with highly sought-after positions that gave close access to the monarch, to all the usual servants such as cooks, footmen, and maids. Traditionally the household typically includes military forces providing security.  Specialists such as artists, clock-makers and poets might be given a place in the household, often by appointing them as valet de chambre or the local equivalent.
Among many of these households there are certain great offices which have become, in course of time, merely hereditary. In most cases, as the name of the office would suggest, they were held by those who discharged personal functions about the sovereign. Gradually, in ways or for reasons which might vary in each individual case, the office alone survived, the duties either ceasing to be necessary or being transferred to officers of less exalted station.
In the modern period, royal households have evolved into entities which are variously differentiated from national governments. Most modern households have become merely titular. An example of a present-day royal household that employs hundreds of people, with many job descriptions, is the household of Charles III.


== Asia ==


=== China ===


=== Japan ===
In Japan, the Imperial Household Agency (宮内庁, Kunaichō) is the agency within the Government of Japan responsible for supporting the Emperor and the Imperial Family as well as keeping the Privy Seal and Great Seal of Japan. 
The Agency is headed by a director-general, who is assisted by the Cabinet-appointed deputy director. The internal organisation of the Agency can be seen below.

The Grand Steward's Secretariat
Board of Chamberlains
Emperor Emeritus' Household
Crown Prince's Household
Board of Ceremonies
Archives and Mausolea Department
Maintenance and Works Department
Auxiliary organs of the Agency include:

Office of the Shoshoin Treasure House
Imperial Stock Farm
Local branch office:

Kyoto Office


=== Thailand ===


== Europe ==
The royal households of such of European monarchies have a continuous history since medieval times. 


=== Austria ===


=== Francia ===


=== France ===


=== Germany ===


==== Prussia ====
*1. Supreme Officers of the Court (Oberste Hofchargen) - honorary functions
1.1. The Grand Chamberlain (Oberst-Kämmerer)
1.2. The Grand Cup-Bearer (Oberst-Schenk)
1.3. The Grand Steward (Oberst-Truchseß)
1.4. The Grand Marshal (Oberst-Marschall)
1.5. The Grand Master of the Hunt (Oberst-Jägermeister)
2. Chief Officers of the Household (Oberhofchargen)
2.0. The Premier Marshal of the Household (Oberhof- und Hausmarschall, i. e. chief executive officer of the court)
2.1. The Premier Master of Ceremonies (Ober-Zeremonienmeister)
2.2. The Premier Master of the Robes (Ober-Gewandkämmerer)
2.3. The Premier Cellarer (Ober-Mundschenk)
2.4. The Premier Master of the Horses and Mews (Ober-Stallmeister)
2.5. The Premier Master of the Hunt (Ober-Jägermeister)
2.6. The Premier Captain of the Palace Guard (Ober-Schloßhauptmann)
2.7. The Premier Master of the Kitchen (Ober-Küchenmeister)
2.8. The Superintendent general of the Theaters (Generalintendant der Schauspiele)


==== Mannheim (Electors Palatinate) ====
The Grand Master of the Household (Obristhofmeister)
Stewards (Truchsesse)
The Master of the Music (Hofkapellmeister)
The Scientist of the Court (Librarian, Masters of the Collections)
The Artists of the Court
The medical staff
The Grand Chamberlain (Obristkämmerer)
Court's Chamberlains (Hofkämmerer)
Life Offices
The Grand Marshal of the Household (Obristhofmarschall)
The Master of the Larder
The Master of the Cellar
The Master of the Tablecloth
The Master of the Silver and China
The Master of Kitchen
The Master of the Pastry
The Grand Master of the Mews (Obriststallmeister)
Court's Fourriers
The Grand Master of the Hunt (Obristjägermeister)
The Superintendent of the Court's Music


=== Russia ===


=== Spain ===


=== Sweden ===


=== United Kingdom ===


=== Vatican ===


== North America ==


=== Canada ===


== See also ==
Medieval household


== References ==


== External links ==
The British Monarchy - Royal Household

The Gunnar Mine was an active uranium mine in northern Saskatchewan, Canada, located approximately 25 kilometres (16 mi) southwest of the community of Uranium City and approximately 600 kilometres (370 mi) north of Saskatoon. This mine is situated on the Crackingstone Peninsula on the north shore of Lake Athabasca in the Beaverlodge Uranium District.
Over its lifetime, this mine produced 5,000,000 t (4,900,000 long tons; 5,500,000 short tons) of uranium ore and around 4,400,000 t (4,300,000 long tons; 4,900,000 short tons) of mining tailings.
In 2000, the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission first visited the site to begin the remediation project of this abandoned mine.


== History ==

The Gunnar deposit was discovered in July 1952, and the mine operated as both an open pit (1955–1961) and underground (1957–1963). The mine ceased production in 1963.
The Gunnar Mine headframe was demolished on August 4, 2011 but not decommissioned in any meaningful way. This led to a significant environmental remediation project funded by the Government of Canada. As of 2020, the mine was being decommissioned by the Saskatchewan Research Council who have a license to operate the site until 2024.
In 2019, the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission inspection found overall good performance, but some errors with regards to controlling radioactive zones and labelling radioactive materials were found. These non-compliant acts were described as having "low safety significance," but issued enforcement notices
As of 2020, the mine was being decommissioned by the Saskatchewan Research Council who have a license to operate the site until 2024.


== Construction ==
This uranium deposit was discovered in 1952 and shortly after, in 1954 construction of a town, mill, and uranium mine began. Construction in such a remote location proved to be difficult for this mining town. In 1954, aircraft landed on frozen lakes nearby to survey the area and soon after a landing strip was dedicated to this mining site. Freight by air is significantly more expensive than by water. This meant that the mine had to accumulate a years worth of ore before the boat and barge season could begin due to ice and winter freeze. Due to this, Gunnar developed their own dedicated shallow draft tugboat to ship goods along a 440 km (270 mi) route in Alberta. This however, was only practical for about 15 weeks per year due to the winter freeze. The Gunnar Mine found that their operational cost were more than double than of similar mines in the south.


== Geology ==

The Gunnar uranium deposit is located in the Athabasca Basin. This basin is a large geological structure characterized by its oval shape. This basin sits atop deformed and metamorphosed Archean rock. Uranium deposits can be found near on this basin and are formed through several stages of concentration through the movement of groundwater. The Gunnar uranium deposit occurred in Precambrian altered granitic gneiss. Pitchblende or uraninite was mined to a depth of 425 m (1,394 ft) between 1955 and 1963.


== Environmental remediation ==
After its closure in the 1960's, Gunnar Mine was abandoned with little work done to remediate the site from environmental harm. Both the Government of Canada and Government of Saskatchewan funded clean up and remediation projects which were expected to take 8 years total. This remediation project was followed by 10 to 15 years of monitoring. The provincial and federal government regulate the Gunnar Mine because of the large quantities of tailings and waste rock generated by this mine. These government parties created detailed environmental impact assessments in efforts to plan for remediation. Currently, the remediation options for the Gunnar Mine include deep lake disposal of tailings, open pit disposal of tailings which would then be filled with water, or covering the open pit filled with tailings then covering it to seal it off from the environment. In addition to the mining waste products, this mine also includes buildings and facilities for the 800 people who worked there. These buildings contain asbestos which will also need to be disposed of in a proper manner. In 2010, many of the buildings and facilities remained intact and in October of 2011 the demolition order was completed.


== See also ==
List of mines in Saskatchewan
Eldorado, Saskatchewan
Lorado Mine
Uranium ore deposits


== References ==


== External links ==
"2007-068, SRC, rehabilitation of the former Gunnar mine site". Government of Saskatchewan. Archived from the original on January 13, 2015. Retrieved January 13, 2015.
"Saskatchewan Makes Recommendations on Former Uranium Mine Sites". Government of Saskatchewan. Archived from the original on June 11, 2011. Retrieved October 25, 2009.
"MINING: Quick Facts". Canadian Parks and Wilderness Society - Saskatchewan Chapter. Archived from the original on April 29, 2010. Retrieved October 25, 2009.
"Gunnar". Cleanup of Abandoned Northern Sites (CLEANS). Retrieved December 12, 2009.

Sri Lankans in France refer to residents and citizens of Sri Lankan ancestry, who were born in or immigrated to France legally and illegally. The estimated population of Sri Lankans in France is 52,300.


== History ==
Although most of immigration from Sri Lanka started during the Sri Lankan Civil War, there have been a presence of Sri Lankans in France since the early 20th century since the times of  Ceylon. Ceylonese in high positions often went to Europe to study, tour and visit, mostly in England, but also France such as that of Sir John Kotelawala. There have been Ceylonese who fought alongside the British on the Western Front (areas of present-day Belgium, France and Luxembourg) during WW1.
Since the Sri Lankan Civil War the issue of illegal Sri Lankan immigration is a topic of concern for France.


== Demographics ==
The Sri Lankan population in France is estimated at approximately 52,300. However, the actual number is difficult to ascertain since statistics by ethnicity or religious denomination are prohibited in France.


== Organisations ==
The Sri Lankan Diaspora have created a number of associations which organise Sri Lankan festivals, cultural functions and sports events for the Sri Lankan community.


== Notable people ==
Antonythasan Jesuthasan
Sirima
Tampalawela Dhammaratana


== See also ==
Asian diasporas in France
Sri Lankan diaspora
Immigration to France


== References ==


== External links ==
Embassy of Sri Lanka in France
THE CHARM OF LITTLE JAFFNA
“Leveraging Remittance for Socio-Economic Development in Sri Lanka”

Tomoyasu Hotei (布袋 寅泰, Hotei Tomoyasu; born February 1, 1962), also known simply as Hotei ( HOH-tay), is a Japanese musician, singer-songwriter, composer, record producer and actor. With a career spanning more than 40 years, Hotei claims record sales of over 40 million copies and has collaborated with artists from around the world. Hotei first rose to prominence in the 1980s as the guitarist for Boøwy, one of Japan's most popular rock bands, before starting a solo career.
In 2003, he was ranked number 70 on HMV's list of the 100 most important Japanese pop acts. He ranked second in a 2011 poll on who the Japanese people thought was the best guitarist to represent Japan. An iconic artist in his native Japan, he moved to London in 2005 and continues to perform and release music globally. Hotei's song "Battle Without Honor or Humanity" has been featured in numerous films, commercials, video games, and events, including Quentin Tarantino's feature film Kill Bill.


== Early life ==
Hotei was born to a Korean father and a Russian-born Japanese mother. He first began playing the guitar in junior high school. Inspired by a poster of T. Rex frontman Marc Bolan, he stole money from his mother's purse and bought a Stratocaster at fourteen years old. His first band, Blue Film, finished runners up in a school contest to Death Penalty, a band led by Kyosuke Himuro. Hotei was expelled shortly before graduation, because, when warned about his long hair he replied "Jesus had long hair!"


== Career ==


=== Boøwy (1981–1988) ===

After being expelled from high school, Hotei traveled to Tokyo. He became better acquainted with Kyosuke Himuro and they decided to hold auditions for a new band, which in 1981 became the six-member Bōi (暴威; lit. "Tyranny"). After changing their name to Boøwy, they released their first album Moral in 1982. They then became a quartet and went on to become major stars in Japan, releasing six studio albums in six years, and even playing the Marquee Club in London in 1985. In 1986 they released their first million-selling album, Beat Emotion. In 1988, the year they broke up, they became the first male artists to have three number-one albums within a single year on the Oricon chart. In 2003, HMV ranked Boøwy at number 22 on their list of the "100 Most Important Japanese Pop Acts".


=== Auto-Mod, solo career and Complex (1982–2012) ===
While in Boøwy, Hotei and drummer Makoto Takahashi were also members of Auto-Mod from 1982 to 1984. They released their first album Requiem in August 1983. Hotei also contributed significantly to their second album, Deathtopia, but left the band before its January 1985 release.
After the 1988 break up of Boøwy, Hotei released his debut solo album Guitarhythm that year via EMI Records, and established himself as a solo artist. Throughout the 1990s Hotei's profile continued to grow in Japan, with regular album releases supported by major tours and with Hotei writing songs and producing for other artists, including collaborations with both Japanese and international artists. Hotei also made two albums with Koji Kikkawa as Complex, both of which went to number one in the national charts. Guitarhythm is currently his only album sung completely in English. Hotei has recorded most of his albums outside of Japan, largely in Europe, including in London, Berlin, and Montreux.
Hotei has recorded with many foreign musicians, including playing on The Stranglers Hugh Cornwell's 1993 solo album, on stage with David Bowie at the Nippon Budokan in 1996, and at the closing ceremony of the 1996 Summer Olympics with Michael Kamen. He later recorded Guitar Concerto with Kamen. He has worked with Andy Mackay of Roxy Music, guitarist Chris Spedding and Mike Edwards of Jesus Jones. Hotei also sometimes tours Europe, including at a number of major festivals. His regular drummer in recent years, Zachary Alford, has previously played with Bruce Springsteen and David Bowie. Hotei's 1998 album Supersonic Generation, recorded in part with Apollo 440 and Ofra Haza, was released in 14 European countries.
In addition to many bestselling solo albums, Hotei composed and performed the score for Hiroyuki Nakano's Samurai Fiction, as well as starring in the film. He composed three tracks for the American film Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas together with Ray Cooper. Hotei's best known song "Battle Without Honor or Humanity" was used in Quentin Tarantino's feature film Kill Bill, the PlayStation 2 version of Dance Dance Revolution SuperNova and Michael Bay's feature film Transformers. Hotei recorded a cover of John Lennon's "Happy Xmas (War Is Over)" for Merry Axemas: A Guitar Christmas, an instrumental guitar Christmas album featuring tracks from guitarists including Richie Sambora, Jeff Beck, Joe Perry, Eric Johnson, Steve Vai and Steve Morse.
Hotei collaborated with Char for the 2006 single "Stereocaster". The following year he, Char and Brian Setzer held a short joint tour.
On July 30 and 31, 2011, Hotei and Kikkawa reunited as Complex for two nights at the Tokyo Dome. All proceeds were donated to aid the victims of the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.
On February 1, 2012, Hotei performed a concert at the Saitama Super Arena to celebrate his 50th birthday. His Boøwy and Auto-Mod bandmate Makoto Takahashi appeared as a special guest and together they played Boøwy's "Justy" and "No. New York". Hotei made his directorial debut in April 2012, with the stage play Psychedelic Pain, which was written by Yukinojo Mori and for which Hotei wrote the music. On May 8, it was announced that Hotei would move to London in June, in hopes of starting an international career.


=== Relocating to London and international focus ===


==== 2012–2014 ====

After years of spending a great deal of time in the UK, Hotei and his family relocated fully to London in June 2012, primarily for Hotei to pursue his dream of an international career. Hotei played his first major show in the UK in December 2012 at The Roundhouse in London. In November 2013 Hotei played 2 headline shows, first at Shepherd's Bush Empire in London, and then at the Highline Ballroom in New York. In an interview with the Financial Times, Hotei commented, "Last year I turned 50...time goes quickly, it's my last chance to try and get my dream. I want to play all over the world."
On March 6, 2014, Hotei joined The Rolling Stones on stage during the final show of their tour in Japan. He was a surprise guest at their Tokyo Dome concert, playing the song "Respectable" before a crowd of 53,000 fans. Hotei's most famous song "Battle Without Honor or Humanity" was selected for a nationwide TV commercial in the UK for Buxton Water's "Naturally Pumped Up" campaign. The campaign launched in June 2014, with plans to run for six months.
Joined by band members Zachary Alford (drums), Tony Grey (bass), and Toshiyuki Kishi (keyboard/programming), Hotei played a series of private shows and summer festivals during June, July, and August 2014. This included appearances at England's Cornbury Festival, Switzerland's Montreux Jazz Festival, and the UK's Y Not Festival. An earlier warmup gig was held at The Lexington in London, and Hotei was also invited to perform solo as a special guest of Lord March during the Goodwood Festival of Speed. Live4Ever covered the Y Not Festival, describing Hotei as "undoubtedly the coolest man on site during his afternoon set on the main stage, performing instrumental sections fit for several people in his ability to flick between technically staggering solos and crunching guitar chords whilst jumping around the stage like an excitable Duracell rabbit."
During a brief trip back to Japan, Hotei played four sold-out shows at the Blue Note Tokyo in late August, and also performed at a private party for the launch of the new Lamborghini Huracán automobile. Hotei wrote and performed the theme song, "Trick Attack (Theme of Lupin The Third)", to the 2014 live-action film adaptation of the Lupin III manga. After spending much of the year writing and recording with a variety of collaborators, the album New Beginnings was released in Japan on October 1, 2014, the title a reflection of the new chapter in Hotei's career, after relocating to London. Iggy Pop contributed lyrics and vocals to two tracks on the album and Vula Malinga vocals to one.


==== 2015–2016 ====
Hotei's released the single "How The Cookie Crumbles" featuring Iggy Pop on vocals in June, the first single to be released from his forthcoming second English-language solo album Strangers, which was released by Spinefarm Records/Universal Music on October 16, 2015. It was his first album to be released globally outside Japan. It includes several songs released on New Beginnings. In addition to Pop, it also features Richard Kruspe from Rammstein, Matthew Tuck from Bullet for My Valentine, Noko and Shea Seger. The album release was accompanied by a performance at Islington Assembly Hall in London, with special guests Seger and Gary Stringer from British rock band Reef.
Hotei celebrated his 35th anniversary in music in 2016, which included 57 live shows in Japan in a variety of different venues, from small clubs to major arenas, and finishing with a 35-song performance at the Nippon Budokan in Tokyo on December 30. As well as his anniversary, Hotei continued to work internationally to support his Strangers album. In February 2016, Hotei performed showcases at Paradiso/Amsterdam, La Boule Noir/Paris and Cassiopeia/Berlin, with Noko on bass and Cliff Hewitt on drums. In July 2016 he performed live in Los Angeles for the first time, selling out The Troubadour, and also returned to Highline Ballroom in New York. A third single was released from the album, "Move It" featuring Richard Kruspe was released in April 2016, and a fourth, "Walking Through The Night" featuring Iggy Pop, was released in November.
Hotei contributed guitar to Zucchero Fornaciari's song "Ti voglio sposare" for the Italian singer's Black Cat album, which was released in April 2016, beginning a series of collaborations between the two artists which included Zucchero's first ever performances in Tokyo in May 2016, accompanied by Hotei, at an event organized by the Italian Embassy in Tokyo, and Hotei's first ever live appearance in Italy, at Zucchero's record-breaking Verona Arena run of dates, in September.


==== 2017–2018 ====
In February 2017 Hotei joined Fornaciari on stage at the Sanremo Music Festival in Italy and returned to Arena di Verona in May for two more performances. In April 2017 Hotei completed his first tour of Europe, performing in 8 cities in Germany, Switzerland, Netherlands, and Belgium over 2 weeks, including Paaspop Festival in the Netherlands. In May 2017 Hotei was special guest at Zucchero's first ever headline show in Tokyo with his own band. Hotei also performed his first headline live shows in Asia outside of Japan, in Taipei and Hong Kong.
Having completed the album in July, with recording largely taking place again in London, Hotei released his 17th solo album Paradox worldwide on October 25, 2017. It is his first Japanese-language album since Come Rain Come Shine almost five years earlier. The album was launched with three lyric videos, for the songs "Dreamers are Lonely", "Amplifire" and "Hitokoto". Hotei completed the Paradox tour in Japan in December 2017. His song "Kill to Love You" featuring Matthew Tuck from British heavy metal band Bullet for My Valentine was used in the UK trailers for Russian action movie Attraction in December 2017 and January 2018.
Hotei did an exclusive live streaming performance from British Grove Studios in London on March 24, for a NTT phone app. The one hour performance at 1pm was able to be watched live in Japan at 10pm and available for a few weeks thereafter. Hotei continued his live collaborations with Zucchero Fornaciari, joining him at two arena shows in Turin and Milan in January 2018, and then for two shows in Piazza San Marco, in Venice in July, for the Wanted - Un'altra storia Tour. Hotei collaborated again with the Hokuto no Ken franchise in September, for their 35th anniversary, with a new single called "202X", which was accompanied by an animated video and a second song "Boombastic".
On October 20, 2018, Hotei performed his first headline show in London for three years, at a special concert at Shepherd's Bush Empire, featuring his largest band presentation in the West, including a horn section, backing vocalists and featuring special guest Zucchero. The concert was again filmed for streaming by NTT in Japan. Hotei also toured again in Europe, with a return to Brussels and Zurich and his first headline show in Milan, which also featured Zucchero as special guest. Hotei ended 2018 with his first tour of Japan that was not tied in with an album release. The Tonight I'm Yours Tour featured a repertoire from Hotei's entire career and visited 18 Japanese cities. He performed live on Kohaku Uta Gassen on December 31 in Tokyo, his second performance on the major New Year's Eve TV show.


==== 2019–present ====
Hotei released his 18th solo studio album, Guitarhythm VI in May 2019, 10 years after Guitarhythm V. It features collaborations with Man With A Mission, Cornelius, keyboard player Mike Garson, and Hotei's former Boøwy bandmates Tsunematsu Matsui and Makoto Takahashi. The album was preceded by three singles in the month before its release, with lead single "Give It To The Universe" becoming Hotei's fastest streamed track up to that point. A nationwide summer Guitarhythm VI tour followed the album release, with Hotei using a UK rhythm section for the first time for a Japanese tour - Steve Barney (drums) and Mark Neary (bass). In September Hotei was special guest at two shows for the all star SAS band in Portsmouth and London UK, sharing the stage with Roger Taylor, Spike Edney and Justin Hawkins amongst others. Hotei reprised his GuitarRhythm Tour in Japan in December.
On November 25, 2020, Hotei released the collaborative album Soul to Soul, which features collaborations with his fellow Japanese Kazuya Yoshii and Glim Spanky, as well as international acts like Carlinhos Brown, Marc Lavoine, Calogero and Yang Kun.


== Personal life ==
Hotei has been married twice. He married singer Kumiko Yamashita in January 1986; they divorced in November 1997. He has been married to singer and actress Miki Imai since June 1999. They have a daughter (born July 26, 2002).
Although based in London, Hotei travels frequently between Japan and the UK for concert tours, recording, and event appearances. In February 2013, BBC World News ran a feature on Hotei and his recent life in London.
On June 14, 2007, Hotei allegedly assaulted his friend and punk rock singer Kō Machida. The incident happened when the two men got into an argument about a band they planned on forming together. Machida filed a police report on the 18th, and Hotei was ordered to pay a fine of 300,000 yen on October 1.


== Discography ==


=== Singles ===
"Dancing with the Moonlight" (April 3, 1989)
Released only in the UK in two mixes on 12" inch and 7" inch vinyl.
"Deja-vu" (December 12, 1990), Oricon Singles Chart Peak Position: #2
"Beat Emotion" (June 29, 1991) #1
"You" (December 4, 1991) #12
"Lonely Wild" (July 22, 1992) #5
"Saraba Seishun no Hikari" (さらば青春の光, July 28, 1993) #8
"Surrender" (サレンダー, March 30, 1994) #2
"Bara to Ame" (薔薇と雨, December 14, 1994) #13
"Poison" (January 25, 1995) #2
"Thrill" (スリル, October 18, 1995) #1
"Last Scene" (ラストシーン, January 24, 1996) #3
"Inochi wa Moyashitsukusu tame no Mono" (命は燃やしつくすためのもの, May 24, 1996) #13
"Circus" (October 23, 1996) #3
"Change Yourself!" (August 1, 1997) #6
"Thank You & Good Bye" (January 28, 1998) #9
"Bambina" (バンビーナ, April 16, 1999) #2
"Nobody is Perfect" (May 12, 1999) #10
"Vampire" (August 30, 2000) #8
"Love Junkie" (October 25, 2000) #11
"Born to Be Free" (January 1, 2001) #14
"Russian Roulette" (February 6, 2002) #9
"Destiny Rose" (October 17, 2002) #8
"Nocturne No.9" (August 27, 2003) #13
"Another Battle" (アナザー・バトル, June 30, 2004) #17
"Identity" (February 23, 2005) #21
"Back Streets of Tokyo" (August 23, 2006) #19
A collaboration with Brian Setzer.
"Stereocaster" (November 8, 2006) #17
A collaboration with Char.
"Still Alive" (August 4, 2010) #20
"Promise" (May 18, 2011) #10
"Don't Give Up!" (December 5, 2012) #16
"Wuthering Heights" (嵐が丘, March 5, 2013) #17
"How the Cookie Crumbles" (June 15, 2015)
UK and Europe only single, featuring Iggy Pop.
"8 Beat no Silhouette" (8 BEATのシルエット, April 6, 2016) #13
"Move It" featuring Richard Kruspe(April 2016)
"Walking Through the Night" featuring Iggy Pop (November 2016)
"Dreamers are Lonely" (October 2017)
"Kill to Love You" (January 2018)
"202X / Boombastic" (September 19, 2018) #15
"Thanks a Lot" (April 2019)
"Clone" (May 2019)
"Give It To The Universe" (May 2019)


=== Studio albums ===
Guitarhythm (October 5, 1988), Oricon Albums Chart Peak Position: #2
Guitarhythm II (September 27, 1991) #1
Guitarhythm III (September 23, 1992) #2
Guitarhythm IV (June 1, 1994) #2
King & Queen (February 28, 1996) #1
Supersonic Generation (April 29, 1998) #4
Fetish (November 29, 2000) #8
Scorpio Rising (March 6, 2002) #6
Doberman (September 26, 2003) #9
Monster Drive (June 15, 2005) #10
Soul Sessions (December 6, 2006) #15
Ambivalent (October 24, 2007) #10
Guitarhythm V (February 18, 2009) #5
Come Rain Come Shine (February 6, 2013) #5
New Beginnings (October 1, 2014) #4
Strangers (October 16, 2015) #12 (Japanese edition)
Paradox (October 25, 2017) #7
Guitarhythm VI (May 29, 2019) #3
Soul to Soul (November 25, 2020) #15


=== Compilations albums ===
Guitarhythm Forever Vol. 1 (February 17, 1995) #1
Guitarhythm Forever Vol. 2 (February 17, 1995) #2
Greatest Hits 1990–1999 (June 23, 1999) #1
Tonight I'm Yours / B-Side Rendez-vous (January 26, 2000, two albums) #4
All Time Super Best (December 7, 2005) #5
All Time Super Guest (August 17, 2011) #5
51 Emotions -the best for the future- (June 22, 2016) #5


=== Live albums ===
Guitarhythm Active Tour 91-92 (April 8, 1992) #2
Guitarhythm Wild (April 28, 1993) #3
Space Cowboy Show (March 19, 1997) #3
Space Cowboy Show Encore (April 25, 1997) #8
Rock the Future Tour 2000-2001 (March 22, 2001) #15
Tomoyasu Hotei Live in Budokan (December 26, 2002) #18
Monster Drive Party!!! (September 14, 2005) #25
MTV Unplugged (June 27, 2007) #38
Climax Emotions -Live at Budokan- (June 28, 2017) #17


=== Soundtracks ===
Beautiful Noise (1993)
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998)
SF Samurai Fiction (July 29, 1998) #29
New Battles Without Honor and Humanity (新・仁義なき戦い/そしてその映画音楽, November 29, 2000) #41
KT -Original Motion Picture Soundtrack- (May 22, 2002)
Kill Bill Vol. 1 (2003)
Electric Samurai (March 30, 2004) #24
Lupin III (2014)
Demon City (2025)


=== Other albums ===
Battle Royale Mixes (December 24, 1996)
Limited release.
Guitar Concerto (June 1, 1998) #14
Collaboration with Michael Kamen.
Battle Royale Mixes II (July 23, 1998) #18
Limited release.
Guitarhythm Box (December 24, 2008) #52
Contains Guitarhythm I, II, III, IV, a preview of V, and a live DVD.
Modern Times Rock'N'Roll (Party Mix) (November 25, 2009)
iTunes Store limited digital download.
Modern Times Rock'N'Roll (December 23, 2009) #12
Cover album of Western hits. Also released as a limited quantity USB flash drive on the same day.
Hotei Memorial Super Box (February 1, 2012) #23


=== Other work ===
Wired (June 21, 1993)
Sputnik: The Next Generation (1996)
Arena (1996)
Merry Axemas: A Guitar Christmas (1997)
"Gessekai" (May 13, 1998)
Tribute Spirits (May 1, 1999)
"Hot Chocolate" (January 25, 2006)
A single by Rip Slyme. Appears on "Battle Funkastic ~Rip Slyme VS Hotei~", a mash-up of Hotei's "Battle Without Honor or Humanity" and Rip Slyme's "Funkastic".
Grace (September 14, 2007)
Circus (March 16, 2011)
"All You Need Is Love" (March 7, 2012)
A charity single by Japan United with Music, composed of many different Japanese artists, for recovery from the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. Performs one of the guitar solos.
"Saraba, Itoshiki Kanashimitachi yo" (November 21, 2012)
"Back in Love Again" (December 19, 2012)
Japonism (October 21, 2015)
What Happens Next (February 24, 2015)
Black Cat (April 2016)


=== Home videos ===
Guitarhythm (July 11, 1989)
Guitarhythm Active Tour '91-'92 (March 25, 1992)
Guitarhythm Wild (June 16, 1993)
Serious Clips (July 27, 1994)
Guitarhythm Serious! Climax (May 17, 1995)
Cyber City Never Sleep (May 24, 1996)
H (October 9, 1996)
Space Cowboy Show (April 25, 1997)
Space Cowboy Show Encore (1997)
Only given to those who bought Space Cowboy Show on both VHS and DVD.
SSG Live "Rock the Future" (October 7, 1998)
Greatest Video 1994-1999 (July 16, 1999)
Tonight I'm Yours (May 16, 2000), Oricon DVDs Chart Peak Position: #8
Rock the Future Tour 2000-2001 (May 16, 2001) #23
Hotei Live Jukebox (July 25, 2001) #18
Live in Budokan (July 29, 2003)
Beat Crazy Presents Live @ AX (May 21, 2003) #31
Doberman DVD (November 3, 2003) #38
The Live! Doberman (June 30, 2004) #8
Top Runner Full Version (March 30, 2005) #56
Limited release.
Monster Drive Party!!! (September 14, 2005) #12
All Time Super Clips (May 15, 2006) #21
All Time Super Best Tour (June 26, 2006) #7
Hotei presents "Super Soul Sessions" Brian Setzer vs Hotei vs Char (June 27, 2007) #12
MTV Unplugged (June 27, 2006) #26
Hotei and The Wanderers Funky Punky Tour 2007-2008 (April 23, 2008) #19
Tōdai-ji+G.V. / Time and Space (November 25, 2009) #15
Limited release.
Hotei+Tōdai-ji Tomoyasu Hotei Special Live -Fly into your Dream- (November 25, 2009)
Guitarhythm V Tour (November 25, 2009) #154
30th Anniversary Anthology I "Souseiki" (September 14, 2011) #3
30th Anniversary Anthology II "Ifuu Doudou" (September 14, 2011) #2
30th Anniversary Anthology III "Ichigo Ichie" (December 9, 2011) #14
We Are Dreamer ~50th Birthday Special Celebration Gig~ (February 1, 2012) #10
Hotei Live In London- Electric Samurai- Live at O2 Shepherd's Bush Empire (August 27, 2014) #53
Tomoyasu Hotei Japan Tour 2014 -Into the Light- (June 10, 2015) #19
Hotei Jazz Trio Live at Blue Note Tokyo (June 10, 2015) #36


== Filmography ==
SF Samurai Fiction as Rannosuke Kazamatsuri (1998)
New Battles Without Honor and Humanity as Tochino Masatatsu (also known as Another Battle, 2002)
Red Shadow Akakage as Rannosuke Kazamatsuri (2001)
Akai Tsuki as Colonel Osugi (2004)
The Smashing Machine as himself (2025)


== Video games ==
Stolen Song (Sony Computer Entertainment, May 21, 1998 for PlayStation; Toshiba EMI, July 8, 1998 for Windows 95)


== In popular culture ==
His cover of "Immigrant Song" is the entrance theme for New Japan Pro-Wrestling wrestler Togi Makabe, who uses it as a tribute to legendary wrestler Bruiser Brody who used the original version of "Immigrant Song" as his entrance theme.
"Battle Without Honor or Humanity" was featured in the American movies  S.W.A.T. , Kill Bill, The Mitchells vs. the Machines, Transformers, Hotel for Dogs, and Team America: World Police, and in the games Dance Dance Revolution SuperNova and Pop'n Music Carnival 13. It also made an appearance in a first season episode of My Name Is Earl, and has been used in a variety of automobile ad campaigns worldwide. It is also the intro theme used during the Colin Cowherd radio show syndicated in the United States via ESPN Radio. The song was also used in the trailer for the PlayStation 3 game Gran Turismo HD. It is also used in the World Series of Poker Mobile Game
"Russian Roulette" was featured in an opening video of the PS2 game Onimusha 2: Samurai's Destiny.
"Bambina," "Russian Roulette," and "Nocturne no. 9" were featured in Konami's Guitar Freaks mixes 4/3 and 8/7, and Drummania V, respectively.
"Thrill" was featured in the video game Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan and "Bambina" was featured in its sequel.
"Identity" was used in the Japanese TV commercial for the Nintendo GameCube video game Star Fox Assault.
"Bambina," "Thrill" and "Battle Without Honor or Humanity" were included as Rocksmith 2014 downloadable-content.
"Thrill" is used by Japanese wrestler Danshoku Dino as his entrance theme song.


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website
Tomoyasu Hotei at IMDb

This is a list of the complete squads for the 2020 Rugby Europe Championship, an annual rugby union tournament contested by the national rugby teams of Belgium, Spain, Georgia, Portugal, Romania and Russia. Georgia are the defending champions.
Note: Number of caps and players' ages are indicated as of 1 February 2020 – the tournament's opening day.


== Belgium ==
On 20 January 2020, Guillaume Ajac named a 48-man squad for the 2020 Rugby Europe Championship.
Head coach:  Guillaume Ajac

Note – Players in bold have played more matches than shown above but there is no information of Belgium caps pre-2013.


== Georgia ==
On 17 January 2020, Levan Maisashvili named his 34-man squad for the 2020 Rugby Europe Championship.
Head coach:  Levan Maisashvili (interim)

Call-ups
On 5 February, Akaki Tabutsatde was called up to replace Mirian Modebadze and Giorgi Kveseladze due to minor injuries whereas Konstantin Mikautadze left the squad due to club commitments.
On 16 February, Lasha Tabidze was called up into the squad while Levan Chilachava, Beka Gigashvili, Mikheil Nariashvili and Vasil Lobzhanidze leave the squad for the less-experienced players to play. Also, Tornike Jalaghonia was called up to replace Otar Giorgadze who left the squad as well due to a minor injury.


== Portugal ==
On 29 January 2020, Patrice Lagisquet named his 26-man squad for the 2020 Rugby Europe Championship.
Head coach:  Patrice Lagisquet

Note: Flags indicate national union for the club/province as defined by World Rugby.

Note – Jorge Abecasis has been added to the squad on the 31 January 2020.


== Romania ==
On 29 January 2020, Andy Robinson named a 33-man squad for the 2020 Rugby Europe Championship.
Head coach:  Andy Robinson

Note: Flags indicate national union for the club/province as defined by World Rugby.

Call-ups
On 3 February, Ionel Badiu, Costel Burțilă and Mihai Macovei were called up to replace Horațiu Pungea, Cosmin Manole, Vlad Neculau, Alexandru Bucur and Cătălin Fercu due to a contagious flu.
On 14 February, Horațiu Pungea, Cosmin Manole, Vlad Neculau and Cătălin Fercu have been re-called after having the flu along with Alexandru Savin, Marius Iftimiciuc Valentin Popârlan, Florian Roșu and Moa Mua Maliepo being called up for the first time this season to replace Ionel Badiu, Iulian Hartig and Țăruș.


== Russia ==
On 21 January 2020, Lyn Jones announced a 32-man squad for the 2020 Rugby Europe Championship.
Head coach:  Lyn Jones

Note: Flags indicate national union for the club/province as defined by World Rugby.

Call-ups
On 28 January, Evgeny Elgin was called up to replace Alexsandr Il`in (who will remain in the squad for the match versus Belgium) for the match versus Spain due to a minor injury sustained by Alexsandr Il`in.
On 29 January, Shamil Magomedov and Patris Peki were called up to replace the players Tagir Gadzhiev and Bogdan Fedotko due to injuries accumulated during training.
On 4 February, Alexey Scobyola was called up to replace Andrey Polivalov while Tagir Gadzhiev and Stanislav Sel'skiy left the squad due to injuries accumulated during the opening match against Spain.
On 6 February, Valery Morozov was called up for the match against Belgium.
On 14 February, Nikita Churashov, German Godlyuk, Roman Khodin, Dennis Mashkin, Andrei Ostrikov and Konstantin Uzunov were called up for the match against Portugal to replace Stepan Seryakov Sergey Chernyshev, Vasily Dorofeev, Nikita Vavilin and Khetag Dzobelov whilst Aleksandr Il`in, Alexei Shcherban and Yuri Kushnarev left the squad due to injuries from the previous match versus Belgium.


== Spain ==
On 20 January 2020, Santiago Santos named a 31-man squad for the 2020 Rugby Europe Championship.
Head coach:  Santiago Santos

Note: Flags indicate national union for the club/province as defined by World Rugby.

Call-ups
On 3 February, Marco Pinto Ferrer, Asier Usarraga and Charly Malie, Tomás Munilla and Martín Alonso were called up to replace Matthew Bebe Smith, Michael Sequoia Hogg, Kerman Aurrekoetxea and Gauthier Minguillon.
On 17 February, José Díaz and Nicolás Jurado were called up to replace Fernando Martín López who sustained an injury in the previous match versus Georgia along with Manuel Mora, Álvar Gimeno, Nicolás Nieto, Federico Castiglioni, Baltazar Taibo and Sergio Molinero also joining the squad while Ien-Leight Ashcroft, Charly Malie and Guillaume Rouet left the squad due to club commitments. Also Jordi Jorba leaves the squad due to a major injury sustained in the opening match.


== References ==

Rossburg is an unincorporated community in Salt Creek Township, Decatur County, Indiana, U.S.A.


== History ==
Rossburg was laid out in 1836. A post office was established at Rossburg in 1838, and remained in operation until it was discontinued in 1870.


== References ==

Gedney Drove End () is a village in the civil parish of Gedney and the  South Holland district of Lincolnshire, England. It is 40 miles (64 km) south-east from the city and county town of Lincoln, and 12 miles (20 km) from both Boston at the north-west and King's Lynn at the south-east.
Gedney Drove End is within Gedney Marsh, 5 miles (8 km) north-east from the parish village of Gedney, and 1 mile (1.6 km) from the south-west shore of The Wash estuary. The village is centred where Marsh Road runs into Dawsmere Road at the junction with Main Road, the B1359 road which runs from the village to Long Sutton. There is one public house, 'The Rising Sun' on Marsh Road; On Main Road is Gedney Drove Primary School. The village hall, which is shared with the neighbouring hamlet of Dawsmere, is on Dawsmere Road.
At the west of Gedney Drove End, separated by fields and at the centre of a farm, is Norfolk House, a Grade II listed red brick house dating to the early 19th century. At the north of the village, on the bank of The Wash is an infantry blockhouse from the Second World War. Further south-east off Marsh Road is a "Type 23 three-bay concrete anti-aircraft pillbox". At the centre of the village is evidence of Gedney Drove End post-medieval settlement, and the extant Methodist chapel dating to 1885. To the north of the village centre is the site of a former corn tower mill, non-existent by 1953.


== History ==
Gedney Drove was made an ecclesiastical district in 1855, and from then until 1870 services were held in the village schoolroom until the church at Dawsmere was built. Sunday afternoon services were held at a  mission house in the village. In 1872 the Primitive Methodist Chapel was recorded. Occupations and trades at the time included a schoolmistress, eleven farmers, two coal dealers, a miller & baker, a further baker who was also the post master, a shoemaker, two carpenters, one of whom was also a wheelwright, a blacksmith, a grocer & draper, a boatman coastguard, the occupant of a beerhouse, and the licensed victualler of The Wheatsheaf public house.
Newspapers reported in 1906 that a silver cup, thought to be part of King John's lost treasure—believed to have vanished in the Wash on 12 October 1216—was found nearby by a Wisbech publican.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Gedney Drove End at Wikimedia Commons

Richard "Richie" Cardozo (born 28 March 1986 in Australia) is an Australian football (soccer) player who plays in the position of attacking midfielder or striker. He currently plays for Mt Druitt Town Rangers.


== Early life ==
Cardozo was born in Sydney, Australia. He was born to his Uruguayan father and his Argentinian mother. He grew up speaking Spanish at home, and is also fluent in French and English. Cardozo has one older brother, former Socceroo Pablo Cardozo.


== Playing career ==
Cardozo was selected for every representative team growing up; including New South Wales School Boys, New South Wales Under 14's, New South Wales Under 15's, and New South Wales Under 16's. He was also selected into the New South Wales Institute of Sport as a scholarship holder, and made the Under 16's and Under 17's Australian Team where he captained two games, won Top Goal Scorer for the World Cup Qualifiers, and represented Australia in the FIFA U-17 World Cup.


=== 2003 and the NSL ===
Richie made his NSL debut at 17 years old in 2003 for Sydney Olympic in the final season of the NSL before it became the A-League. At such a young age, Richie was earmarked by coaches and scouts to be the next big thing in Australian Football. However, with the collapse of the NSL, and the establishment of the new A-League, Cardozo's career was stalled, and he missed out on both a contract in the A-League, and the Under 20's World Cup in the Netherlands in 2005.


=== 2007 ===
After spells in the New South Wales Premier League, the Victorian Premier League, and the New Zealand National League, Cardozo signed a contract with Swiss third division team FC Bex in February 2007. After a stint that covered both the 06–07, and 07–08 seasons, he returned to Melbourne to play in the Victorian Premier League.


=== 2008 – 2011 ===
For the 2008 and 2009 season, Cardozo played for Richmond. He then moved to Hume City for the 2010 and 2011 season. Over the four years that he played in the Victorian Premier League, Carodozo scored 54 goals. In the 2011 Victorian Premier League season he was crowned top scorer in the league with 19 goals and won Media Player of the Year.


=== 2012 ===
In January 2012, he signed with Austrian Football First League club LASK. on a 2+1⁄2-year deal. LASK Linz never lost a game with Cardozo playing that season, and a push for promotion to the Austrian Bundesliga fell slightly short. Unfortunately at the end of that season off field indiscretions by the club resulted in LASK being relegated to the 3rd tier of Austrian Football by the Austrian Federation, and Cardozo and LASK mutually terminated the remaining 2 years of his contract.


=== 2013 ===
In 2013, Cardozo returned to his home town of Sydney for the inaugural revamped National Premier League and played a major role in leading Rockdale City Suns to a Grand Final Birth. It was yet again a successful season for Cardozo, being selected in the starting 11 for the team of the year, and also netting 17 season goals to win the very first Golden boot for the NSW NPL and in doing so becoming the first and only player to win the Golden boot in both the NSW and Victorian Premier Leagues.


=== 2013/2014 ===
In the Southern Summer, he returned to New Zealand and his former club in Waitakere United. Cardozo finished the season as the league's second top goalscorer.


=== 2014 ===
Hume City. Cardozo yet again linked up with a former team in Hume City for the 2014 season. It was a below par season for Cardozo by his standards, as he took over the captaincy of the side due to a long-term injury to the team's first choice skipper. Playing a different role and position within the team for most of the season, Cardozo found it more difficult to make his customary impact, scoring less goals than previous years. Frustration grew, rumours of a major contractual dispute and mis-management by the club surfaced for the third successive stint with Hume City. A tag that has haunted the organisation on many occasions for many years, and along with a desire to return to play professionally overseas again, ultimately led to the apparent reason for Cardozo's departure.


=== 2016 ===
In 2016, Cardozo joined Manly United in the NSW Premier League. Playing his first game of the season with Manly he scored a goal against Mounties Wanderers to advance Manly to the next round in the FFA cup. Cardozo ended his campaign with 10 goals in all competitions. Despite only playing half the season Cardozo finished as one of the league's leading goalscorers and helping Manly United to a Waratah cup final, FFA cup round of 32 and play off berth.


=== International career ===
Cardozo has represented Australia at U/17 level, and went to the FIFA U/17 World Championships in Finland 2003. He was the Top Goal Scorer in the Qualifying campaign and Captained the side on two occasions. He narrowly missed out on selection for both the Australian U/20 team to compete in the 2005 World Youth Championships, and also the Olyroos that went to the Beijing Olympics 2008.


== References ==

The Scandal (Korean: 스캔들: 매우 충격적이고 부도덕한 사건; lit. 'Scandal: A Very Astounding and Immoral Incident') is a 2013 South Korean television series starring Kim Jaewon, Jo Yoon-hee, Cho Jae-hyun, Park Sang-min, Shin Eun-kyung, Ki Tae-young, Kim Hye-ri, and Kim Gyu-ri. It aired on MBC from June 29 to October 27, 2013 on Saturdays and Sundays at 21:45 for 36 episodes. This drama commemorated Seoul Olympics' 25th anniversary.


== Plot ==
Detective Ha Eun-joong uncovers a shocking secret: Ha Myung-geun, the man he believed to be his father, had actually kidnapped him as a child. Myung-geun had lost his own son in a building collapse and, as revenge against Jang Tae-ha—the man responsible for the tragedy—he abducted Tae-ha's son and raised him as his own. In the aftermath of his revenge, Eun-joong searches for the truth and becomes caught between his two fathers and the woman he loves, Woo Ah-mi.


== Cast ==


=== Main characters ===
Kim Jaewon as Ha Eun-joong
Jung Yoon-seok as 8-year-old Ha Eun-joong
Kim Hwi-soo as 5-year-old Ha Eun-joong
Detective at Gangnam police station. He became a detective to try to understand his father, an ex-detective, better. Why did his dad quit the force in 1988? What happened to him that he became a construction foreman? Why did he adopt him but never fully accept him as his son? One day, he begins investigating the death of Gong Ki-chan, a construction worker, and becomes entangled with the Jang family and the dead man's fiancée, Woo Ah-mi.
Cho Jae-hyun as Ha Myung-geun
He is a loving father to Ha Eun-joong and Ha Soo-young. But he is also Ha Eun-joong's kidnapper. His wife died while giving birth to Soo-young and that left him caring for his two kids all by himself. Jang Tae-ha, chairman of Taeha Construction firm, was responsible for the shoddy construction of a building that collapsed, killing Myung-geun's son. When Tae-ha falsifies evidence to escape prosecution and doesn't show any remorse for the collapse, Myung-geun kidnapped Jang's son to get revenge. A few years later, filled with regret and his conscience eating at him, he decides to take Eun-joong back to his real family. Outside the house, he sees that they already have a son, the fake Eun-joong. He goes home with Eun-joong, and finally his heart is free to love him and raise him as his own.
Park Sang-min as Jang Tae-ha
Chairman of Taeha conglomerate and one of the wealthiest individuals in Korea. He is the father of Jang Eun-joong and Jang Joo-ha. Stylish and trendy, he has a fiery temper when crossed.
Shin Eun-kyung as Yoon Hwa-young
Tae-ha's estranged wife, a rational and cool-headed lawyer and head of her own firm. She was devastated when her son Eun-joong was abducted. To prevent Tae-ha from divorcing her and marrying his mistress Joo-ran, she adopted a boy from an orphanage and passed him off as Tae-ha's son Jang Eun-joong. But all these years, she is still searching for her real son.
Jo Yoon-hee as Woo Ah-mi
She owns a lunch stand where many people preparing for the state police exams take cram courses. She wanted to become a prosecutor but soon realized that she could never pass the bar exam. Following the death of her husband and unborn daughter caused by Tae-ha, Myung-geun takes her in as he feels like it is his fault. She is determined to find justice for her husband, and along the way she begins to find out shocking secrets and develops feelings for Ha Eun-joong. She's honest, thoughtful, measured in her behavior, well-balanced and simple-minded. She cries a lot, talks a lot, gives loves and has a quick temper.
Ki Tae-young as Jang Eun-joong
Jung Joon-won as 8-year-old Jang Eun-joong
Tae-ha and Hwa-young's son, he is a lawyer and becomes Ha Eun-joong's rival.
Kim Hye-ri as Go Joo-ran
Tae-ha's mistress. She is determined to get rid of Tae-ha's wife and their son, Eun-joong, to get her position in Tae-ha's household and for her daughter's sake in Tae-ha's company.
Kim Gyu-ri as Jang Joo-ha
Jo Min-ah as young Jang Joo-ha
Tae-ha and Joo-ran's daughter; she is a career woman who works for her father's company.


=== Supporting characters ===
Jo Han-chul as Shin Kang-ho
Choi Cheol-ho as Kang Joo-pil
Ahn Suk-hwan as Jo Chi-gook
Han Groo as Ha Soo-young
Lee Ye-sun as young Ha Soo-young
Myung-geun's daughter, Ha Eun-joong's sister.
Park Jung-chul as Jo Jin-woong
Jin Ju-hyung as Detective Goo
Park Min-woo as hacker Batman
Jo Hwi-joon as Ha Gun-young
Kim Hyun as Go Joo-ran's aide
Choi Yong-min as Taeha Construction worker
Jung Ho-keun as Taeha Construction worker
Jung Kyu-soo as section head Song Jae-moon
Hong Jae-sung as Detective Lee
Yang Jin-woo as Gong Ki-chan
Ah-mi's fiancé and father of their then-unborn child. Ki-chan was Myung-geun's protege and working as a construction worker. He discovers anomalies in the project and confronts Jang Tae-ha. He ends up dead on his supposed wedding day.
Hong Yeo-jin as Ki-chan's mother
Kim Hae-gon as inspection team leader
Han Ki-won as Kim Joong-hyuk
Choi Hee-seo as Secretary Moon


== Production ==
The series is the third collaboration between screenwriter Bae Yoo-mi and director Kim Jin-man after Country Princess (2003) and Love Truly (2006).


== Ratings ==
In the table below, the blue numbers represent the lowest ratings and the red numbers represent the highest ratings.


== Awards and nominations ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website (in Korean)
The Scandal at IMDb
The Scandal at MBC Global Media
The Scandal at HanCinema

Thermogenesis is the process of heat production in the metabolism of organisms.  It occurs in all warm-blooded animals, and also in a few species of thermogenic plants such as the Eastern skunk cabbage, the Voodoo lily (Sauromatum venosum), and the giant water lilies of the genus Victoria. The lodgepole pine dwarf mistletoe, Arceuthobium americanum,  disperses its seeds explosively through thermogenesis.  Thermoregulation is an important component of a homeothermic animal's resting metabolic rate (RMR) and serves to defend body temperature within narrow limits at low or high ambient temperature.  The energy used to sustain thermogenesis is obtained in cellular respiration when nutrients such as glucose or fatty acids are oxidized to generate molecules of ATP.


== Types ==
Depending on whether or not they are initiated through locomotion and intentional movement of the muscles, thermogenic processes can be classified as one of the following:

Obligatory thermogenesis: Heat generated from energy expenditure for vital metabolic processes necessary to sustain an organism at rest.  Obligatory thermogenesis includes both cellular work (e.g., active transport, cell division, DNA replication) and organ work (e.g., myocardial contractility, liver detoxification, renal filitration).
Exercise activity thermogenesis (EAT)
Non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT): Energy expended for any spontaneous physical activity that is not a structured exercise routine or sports-like exercise. This can include but is not limited to walking, leisure activities, fidgeting, and maintaining posture.
Diet-induced thermogenesis (DIT): Energy expended to process the nutrients in food.


=== Shivering ===
One method animals use to raise temperature is through shivering.  When an animal shivers, almost all the energy being expended shows up as heat.  While shivering does not produce useful motion, it is still valuable for raising an animal's body temperature.  For example, shivering is the process by which the body temperature of hibernating mammals (such as some bats and ground squirrels) is raised as these animals emerge from hibernation.


=== Non-shivering ===

Non-shivering thermogenesis occurs in brown adipose tissue (brown fat) that is present in almost all eutherians (swine being the only exception currently known). Brown adipose tissue has a unique uncoupling protein (thermogenin, also known as uncoupling protein 1) that allows for the synthesis of ATP to be uncoupled from the production of protons (H+), thus enabling mitochondria to burn fatty acids and oxygen to generate heat. The atomic structure of human uncoupling protein 1 UCP1 has been solved by cryogenic-electron microscopy. The structure has the typical fold of a member of the SLC25 family. UCP1 is locked in a cytoplasmic-open state by guanosine triphosphate in a pH-dependent manner, preventing proton leak.
High levels of free fatty acids within cells play a pivotal role in regulating mitochondrial uncoupling by stimulating proton leak.  The stimulation of beta oxidation by increased levels of hormones such as thyroid hormone or norepinephrine helps to activate non-shivering thermogenesis during cold exposure.  In this process, free fatty acids (derived from triacylglycerols) remove purine (ADP, GDP and others) inhibition of thermogenin, which causes an influx of H+ into the matrix of the mitochondrion and bypasses the ATP synthase channel. This uncouples oxidative phosphorylation, and the energy from the proton motive force is dissipated as heat rather than producing ATP from ADP, which would store chemical energy for the body's use.  Thermogenesis can also be produced by leakage of the sodium-potassium pump and the Ca2+ pump. Thermogenesis is contributed to by futile cycles, such as the simultaneous occurrence of lipogenesis and lipolysis or glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. In a broader context, futile cycles can be influenced by activity/rest cycles such as the Summermatter cycle.
Acetylcholine stimulates muscle to raise metabolic rate.
The low demands of thermogenesis mean that free fatty acids draw, for the most part, on lipolysis as the method of energy production.
A comprehensive list of human and mouse genes regulating cold-induced thermogenesis (CIT) in living animals (in vivo) or tissue samples (ex vivo) has been assembled and is available in CITGeneDB.


== Evolutionary history ==


=== In avians and eutherians ===
The biological processes which allow for thermogenesis in animals did not evolve from a singular, common ancestor. Rather, avian (birds) and eutherian (placental mammalian) lineages developed the ability to perform thermogenesis independently through separate evolutionary processes. The fact that the same evolutionary character evolved independently in two different lineages after their last known common ancestor means that thermogenic processes are classified as an example of convergent evolution. However, while both clades are capable of performing thermogenesis, the biological processes involved are different. The reason that avians and eutherians both developed the capacity to perform thermogenesis is a subject of ongoing study by evolutionary biologists, and two competing explanations have been proposed to explain why this character appears in both lineages.
One explanation for the convergence is the "aerobic capacity" model. This theory suggests that natural selection favored individuals with higher resting metabolic rates, and that as the metabolic capacity of birds and eutherians increased, they developed the capacity for endothermic thermogenesis. Researchers have linked high levels of oxygen consumption with high resting metabolic rates, suggesting that the two are directly correlated. Rather than animals developing the capacity to maintain high and stable body temperatures only to be able to thermoregulate without the aid of the environment, this theory suggests that thermogenesis is actually a by-product of natural selection for higher aerobic and metabolic capacities. These higher metabolic capacities may initially have evolved for the simple reason that animals capable of metabolizing more oxygen for longer periods of time would have been better suited to, for example, run from predators or gather food. This model explaining the development of thermogenesis is older and more widely accepted among evolutionary biologists who study thermogenesis.
The second explanation is the "parental care" model. This theory proposes that the convergent evolution of thermogenesis in birds and eutherians is based on shared behavioral traits. Specifically, birds and eutherians both provide high levels of parental care to young offspring. This high level of care is theorized to give new born or hatched animals the opportunity to mature more rapidly because they have to expend less energy to satisfy their food, shelter, and temperature needs. The "parental care" model thus proposes that higher aerobic capacity was selected for in parents as a means of meeting the needs of their offspring. While the "parental care" model does differ from the "aerobic capacity" model, it shares some similarities in that both explanations for the rise of thermogenesis rest on natural selection favoring individuals with higher aerobic capacities for one reason or another. The primary difference between the two theories is that the "parental care" model proposes that a specific biological function (childcare) resulted in selective pressure for higher metabolic rates.
Despite both relying on similar explanations for the process by which organisms gained the capacity to perform non-shivering thermogenesis, neither of these explanations has secured a large enough consensus to be considered completely authoritative on convergent evolution of NST in birds and mammals, and scientists continue to conduct studies which support both positions.


=== Non-shivering thermogenesis ===
Brown Adipose Tissue (BAT) thermogenesis is one of the two known forms of non-shivering thermogenesis (NST). This type of heat-generation occurs only in eutherians, not in birds or other thermogenic organisms. BAT NST occurs when Uncoupling Protein 1 (UCP1) uncouples oxidative phosphorylation in eutherians' bodies resulting in the generation of heat through a "proton leak" (Berg et al., 2006, p. 1178). This process generally only begins in eutherians after they have been subjected to low temperatures for an extended period of time, after which the process allows an organism's body to maintain a high and stable temperature without a reliance on environmental thermoregulation mechanisms (such as sunlight/shade). Because eutherians are the only clade which store brown adipose tissue, scientists previously thought that UCP1 evolved in conjunction with brown adipose tissue. However, recent studies have shown that UCP1 can also be found in non-eutherians like fish, birds, and reptiles. This discovery means that UCP1 probably existed in a common ancestor before the radiation of the eutherian lineage. Since this evolutionary split, though, UCP1 has evolved independently in eutherians, through a process which scientists believe was not driven by natural selection, but rather by neutral processes like genetic drift.


=== Evolution of Skeletal-Muscle Non-Shivering Thermogenesis ===
The second form of NST occurs in skeletal muscle. While eutherians use both BAT and skeletal muscle NST for thermogenesis, birds only use the latter form. This process has also been shown to occur in rare instances in fish. In skeletal muscle NST, Calcium ions slip across muscle cells to generate heat. Even though BAT NST was originally thought to be the only process by which animals could maintain endothermy, scientists now suspect that skeletal muscle NST was the original form of the process and that BAT NST developed later. Though scientists once also believed that only birds maintained their body temperatures using skeletal muscle NST, research in the late 2010s showed that mammals and other eutherians also use this process when they do not have adequate stores of brown adipose tissue in their bodies.
Skeletal muscle NST might also be used to maintain body temperature in heterothermic mammals during states of torpor or hibernation. Given that early eutherians and the reptiles which later evolved into avian lineages were either heterothermic or ectothermic, both forms of NST are thought not to have developed fully until after the K-pg extinction roughly 66 million years ago. However, some estimates place the evolution of these characters earlier, at roughly 100 mya. It is most likely that the process of evolving the capacity for thermogenesis as it currently exists was a process which began prior to the K-pg extinction and ended well after. The fact that skeletal muscle NST is common among eutherians during periods of torpor and hibernation further supports the theory that this form of thermogenesis is older than BAT NST. This is because early eutherians would not have had the capacity for non-shivering thermogenesis as it currently exists, so they more frequently used torpor and hibernation as means of thermal regulation, relying on systems which, in theory, predate BAT NST. However, there remains no consensus among evolutionary biologists on the order in which the two processes evolved, nor an exact timeframe for their evolution.


== Regulation ==
Non-shivering thermogenesis is regulated mainly by the synergistic effect of thyroid hormone (TH) and the sympathetic nervous system (SNS) on brown adipose tissue. When BAT is stimulated by norepinephrine released by the SNS, this triggers an intracellular cascade which increases the conversion of the less active thyroxine (T4) to the more active triiodothyronine (T3) within the tissue. T3 then increases the expression of UCP1 in BAT, enhancing heat production. TH also increases obligatory thermogenesis through stimulating metabolism, energy production and utilization. Other sources of heat production stimulated by TH include the sodium-potassium pump, and calcium ion cycling in muscle. Rising insulin levels after eating may be responsible for diet-induced thermogenesis (thermic effect of food) through increased glucose uptake. Intranasal insulin has been shown to increase metabolic rate by inhibiting warm-sensitive hypothalamic neurons, whose role is to lower body temperature in response to perceived warmth. Inhibiting these neurons stimulates BAT thermogenesis. Progesterone also increases body temperature.
While commonly thought to directly stimulate BAT thermogenesis, the mechanism by which leptin increases thermogenesis is through inhibiting torpor, which raises the body temperature threshold where heat-conserving mechanisms such as vasoconstriction will start to occur. Leptin deficient mice perceive a deficit in energy, triggering the body to conserve energy by reducing metabolic rate (torpor), which also lowers the body temperature threshold.


== Thermogenic Compounds as a Treatment for Obesity ==
There are several pharmaceuticals that can stimulate different types of thermogenesis, with varying levels of safety. Caffeine, for example, has been shown to increase both resting metabolic rate and energy expenditure from exercise, thus enhancing obligatory thermogenesis as well as exercise-induced thermogenesis. Caffeine has also been used in combination with Ephedrine, a sympathomimetic, and aspirin, a mitochondrial uncoupler, to promote weight loss and has shown some clinical efficacy. Ephedrine, due to increased risk of side effects such as hypertension, tachycardia, and stroke contributing to increased risk of death or permanent disability, was banned by the FDA in 2004. Caffeine is generally considered to be safe at doses up to 400 mg/day, with increased risk of cardiac events and seizures with increasing dose.
2,4-Dinitrophenol (DNP) is another uncoupler, which is much more potent than aspirin, and also more toxic, with a risk of triggering hyperthermia, tachycardia, and tachypnea which eventually is fatal. The chemical uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation by DNP causes low ATP in cells by allowing protons to leak through the mitochondrial membrane instead of being used in ATP synthase, which leads to loss of energy as heat, triggering rapid catabolism of fats and carbohydrates (and thus weight loss) to replenish ATP levels, which further amplifies heat production. It has historically been used as a weight loss agent but is still widely available, mainly through online pharmacies, despite being banned for human consumption in 1938 due its toxicity.


== Thermogenesis from white adipose tissue ==
A novel and interesting method named the thermogenin-like system (TLS) has recently been proposed to produce thermogenesis from white adipose tissue or from other substantial tissues (such as endothelial or muscle cells). Ultimately, this could lead to new therapeutic methods for treating morbid obesity or severe diabetes. The proposed model is purely theoretical and relies on the use of light-activated PoXeR pumps integrated into the inner membrane of mitochondria. These pumps allow the passage of protons in such a way that the proton motive force is reduced. This would enable greater consumption of blood glucose from white adipose, endothelial, or muscle cells, thereby potentially lowering blood glucose levels. The explanation is that glycolysis is accelerated when glucose enters the cells and undergoes the Krebs cycle in the mitochondria. Since muscle cells have many mitochondria, it is also interesting to express PoXeR pumps in this tissue.
However, the method is invasive, relies on gene therapy, and requires several clinical trials as well as hospitalization to integrate the system at the level of white or muscle adipose tissue in the abdominal fat. It is also a light-responsive system. Since light does not penetrate the skin from the outside, the system must include an under-skin component with alternating activation of green light for a certain duration, followed by deactivation for another period. This cycle repeats over several weeks, particularly to recharge the light system. To ensure that ATP levels do not drop too low (otherwise the cell dies), the system self-regulates. Indeed, for light to be activated in the system, it is necessary to have a mechanism that continuously provides light without significantly lowering ATP levels. As luciferase can emit light in exchange for ATP, if ATP levels decrease too drastically, the light stops, ATP levels rise again, and the light is reactivated to induce thermogenesis.
Independently, Glen Jeffery and Michael B. Powner studied in 2024 the impact of light on mitochondria in order to reduce blood glucose levels.
This work is quite similar to that of Daoudi Rédoane.


== See also ==
Thermoregulation


== References ==


== External links ==
Thermogenesis at the U.S. National Library of Medicine Medical Subject Headings (MeSH)

Robert Arnold Lue (May 23, 1964 – November 11, 2020) was a Jamaican-born American cellular biologist. He was the UNESCO Chair Professor on Life Sciences and Social Innovation at Harvard University, where he was the Richard L. Menschel Faculty Director of the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and a professor of molecular and cellular biology. Lue had been co-editor of the Harvard Data Science Review. Lue led LabXChange, an online learning platform, in partnership with the Amgen Foundation.


== Early life and education ==
Lue grew up in Jamaica, where he developed an interest in nature. He was of Chinese and Romanian descent. After being educated at St. George's College and graduating in 1980, Lue initially intended to study science at the University of Oxford before he "fell in love with the idea of the liberal arts" and instead chose to attend the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Massachusetts, on a full scholarship.
As an undergraduate, Lue specialized in philosophy, science, and studio arts. He graduated from Holy Cross with a Bachelor of Arts in biology and philosophy in 1986. After graduation, he considered pursuing either a doctorate in science, a doctorate in philosophy, or obtaining a Master of Fine Arts, ultimately deciding to spend a year painting and researching at Brandeis University.
After researching at Brandeis, Lue pursued graduate studies at Harvard University, where he earned his Ph.D. in cellular biology in 1995. His dissertation was titled "Molecular and biochemical characterization of Hdlg: the human homologue of the Drosophila discs-large tumor suppressor protein." In 1996, Lue completed his postdoctoral studies at Harvard. He was mentored by Daniel Branton, a professor of biology.


== Career ==
Lue joined the faculty of molecular and cellular biology at Harvard in 1999. Beginning in 2008, Lue was the Faculty Director of the Harvard-Allston Education Portal. He was recognized for his contributions to molecular animation. Lue's research was supported by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. He served as dean of Harvard Summer School and co-authored two textbooks on biology, researching science visualization.
On March 1, 2013, Lue became the inaugural Richard L. Menschel Faculty Director of the Derek Bok Center for Teaching and Learning at Harvard University.  He was formerly professor of the practice of molecular and cellular biology, and the director of life sciences education at Harvard University.
Lue developed multiple award-winning media animations about science, including Understanding HIV and AIDS (1999), Biochemistry: Interactive Learning (2000), The Inner Life of the Cell (2006), and Powering the Cell: Mitochondria (2010).


== Personal life ==
Lue died on November 11, 2020, of cancer at the age of 56. He was survived by his husband, Alain Viel.


== Selected publications ==
Lue, Robert A. (2019-11-01). "Data Science as a Foundation for Inclusive Learning". Harvard Data Science Review. 1 (2). doi:10.1162/99608f92.c9267215. ISSN 2644-2353.


== Notes ==

Bryocoris is a genus of plant bugs belonging to the family Miridae.
The genus was first described by Fallén in 1829.
The species of this genus are found in Europe and Japan.


== Species ==
These species belong to the genus Bryocoris:


== References ==

Two-time defending champions Martina Navratilova and Pam Shriver defeated Claudia Kohde-Kilsch and Helena Suková in the final, 6–3, 6–4 to win the women's doubles tennis title at the 1984 Australian Open. With the win, they became the third and fourth women in history (following Maria Bueno and Margaret Court) to complete a Grand Slam in women's doubles.


== Seeds ==
Champion seeds are indicated in bold text while text in italics indicates the round in which those seeds were eliminated.


== Draw ==
Key


=== Final ===


=== Top half ===


=== Bottom half ===


== External links ==
1984 Australian Open – Women's draws and results at the International Tennis Federation

Janjgir Naila railway station is the railway station for Janjgir Naila city, the district headquarters of Janjgir-Champa district, Chhattisgarh, India. Its code is NIA. The station has four platforms which are not well sheltered. The station is on the Tatanagar–Bilaspur section of Howrah–Nagpur–Mumbai line with daily connections to Mumbai, Kolkata, Pune, Nagpur, Puri, Visakhapatnam Tatanagar Raipur and Ahmedabad. The station is 6 km from Janjgir collectorate.


== Major trains ==
The following trains run from Janjgir Naila railway station:

Ahmedabad–Howrah SF Express
Bilaspur–Tatanagar Passenger
Bilaspur–Gevra Road Passenger (unreserved)
Bilaspur–Gevra Road MEMU
Bilaspur–Jharsuguda Passenger (unreserved)
Bilaspur–Raigarh MEMU
Bilaspur–Raigarh MEMU
Gondia–Jharsuguda Passenger (unreserved)
Gondia–Raigarh Jan Shatabdi Express
Itwari–Tatanagar Jn Passenger
Kalinga Utkal Express
Korba–Raipur MEMU
Korba–Thiruvananthapuram Central SF Express
Korba–Visakhapatnam Express
Shalimar–Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Express
Wainganga SF Express


== References ==

Vaughn Antoine Parker (born June 5, 1971) is an American former professional football player who was an offensive tackle in the National Football League (NFL) for the San Diego Chargers and Washington Redskins. He played college football for the UCLA Bruins, earning third-team All-American honors in 1993.
Parker played high school football at St. Joseph's Collegiate Institute in Buffalo, New York, where he was named to the All-Western New York and All-Northeast teams. At the University of California, Los Angeles, he became only the second offensive player in school history to be named to the all-conference team three times.  Parker was selected in the second round (63rd overall) of the 1994 NFL draft by the Chargers.  His rookie year, the Chargers won the AFC Championship and faced San Francisco in Super Bowl XXIX.  Parker spent ten seasons playing for the Chargers, with his final season (2003) there cut short by a season-ending knee injury.  He signed with the Redskins for the 2004 season and appeared in one game before being waived at the conclusion of the season.
Vaughn successfully earned an Executive MBA through the University of Southern California in May 2017. In November 2017, Parker was officially recognized by his hometown for his sports achievements when he was inducted into the Greater Buffalo Sports Hall of Fame. He currently lives in San Diego, California.


== References ==


== External links ==
Vaughn Parker's page at NFL.com

Nuvuktiqpaaraaluk (Inuktitut syllabics: ᓄᕗᒃᑎᖅᐹᕌᓗᒃ) formerly Nuvursirpaaraaluk Island is an uninhabited island located in the Qikiqtaaluk Region, Nunavut, Canada. It is a Baffin Island offshore island in Hudson Strait. The closest community is Kimmirut, 17 km (11 mi) away.
Other islands in the immediate vicinity include: Lavoie Island, Wishart Island, Black Bluff Island, Kaavvijjuaq, Qaqqannalik, Poodlatee Island, Anguttuaq, Aulatsiviit, Ijjuriktuq, Ivvitsa, Takijualuk, Kinngarjuaq, and Uugalautiit Island.


== References ==

Clemilda Fernandes Silva (born June 25, 1979) is a Brazilian cycle racer, who is currently suspended from the sport.


== Career ==
Born in São Félix do Araguaia, Mato Grosso, Fernandes scored three consecutive wins in the Copa América de Ciclismo in 2005, 2006 and 2007. She competed in the Women's road race at the 2008 Summer Olympics, finishing in 51st place.  At the 2012 Summer Olympics in the Women's road race, finishing 23rd, and in the Women's time trial, finishing 18th.
She competed at the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro.
In 2019, Fernandes was given an eight-year ban for an anti-doping violation, specific to tampering.


== Major results ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Clemilda Fernandes at Olympics at Sports-Reference.com (archived)
Clemilda Fernandes at Cycling Archives (archive)
Clemilda Fernandes at ProCyclingStats

Hugo ( HEW-goh) is a city 18 miles (29 km) north of downtown Saint Paul in Washington County in the U.S. state of Minnesota. The population was 15,766 at the 2020 census. The city lies north of White Bear Lake on the border of the metropolitan boundary. Hugo and nearby suburbs comprise the northeast portion of Minneapolis-St. Paul, the sixteenth largest metropolitan area in the United States.
The city's largest lake, Oneka Lake, is named for the Dakota word "onakan," which means "to strike or knock off," rice into a canoe. Just south is Rice Lake where Mdewakanton Dakota from Mendota gathered wild rice.


== History ==
Originally settled by French Canadians, Hugo early on established itself as a refueling station for the Lake Superior and Mississippi Railroad (later the Northern Pacific Railway). Located in Oneka township, the community was first named Centerville Station and finally Hugo. The naming of Hugo is still uncertain. Local histories point to the French novelist, Victor Hugo, as its namesake due to the abundance of French-Canadian settlers in the area and the writer's tremendous popularity at the time. Duluth mayor, Trevanion William Hugo, is also said to have given Hugo its name; however, the name "Hugo" was already being used by the village post office before Trevanion Hugo emigrated from Canada. The Oneka Township surrounding the area was also named by the French-Canadians settling the area. Oneka was derived from the Dakota word "onakan" meaning to strike or knock off rice into a canoe. The village incorporated in 1906 and was officially incorporated as a city in 1972. After 2000, Hugo had absorbed significant suburban growth and development to become the thriving city it is today.


== Geography ==
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 36.02 square miles (93.29 km2); 33.45 square miles (86.64 km2) is land and 2.57 square miles (6.66 km2) is water.
The city is bound by Elmcrest Avenue North on its west, Keystone Avenue North on its east, 180th Street North on its north, and 120th Street North on its south.  A major route within the city is U.S. Highway 61, which runs north–south. Interstate 35E is not within the city limits, but is heavily used by Hugo residents.  It is located just west of Hugo. Washington County Road 8/Anoka County Road 14 connects U.S. 61 to Interstate 35E.


== Demographics ==


=== 2020 census ===
As of the 2020 census, Hugo had a population of 15,766. The median age was 39.0 years. 26.1% of residents were under the age of 18 and 13.9% of residents were 65 years of age or older. For every 100 females there were 97.0 males, and for every 100 females age 18 and over there were 94.0 males age 18 and over.
82.6% of residents lived in urban areas, while 17.4% lived in rural areas.
There were 5,939 households in Hugo, of which 35.7% had children under the age of 18 living in them. Of all households, 58.5% were married-couple households, 13.6% were households with a male householder and no spouse or partner present, and 21.5% were households with a female householder and no spouse or partner present. About 21.9% of all households were made up of individuals and 8.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.
There were 6,148 housing units, of which 3.4% were vacant. The homeowner vacancy rate was 1.1% and the rental vacancy rate was 4.9%.


=== 2010 census ===
At the 2010 census there were 13,332 people in 4,990 households, including 3,704 families, in the city. The population density was 398.6 inhabitants per square mile (153.9/km2). There were 5,189 housing units at an average density of 155.1 per square mile (59.9/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 94.2% White, 0.7% African American, 0.3% Native American, 3.1% Asian, 0.6% from other races, and 1.0% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 2.2%.
Of the 4,990 households 40.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 60.8% were married couples living together, 9.2% had a female householder with no husband present, 4.2% had a male householder with no wife present, and 25.8% were non-families. 19.6% of households were one person and 3.8% were one person aged 65 or older. The average household size was 2.67 and the average family size was 3.09.
The median age was 33.7 years. 27.9% of residents were under the age of 18; 6.3% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 33.9% were from 25 to 44; 24.2% were from 45 to 64; and 7.8% were 65 or older. The gender makeup of the city was 49.2% male and 50.8% female.


=== 2000 census ===
At the 2000 census there were 6,363 people in 2,125 households, including 1,742 families, in the city.  The population density was 187.2 inhabitants per square mile (72.3/km2).  There were 2,174 housing units at an average density of 64.0 per square mile (24.7/km2).  The racial makeup of the city was 97.76% White, 0.18% African American, 0.42% Native American, 1.03% Asian, 0.05% Pacific Islander, 0.20% from other races, and 0.53% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.05%.
Of the 2,125 households 45.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 71.5% were married couples living together, 6.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 18.0% were non-families. 12.7% of households were one person and 2.6% were one person aged 65 or older.  The average household size was 2.99 and the average family size was 3.30.
The age distribution was 31.3% under the age of 18, 6.5% from 18 to 24, 34.6% from 25 to 44, 22.7% from 45 to 64, and 4.9% 65 or older.  The median age was 34 years. For every 100 females, there were 104.7 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 105.6 males.
The median household income was $63,450 and the median family income  was $65,222. Males had a median income of $44,069 versus $31,110 for females. The per capita income for the city was $24,334.  About 1.4% of families and 1.5% of the population were below the poverty line, including 0.9% of those under age 18 and 6.1% of those age 65 or over.


== Notable people ==


== See also ==
Withrow, Minnesota


== References ==


== External links ==
City website
The Citizen newspaper site

Golden West Broadcasting Ltd. is a Canadian radio and digital media company based in Altona, Manitoba. It is the largest independent radio broadcaster in Canada. The company primarily operates small-market radio stations and internet portals in the Prairie provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan and Manitoba.


== History ==
Golden West Broadcasting was founded as Southern Manitoba Broadcasting (SMB) on March 13, 1957 when CFAM signed on in Altona with eleven employees.
The company opened its first FM station in 1962 to serve the Winnipeg area, known as CFMW, but the station was later sold to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation in 1965.
Despite losing money in the Winnipeg market, SMB began to expand its AM coverage in rural areas, starting with CHSM in Steinbach in 1964. The new station initially simulcast from CFAM, launching its own programming ten years later.
In 1974, the company adopted the Golden West Broadcasting name after acquiring Frontier City Broadcasting and its stations in Swift Current and Shaunavon, marking the company's first expansion outside of Manitoba.
Golden West re-entered the FM market in 1998 with CILT-FM in Steinbach.


== Radio stations ==


== Other operations ==
On October 28, 2004, Canadian Satellite Radio announced a partnership with both Golden West Broadcasting and Rawlco Communications that would give the two broadcasting companies the option to acquire an ownership interest in CSR should its satellite radio application be approved by the CRTC.
In a press release for the announcement, Elmer Hildebrand, CEO of Golden West Broadcasting, stated:

"Satellite radio has the potential to deliver enormous positive impact to Canadians at all levels of this industry - musicians, artists, and listeners alike.  I am happy to participate in this application which I believe will have a positive impact on commercial radio, and given this technological development, it is important to license and regulate it in Canada expeditiously."
CSR's application and two others were approved on June 16, 2005; CSR's service, XM Radio Canada, launched on December 1, 2005.
Hildebrand owns three radio stations in the city of Saskatoon through Saskatoon Media Group—which are separate from Golden West.
In February 2021, the company acquired the Steinbach-based Summit Organizational Development.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
HOMEFIELD Marketing
Summit Organizational Development
History of Golden West Broadcasting Ltd. Archived 2010-04-19 at the Wayback Machine - Canadian Communications Foundation

Billy Thompson (born September 24, 1982) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey goaltender.


== Career ==
Thompson made his junior hockey debut in the 1998–99 season with the Prince George Cougars of the WHL, although he only played part of one game. He started one more game the following season. For three seasons between 2000 and 2003, he played 149 games with the Cougars, compiling a win-loss record of 64 wins and 69 losses.
He was drafted in the 5th round (136th overall) of the 2001 NHL entry draft by the Florida Panthers. On October 1, 2002, the Panthers traded him to the Ottawa Senators along with Greg Watson for goaltender Jani Hurme. He made his professional hockey debut that season with the AHL's Binghamton Senators, winning the sole game he played.
Thompson served as the backup to Ray Emery for the next two seasons at Binghamton. He played 34 games each year with a total record of 32 and 22 in that span. Thompson was called up to Ottawa for the first time in his career on February 27, 2006, to serve as the backup when starting goalie Dominik Hašek was injured, though he ultimately did not see any game action.
He would spend the 2006-07 season with the AHL's Bridgeport Sound Tigers before moving on to the Victoria Salmon Kings of the ECHL in 2007-08. In September, 2008, he signed with the Dutch Eredevisie Destil Trappers, and left the club on April 24, 2009.
Thompson last played with Les Gothiques d'Amiens in Ligue Magnus (first division of France), in 2012.
After his hockey career Thompson moved to Kelowna, British Columbia and became a Chartered Accountant, receiving an honour roll standing on his final exam.


== Awards and honours ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or Eurohockey.com, or The Internet Hockey Database

Vučo (pronounced [vuːt͡ʃo]; Serbian: Вучо) is a Serbian surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Biljana Kovačević-Vučo (1952–2010), Serbian activist
Olivera Vučo (born 1940), Serbian actress, singer, and writer


== See also ==
All pages with titles containing Vuco

Berkeley Media Studies Group (BMSG) conducts research on the influence of mass media over public health and social issues. The BMSG works with community groups, journalists, and public health professionals to use "the power of the media" to advance healthy public policy. BMSG's goal is to use their research to support media and policy efforts of public health advocates. It was founded in 1993 in Berkeley, California, by Lawrence Wallack, DrPH, then-professor of public health at the University of California at Berkeley, and Lori Dorfman, DrPH. It is a project of the Public Health Institute of Oakland, California.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Public Health Institute

Out of the Inkwell is a 1938 Max Fleischer/Betty Boop live-action and animated short film. The title and concept for the film were a tribute to the Out of the Inkwell series of films that Max Fleischer had produced during the 1920s.


== Synopsis ==
A live-action black janitor, played by Oscar Polk, best known for his portrayal as the servant "Pork" in the 1939 film Gone with the Wind, studies hypnotism from a book while cleaning Max Fleischer's desk at the Fleischer studio. He manages to conjure Max's pen into drawing Betty Boop. In a sequence of animation mixed with live-action, he uses his new powers to control the white animated Boop.  She in turn is able to control a small dog. After waking from the spell, Betty manages to work a few more spells. Fraught with racial innuendo, one of her tricks includes turning the black man white for a split-second, after which he begins cleaning in overdrive.  Before that, he was sleeping on his broom and sweeping dirt under the carpet.  At the end, Betty Boop leaps into a bottle of black ink.


== Reception ==
Boxoffice (March 24, 1938): "Mostly juvenile appeal. That popular Max Fleischer animated stunt is used here, but their results are far from effective. There is a colored porter, who picks up hypnotism from a book lying on a cartoonist's desk. He brings the pen to life with an unaided drawing of Betty Boop. Betty watches the porter tire at his work and then hypnotized him into doing the work at a speedy clip."
Motion Picture Exhibitor (May 1, 1938): "The Boops will not be distributed by Paramount next year. This entrant will do nothing to make any exhibitor regret the company's decision. It has novelty, true, but of the old days."


== References ==


== External links ==
Out of the Inkwell on Youtube
Out of the Inkwell at IMDb
Out of the Inkwell at The Big Cartoon Database.

The Sigma 24-35mm F2 DG HSM Art is an interchangeable camera lens announced by Sigma Corporation on June 19, 2015.


== References ==
http://www.dpreview.com/products/sigma/lenses/sigma_24-35_2/specifications

Deva Varaprasad is an Indian politician from Andhra Pradesh. He is a member of Janasena Party. He has been elected as the Member of the Legislative Assembly representing the Razole Assembly constituency in 2024 Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly elections.


== References ==

Hiroyuki Ikeuchi (池内 博之, Ikeuchi Hiroyuki; born November 24, 1976) is a Japanese actor. Ikeuchi's mother is Salvadoran and his father is Japanese. He is an avid martial artist, notably holding a black belt in judo, and is also a keen fisherman.


== Career ==
Ikeuchi played a supporting role as General Miura in Wilson Yip's Ip Man. He also appeared in Kiyoshi Kurosawa's Charisma.


== Filmography ==


=== Film ===
Tokimeki Memorial (1997)
Dream Studium (1997)
Blues Harp (1999)
Charisma (1999)
Space Travelers (2000)
Chicken Heart (2002)
The Boat to Heaven (2003)
Karaoke Terror (2003)
Warau Iemon (2004)
Female (2005)
Hazard (2005)
Love My Life (2006)
Dolphine Blue (2007)
X-Cross (2007)
Ip Man (2008)
Team Batista no Eikō (2008)
The Handsome Suit (2008)
Otonari (2009)
Space Battleship Yamato (2010)
The Wrath of Vajra (2013)
S The Last Policeman - Recovery of Our Future (2015)
Railroad Tigers (2016)
A Sower of Seeds 3 (2016)
Manhunt (2017)
Eating Women (2018)
The Battle: Roar to Victory (2019)
Limbo (2021)
Yaksha: Ruthless Operations (2022), Yoshinobu Ozawa
Sadako DX (2022), Kenshin
Lightning Over the Beyond (2022)
Night Flower (2025), Ichiro Yanagi
Golden Kamuy: The Abashiri Prison Raid (2026), Kiroranke


=== Television dramas ===
GTO (1998) (Kunio Murai)
GTO Revival (2024)
Beautiful Life (1999)
Shinsengumi! (2004) - Kusaka Genzui
Tatta Hitotsu no Koi (2006)
Sengoku Jieitai: Sekigahara no Tatakai (2006)
Bambino (2007)
Yae's Sakura (2013) - Kajiwara Heima
Hero 2 (2014)
Kaitō Yamaneko (2016) - Katsuaki Inui
24 Japan (2020) - Takumi Nanjō
Giver Taker (2023) - Kaname Imai
Golden Kamuy: The Hunt of Prisoners in Hokkaido (2024) - Kiroranke
Apollo's Song (2025) - Enoki
Alice in Borderland (2025) - Kazuya


=== Net drama ===
Informa (Abema, 2024) Takuma Onizuka


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Hiroyuki Ikeuchi at IMDb

In molecular biology, glycoside hydrolase family 24 is a family of glycoside hydrolases.
Glycoside hydrolases EC 3.2.1. are a widespread group of enzymes that hydrolyse the glycosidic bond between two or more carbohydrates, or between a carbohydrate and a non-carbohydrate moiety. A classification system for glycoside hydrolases, based on sequence similarity, has led to the definition of >100 different families. This classification is available on the CAZy web site, and also discussed at CAZypedia, an online encyclopedia of carbohydrate active enzymes.
Glycoside hydrolase family 24 CAZY GH_24 comprises enzymes with only one known activity; lysozyme (EC 3.2.1.17). This family includes lambda phage lysozyme and Escherichia coli T4 phage endolysin. Lysozyme helps to release mature phage particles from the cell wall by breaking down the peptidoglycan. The enzyme hydrolyses the 1,4-beta linkages between N-acetyl-D-glucosamine and N-acetylmuramic acid in peptidoglycan heteropolymers of prokaryotic cell walls. E. coli endolysin also functions in bacterial cell lysis and acts as a transglycosylase. The T4 lysozyme structure contains 2 domains, the interface between which forms the active-site cleft. The N-terminus of the 2 domains undergoes a 'hinge-bending' motion about an axis passing through the molecular waist. This mobility is thought to be important in allowing access of substrates to the enzyme active site.


== References ==

LEED for Neighborhood Development (LEED-ND), where "LEED" stands for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design, is a United States–based rating system that integrates the principles of smart growth, urbanism, and green building into a national system for neighborhood design. LEED certification provides independent, third-party verification that a development's location and design meet accepted high levels of environmentally responsible, sustainable development.
The LEED-ND system is a collaboration between the United States Green Building Council, the Congress for the New Urbanism, and the Natural Resources Defense Council.


== Significance of LEED-ND certification ==
LEED for Neighborhood Development recognizes development projects that successfully protect and enhance the overall health, natural environment, and quality of life. The rating system encourages smart growth and New Urbanism best practices by:

Promoting the location and design of neighborhoods that reduce vehicle miles travelled (VMT)
Creating developments where jobs and services are accessible by foot or public transit
Promoting an array of green building and green infrastructure practices, particularly for more efficient energy and water use
Protecting and conserving habitat, wetlands, water bodies, and prime agricultural lands through the maintenance of natural areas and "smart location" choices
Cities are increasingly using LEED-ND certification to accelerate the development of certified projects.


== Project types ==
LEED for Neighborhood Development is designed to certify exemplary development projects that perform well in terms of smart growth, urbanism, and green building. Projects may constitute whole neighborhoods, portions of neighborhoods, or multiple neighborhoods. Projects are often mixed-use, though small single-use projects that complement existing neighborhood uses may also use the rating system. Local jurisdictions should not use LEED-ND as a replacement for comprehensive planning, however, many local jurisdictions may find that LEED for Neighborhood Development is a meaningful tool to help promote sustainable land development if incentivized or used as a guideline when revising local codes and regulations.


== Site types ==
Before categorization, the neighborhood is defined by its site type depending on "where the boundary is set, the status of land inside the boundary, and the status of properties surrounding the boundary." The following sites are acceptable for LEED-ND:

Previously developed land has to have been at least 75% complete prior to the construction of the new LEED certified ND.
Infill sites
Sites adjacent to existing developments


== Credit categories ==
The following credit categories are included in the rating system:

Smart Location and Linkage
Encourages communities to consider location, transportation alternatives, and preservation of sensitive lands while also discouraging sprawl. In order to qualify as a smart location, the project must "...be located (1) on an infill site; (2) within walking distance of public transit stops; (3) in an areas with preexisting shops, services, and facilities; or (4) on a site where evidence shows that the average per capita rate of vehicle miles traveled will be lower than that for the metropolitan region as a whole."
Neighborhood Pattern and Design
Emphasizes vibrant, equitable communities that are healthy, walkable and mixed-use.
Green Infrastructure and Buildings
Promotes the design and construction of buildings and infrastructure that reduce energy and water use, while promoting more sustainable use of materials, reuse of existing and historic structures, and other sustainable best practices.
Innovation and Design Process
Recognizes exemplary and innovative performance reaching beyond the existing credits in the rating system, as well as the value of including an accredited professional on the design team.
Regional Priority
Encourages projects to focus on earning credits of significance to the project's local environment.


== Stages of certification ==
LEED for Neighborhood Development differs from other commercial and residential LEED rating systems as it has three stages of certification that relate to phases of real-estate development:

Stage 1: Conditionally Approved Plan
Provides the conditional approval of a LEED-ND Plan available for projects before they have completed the entitlements, or public review, process. It is envisioned that completing Stage 1 will help projects get support from the local government and from the community.
Stage 2: Pre-Certified Plan
Pre-certifies a LEED-ND plan and is applicable for fully entitled projects or projects under construction. Completing this review can help projects secure financing, expedited permitting or attract tenants.
Stage 3: Certified Neighborhood Development
Completed projects formally apply for LEED certification to recognize that the project has achieved all the prerequisites and credits attempted.


== LEED-ND and other LEED rating systems ==
All LEED-ND projects are required to have at least one certified green building – "the LEED rating for new construction requires developers to complete a detailed checklist and awards 64 possible points for green building practices". Basic certification requires 40-49 points, silver 50-59 points, gold 60-79 points, and 80+ points for platinum certification. Points are also available within the LEED for Neighborhood Development rating system for having certified green buildings in the development and for integrating green building and infrastructure practices within the project. These credits relate to energy efficiency, reduced water use, building reuse, recycled materials, and heat island reduction.


== References ==

Kenneth "Ken" Henry Llewellyn Richards (29 January 1934 – 8 January 1972) was a Welsh rugby union and professional rugby league footballer who played in the 1960s. He played representative level rugby union (RU) for Wales, and at club level for Bedwas RFC, Cardiff RFC and Bridgend RFC, as a fly-half, and club level rugby league (RL) for Salford. Noted for his drop-goals, Ken Richards would often take penalties and conversions using the drop goal method rather than placing the ball, during September 1961 he scored a drop goal penalty against Doncaster from 55 yards (50 metres).


== Background ==
Ken Richards born in Bridgend, Wales, he was a pupil at Bridgend Grammar School, and he died in Bridgend, Wales.


== International honours ==
Ken Richards won caps for Wales (RU) while at Bridgend RFC in 1960 against South Africa, and in 1961 against England, Scotland, Ireland, and France.


== References ==


== External links ==
Search for "Richards" at rugbyleagueproject.org
Statistics at wru.wales (RU)
Statistics at bedwasrfc.co.uk
Search for "Kenneth Richards" at britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk
Search for "Ken Richards" at britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk
The greatest ever Bridgend XV
Image "Wales 1961 - Wales 6 England 3 - Cardiff Arms Park - 21st January 1961" at rugbyrelics.com

The District Council of Pirie was a local government area in South Australia from 1892 to 1996. It surrounded, but did not include, the city of Port Pirie, which had its own municipal government as the City of Port Pirie.
The District Council was proclaimed on 16 June 1892, when the portion of the Hundred of Pirie not included in the Corporate Town (later City) of Port Pirie, the Hundred of Wandearah and the northern portions of the Hundreds of Napperby and Howe was excised from the District Council of Crystal Brook and formed into its own municipality. The council decided to purchase land for a council chambers in David Street, Port Pirie at its second meeting in August, with the 25 ft by 17 ft wood and iron building open by October of that year. The council was divided into three wards in 1897 (Pirie, Wandearah and Napperby), each electing two councillors.  It was to have only two clerks in its first fifty years: Edwin Ebenezer Davis until his 1928 death, followed by Edwin Rule Glasson.
The inaugural boundaries were similarly described in 1936, when the council was reported to control a total area of 248,000 acres. In that year, it had a population of 2,100, with 616 ratepayers, electing councillors from three wards. In February 1936, a replacement council office was built at a cost of £400 after the first offices were reported to have "almost collapsed". It was reported on the council's golden jubilee in 1942 that it had spent £150,000 on main roads over the course of its history.
The council ceased to exist in July 1996, when it merged into the City of Port Pirie. The merged municipality subsequently amalgamated with the District Council of Crystal Brook-Redhill to form the Port Pirie Regional Council in March 1997.


== Chairmen ==
E. H. Eagle (1892–1903)
W. S. Fidge (1903–1909)
W. Smith (1909–1911)
A. J. Dennis (1911–1913)
T. Johns (1913–1914)
G. Ferme (1914–1918)
D. L. McEwen (1918–1919)
A. A. Button (1919–1929)
Edwin Boucher Welch (1929–1937)
Andrew Martin Lawrie (1937–1939)
Harold Fulton (Rhen) Welch (1939–1946)
David Charles (Paddy) Ferme (1946–1953)
Henry Boucher (Harry) Welch (1953–1955)
Angus Vivian Bain (1955–1963)
David Charles (Paddy) Ferme (1963–1978)
Victor Albert Hannan (1978-?)


== References ==

T-Systems International GmbH, trading as T-Systems, is an internationally operating service provider for information technologies and digital transformation. The company is part of Deutsche Telekom and is headquartered in Frankfurt am Main.
As of 2012, T-Systems was the largest German and one of the largest European IT services companies, serving customers such as WestLB, Old Mutual, Daimler, Volkswagen, Royal Dutch Shell, Sanlam, Murray & Roberts, BP, TUI AG, De Agostini, Philips, MAN SE, Airbus, E.ON. and British American Tobacco.
The company operates in more than 20 countries and in 2015 employed 45,990 people, in 2003 were approximately 50,000 people worldwide, among them around 27,000 in Germany and 23,000 outside. Beginning in December 2007 Reinhard Clemens was the CEO. Before that, he had been president of EDS (now HP Enterprise Services) Germany since 2003. Since January 2018 Adel Al-Saleh has been the CEO of T-Systems.
In June 2018, T-Systems announced it will cut 10,000 jobs in 3 years, including 6,000 in Germany, with the hope of returning the company to profitability.


== History ==

T-Systems was founded in 2000, when Deutsche Telekom acquired a 50.1% stake of debis Systemhaus, one of the largest IT services companies in Germany at the time. Most of Deutsche Telekom's existing service and IT businesses were then merged and incorporated under the control of one single company, the newly founded T-Systems. In 2001 T-System's headquarters were moved from Bonn to Frankfurt. In 2002 the remaining 49.9% share of debis Systemhaus was acquired and fully incorporated into T-Systems.
However, the company underwent a leadership crisis during the first years after its creation, due to different agendas of the former debis management and the leadership of the former Telekom subsidiaries. Since then, T-Systems made a number of acquisitions, most notably the purchase of gedas, the IT subsidiary of Volkswagen Group in December 2005. From 2007 to 2018, Reinhard Clemens was T-Systems' CEO. T-Systems also supported the creation of Silicon Saxony, a major IT cluster in Germany.
In 2008 T-Systems and the Cognizant global IT services provider entered into a global alliance. T-Systems' India operations were taken over by Cognizant following this alliance in late March 2008. T-Systems is also working for the German government and a market leader in Germany.
In 2009, T-Systems came with another wing in India (T-Systems ICT India Pvt. Ltd.) to support its global partners. T-Systems ICT India has its head office in Pune with another 'Point of Production' in Bengaluru established in April 2016 and a 'Cloud and Digital Centre' at Nagpur established in 2022 in partnership with Tech Mahindra. Since January 2022, Anant Padmanabhan is the managing director of T-Systems ICT India.
In 2020, T-Systems employed more than 28,000 people in 20 countries and generated annual sales of EUR 4.2 billion.


== International subsidiaries ==

T-Systems has different International Subsidiaries such as:

T-Systems Austria GmbH (Austria)
T-Systems Belgium NV (Belgium)
T-Systems do Brasil Ltda (Brasil)
T-Systems France SAS (France)
Deutsche Telekom IT Solutions Hungary (Hungary)
T-Systems Luxembourg S.A. (Luxembourg)
T-Systems México S.A. de C.V. (Mexico)
T-Systems Nederland B.V. (Netherlands)
T-Systems Nordic TC A/S (Nordics: Denmark, Finland, Norway & Sweden)
T-Systems North America, Inc (USA and Canada)
T-Systems Polska Sp.z o.o. (Poland)
T-Systems ICT Romania S.R.L. (Romania)
T-Systems Singapore Pte Ltd (Singapore)
Deutsche Telekom Systems Solutions Slovakia s.r.o.  (Slovakia)
T-Systems ITC Iberia, S.A (Spain and Portugal)
T-Systems Schweiz AG (Switzerland)
T-Systems ICT India Pvt. Ltd. (India)


== References ==


== External links ==
T-Systems home page

Brevibacterium iodinum is a Gram-positive soil bacterium. It can often be found among the normal cutaneous flora of healthy people, particularly in humid environments, and is only very rarely involved in opportunistic infections. It is also suspected to be a cause of foot odor.
The bacterium produces the antibacterial iodinin.


== References ==


== External links ==
Type strain of Brevibacterium iodinum at BacDive -  the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase

The Paisano Grant was one of twenty-five land grants made in the Brooks County/Jim Wells County area of South Texas by the Spanish and Mexican governments between 1797 and 1835. The San Salvador del Tule Grant was the earliest on November 8, 1797, given to Juan Jose Balli. Other important early grants included El Encino en el Poso, made to Luciano Chapa around 1827. The Paisano Grant was also a key grant in the area, with 11070 acres given to Ramon Garza in 1830. Though many of the families receiving grants settled along the Rio Grande River instead of the isolated area near Jim Wells County, Garza kept livestock on the land, and settled the area near Los Olmos, or present day Falfurrias, Texas.
The original grant consisted of 6184 acres in Jim Wells County, 3456 acres in Kleberg County, and 1430 acres in Brooks County. These grants were intended to help colonization of the area by Mexican and Spanish nationals, and strengthen frontier towns along the Texas border. The Paisano Grant succeeded with Garza building a ranch and settling the area.
Though Garza was granted the land in 1830 and had livestock on it, he was not given ownership until he petitioned the local City Council in July 1835 to secure the title for El Paisano.  The acting Minister of Treasury of Tamaulipas, José Núñez de Cáceres, certified that Jose Antonio Velasquez deposited 25 pesos for Ramon Garza for the official purchase of The Paisano Grant in late 1835.  A ceremony recognizing the possession being given to Garza was held on April 21, 1836.


== References ==

Moshe Pearlman (Hebrew: משה פרלמן; 1911 – 5 April 1986), born Maurice Pearlman, was an Israeli writer.


== Biography ==
He was born in London, England, and his original name was Morris Perlman. His father was born in Minsk, his mother was born in England by an immigrant family who came from Poland.
He studied at the London School of Economics, and was a student of Harold Laski.
He first worked in the 1930s as a journalist, where he was editor of the Zionist Review. In 1936, he emigrated to Israel, and lived in a kibbutz for a year.
He joined the Army of the newly founded state. From 1948 to 1952 he was the first Israeli military spokesman.
In 1960 he retired and devoted himself to literary activity.


== Books ==
What has been happening in Palestine, 1937
The kvutza: a description of the collective settlement in Palestine (with Shalom Wurm), 1943
Mufti of Jerusalem: The Story of Haj Amin El Husseini, 1947 (Victor Gollancz Ltd., London)
Adventure in the Sun: An Informal Account of the Communal Settlements of Palestine, 1947 (Victor Gollancz/Left Book Club, London)
The army of Israel, 1950
The Capture Of Adolf Eichmann, 1961
The capture and trial of Adolf Eichmann, 1963
Historical sites in Israel, 1965
The Zealots of Masada, 1967
Jerusalem; a history of forty centuries (with Teddy Kollek), 1968
In the footsteps of Moses, 1973
The Maccabees, 1973
Digging up the Bible: the stories behind the great archaeological discoveries in the Holy Land, 1980


== References ==

The National Electrical Safety Code (NESC) or ANSI Standard C2 is a United States standard of the safe installation, operation, and maintenance of electric power and communication utility systems including power substations, power and communication overhead lines, and power and communication underground lines. It is published by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE). "National Electrical Safety Code" and "NESC" are registered trademarks of the IEEE.
The NESC should not be confused with the National Electrical Code (NEC), which is published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and intended to be used for residential, commercial, and industrial building wiring.


== Adoption ==
The NESC is written as a voluntary standard. It is typically adopted as law by individual states or other governmental authorities. To determine the legal status of the NESC, the state public service commission, public utility commission, or other governmental authority should be contacted. Most U.S. states adopt the NESC in some form or fashion. The state of California is an exception and writes its own utility codes, titled General Order 95 (GO95) for overhead lines and General Order 128 (GO128) for underground lines.


== Publication ==
The NESC is written by various sub committees. The organizations represented, subcommittees, and committee members are listed in the front of the code book. The NESC contains the procedure and time schedule for revising the NESC, which are described in the back of the code book. The NESC has an interpretation committee that issues formal interpretations. The process for obtaining a formal interpretation is outlined in the front of the code book. The NESC is currently published on a 5-year cycle. Urgent safety matters that require a change in between code editions are handled through a Tentative Interim Amendment (TIA) process. Original work on the NESC began in 1913.


== Structure ==
The NESC is structured into parts, sections, and rules. There are general sections at the beginning of the book covering the introduction, definitions, references, and grounding. Following the general section are four main parts including: substations rules (Part 1), overhead line rules (Part 2), underground line rules (Part 3), and work rules (Part 4).


== Handbooks and other resources ==
Marne, David J. McGraw Hill's National Electrical Safety Code (NESC) 2023 Handbook. McGraw-Hill Education.
The 2023 NESC Handbook represents a next-generation tool for the professional who needs to understand the NESC. The handbook was developed for use at many levels in the electric and communication industries, including those involved in system design, construction, maintenance, inspection, standards development and worker training. This step-by-step guide explains how to apply and meet the NESC rules for electrical supply stations and equipment, as well as overhead and underground electric supply and communications lines.
The 2023 NESC Course Program is a series of online courses that take an in-depth look at the rules, regulations, and changes made in the 2023 NESC Edition. Taught by industry leaders who helped write the standard, these courses provide essential training for safeguarding power utility facilities and the people around them. Available through the IEEE Xplore  digital library and the IEEE Learning Network.


== See also ==
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
IEEE Standards Association


== References ==

The Thunderbolt was a wooden roller coaster located at Coney Island in Brooklyn, New York.  Designed by John Miller, it operated from 1925 until 1982 and remained standing until it was demolished in 2000. The demolition was controversial, as the property owner Horace Bullard was not notified, nor had any formal inspection been done on the structure.
In June 2013, it was announced that a new steel roller coaster would be constructed on Coney Island named the Thunderbolt. The steel coaster opened in 2014 and uses a completely different design.


== In popular culture ==
It was featured briefly in Woody Allen's 1977 film Annie Hall as the boyhood home of Alvy Singer (Allen's character).  The house was a real residence, built in 1895 as the Kensington Hotel. The roller coaster was constructed with part of its track scaling the top of the building.
The indie rock/slowcore band Red House Painters 1993 album, Red House Painters (Rollercoaster) features a sepia toned photograph of the Thunderbolt as its cover art. The last film to photograph the Thunderbolt was Requiem for a Dream. 
In the 1995 IMAX film Across the Sea of Time, the coaster is featured in abandoned condition.
In the 1998 movie He Got Game, Spike Lee features the coaster in its dilapidated state.
In the 2025 video game Old Skies, an area in front of the abandoned rollercoaster is a time travelling landing point from the future back to 1993.


== References ==

The Perth Dance Music Awards (PDMAs) were annual awards held between 1998 and 2013 to recognise achievements in electronic dance music by artists, DJs, promoters, and venues in Western Australia. Recipients were voted for by the public across numerous categories, with the final ceremony held in 2013.


== Winners by year ==


=== 2013 ===


=== 2012 ===


=== 2011 ===


=== 2010 ===


=== 2009 and Earlier ===
Summaries of winners from 1998 through 2009 are available in the article’s historic listings. Notable recurring winners include:

Best Club Night – Japan 4
Best Nightclub – Ambar
Best Radio Show – Full Frequency (RTRFM)
Best Event – Breakfest
Recurring names like ShockOne, Pendulum, Downsyde, The Typhoons prominently featured


== References ==


== External links ==
Archived official PDMA website
Wikipedia article with detailed winners list

Fame in the Family is a British reality series that aired on Channel 4 over three weeks beginning 14 March 2022. It is narrated by Pippa Haywood. All episodes are currently available to stream on-demand on All 4.


== Format ==
Four strangers meet up in Manchester Hall for dinner with a surprise celebrity host. At least one of the guests will be related to the host.
Over dinner they talk about their families and play fact-finding games to help them decide whether they could be related to one another.
At the end of the dinner party, the diners hold up a card on which they have written the name or names of who they think is a cousin of the celebrity. The host opens an envelope to reveal the DNA results. If anyone guesses correctly they win a share of a £1,000 cash prize.
The relevant parts of the family tree are then shown on-screen as the narrator explains how the guest or guests share a DNA match.
The show has been both praised and panned  by the press. There has been no announcement yet as to whether it will return for a second series.


== Episodes ==


== Similar programmes ==
The show borrows heavily from another Channel 4 daytime show Come Dine with Me mixed in with the long-running BBC series Who Do You Think You Are? and a touch of the ITV1 series Long Lost Family. According to the end credits, and in line with most genealogy programmes, the DNA results are provided by Ancestry with assistance from family history expert Brad Argent.


== References ==

Roxy Ingram (born 11 May 1982) is a South African model. She has appeared in the 2003, 2004, and 2005 South African Sports Illustrated swimsuit issues.
She has been named number 16 in FHM's coveted 100 Sexiest Women survey in South Africa.
In 2004, she was the girlfriend of English R&B singer Craig David.


== Biography ==
She started school at Aston Manor, Kempton Park, before moving to Cape Town where she attended Table View Primary and Table View High School. She matriculated at Progress College in Rondebosch.
Ingram is the youngest of three siblings. Her older sister Samantha and brother Richard both live in Cape Town.
Her magazine covers include Shape, Health & Fitness, SL, SA Sports Illustrated, and FHM Collections.


== References ==

HMS Juno was a J-class destroyer of the Royal Navy laid down by the Fairfield Shipbuilding and Engineering Company, Limited, at Govan in Scotland on 5 October 1937, launched on 8 December 1938 and commissioned on 25 August 1939. Juno participated in the Battle of Calabria  in July 1940 and the Battle of Cape Matapan in March 1941.


== Construction ==
The eight ships of the J class were ordered on 25 March 1937, and Juno was laid down with the name Jamaica at Fairfield's Govan shipyard on 5 October 1937. The ship was renamed Juno in September 1938 and was launched on 8 December 1938. The ship was completed on 25 August 1939, and was commissioned with the pennant number F46.
Juno was 339 feet 6 inches (103.48 m) long between perpendiculars and 356 feet 6 inches (108.66 m) overall, with a beam of 35 feet 8 inches (10.87 m) and a draught of 9 feet (2.7 m). Displacement was 1,690 long tons (1,720 t) standard and 2,330 long tons (2,370 t) deep load. Two Admiralty three-drum boilers fed steam at 300 pounds per square inch (2,100 kPa) and 620 °F (327 °C) to Parsons to two sets of Parsons single-reduction geared-steam turbines, rated at 40,000 shaft horsepower (30,000 kW). This gave a design speed of 36 knots (67 km/h; 41 mph) at trials displacement and 32 knots (59 km/h; 37 mph) at full load.
As completed, Juno had a main gun armament of six 4.7 in (120 mm) QF Mark XII guns in three twin mountings, two forward and one aft. These guns could only elevate to an angle of 40 degrees, and so were of limited use in the anti-aircraft role, while the aft mount was arranged so that it could fire forwards over the ship's superstructure to maximise the forward firing firepower, but was therefore incapable of firing directly aft. A short range anti-aircraft armament of a four-barrelled 2-pounder "pom-pom" anti-aircraft mount and eight .50 in machine guns in two quadruple mounts was fitted, while torpedo armament consisted of ten 21-inch (533 mm) torpedo tubes in two quintuple mounts. Anti-submarine armament consisted of two depth charge throwers and a single rack, with 20 depth charges carried, while the Two-Speed Destroyer Sweep (TSDS) minesweeping gear could also be carried.


=== Modifications ===
Early in the war, the aft 4.7-inch mount was modified to allow it to fire directly aft, while in mid-1941, the aft set of torpedo tubes was replaced by a single 4 inch (102 mm) Mk V anti-aircraft gun (although this gun was not provided with appropriate fire control and was therefore of limited use). Close-in armament was improved by replacing the .50 in machine guns with 4 single Oerlikon 20 mm cannon.


== Service ==
The initial work-up of the ship and her crew was interrupted by the German invasion of Poland on 1 September 1939, and on 6 September 1939, Juno and sister ships Janus and Jackal escorted the Norwegian steamer SS Batavia, carrying the staff of the British embassy in Berlin across the North Sea from Rotterdam to the Tongue lightship in the Thames estuary. She then resumed training and work up activities based at Devonport for the remainder of September, joining the 7th Destroyer Flotilla based on the Humber and operating off the east coast of Britain, with duties including patrols and escorting convoys. On the night of 6/7 December 1939, Juno and Jersey were on patrol off Cromer when they encountered two German destroyers, Hans Lody and Erich Giese, returning from a minelaying sortie. Juno and Jersey did not spot the two German ships, which launched 7 torpedoes, one of which hit Jersey. Juno in response, searched for a submarine, which was believed to have fired the torpedo, allowing the German destroyers to escape unchallenged. When it was realised that there was no submarine, Juno took Jersey under tow, taking the damaged destroyer to Immingham.
Juno continued in service with the 7th Flotilla until March 1940, with her service interrupted by a refit at Kingston upon Hull from 5 February to 2 March 1940 and by repairs to her feedwater tanks from 9 to 20 March. On 5 April 1940, Juno left Methil together with the destroyers Javelin, Janus and Grenade as escort to the Norway-bound convoy ON.25. The convoy met up with the covering cruisers Manchester and Southampton on 7 April, but later that day, reports of German heavy warships at sea caused the convoy to return to Britain. The reported German ships were, in fact, part of the German fleet taking part in the German invasion of Norway. Juno operated with the Home Fleet through April 1940 in operations to oppose the invasion. On 17 April, Juno, together with Janus, Kipling and Hereward, escorted the cruiser Suffolk as the cruiser shelled the airfield at Sola, Norway. The force came under heavy air attack, and Suffolk was hit by a bomb and badly damaged. On 23 April, Juno left Scapa Flow as part of the escort for the aircraft carriers Ark Royal and Glorious as the carriers provided air cover for landings at Åndalsnes and Namsos, the force returning to Scapa on 3 May.
On 18 May, Juno joined the 14th Destroyer Flotilla with the Mediterranean Fleet. In June, the flotilla participated in sweeps for Italian convoys, and in escorting Allied evacuation convoys MF1 and MS1 from Malta. In July, it carried out a bombardment of Bardia, Libya and participated in the Battle of Calabria. Juno spent the remainder of 1940 escorting convoys to Malta, bombarding Italian shore positions, and accompanying fleet movements including Operation Collar. In January 1941, Juno participated in Operation Excess, and in March took part in the Battle of Cape Matapan. 


=== Fate ===
In May 1941 Juno was part of Force C commanded by Rear Admiral Edward King. With German invasion of Crete being imminent, Force C was ordered to patrol the northern and eastern approaches to the island. On May 20, 1941, Force C proceeded through Kasos Strait, but was quickly detected by the Italian aircraft. At 07:30 on May 21, 1941  2 Italian SM-79 bombers on a reconnaissance mission spotted two cruisers and 4 destroyers of Force C moving at 24 knots in the direction of Rhodos. An attack commenced at 9:50 involved 5 CANT Z.1007bis, 6 SM-84 and 3 SM-79 of Regia Aeronautica, and 17 Ju-87 of III.StG.2 and continued on until approximately 13:50. Force C antiaircraft fire was able to successfully disrupt the majority of the attacks. However, at 12:49 a group of five Italian CANT Z.1007bis aircraft from 210a Squadriglie led by Lt. Mario Morassutti, attacked the formation with 10 250 and 15 100 kg bombs. Juno was hit by 2 100 kg bombs striking the boiler and engine rooms and the aft magazines. The ship capsized and sank within 2 minutes with a loss of 116 men and 104 survivors.


== Notes ==


== References ==
Battle Summary No. 17: Naval Operations of the Campaign in Norway. Naval Staff History: Second World War. Historical Section, Naval Staff, Admiralty. 1951. part 1 of 4 (pp. 1–50), part 2 of 4 (pp. 51–103), part 3 of 4 (pp. 104–167), part 4 of 4 (pp. 169–188). Retrieved 6 January 2025.
Colledge, J. J.; Warlow, Ben (2006) [1969]. Ships of the Royal Navy: The Complete Record of All Fighting Ships of the Royal Navy from the 15th Century to the Present (3rd Rev ed.). London: Chatham Publishing. ISBN 978-1-86176-281-8. OCLC 67375475.
English, John (2001). Afridi to Nizam: British Fleet Destroyers 1937–43. Gravesend, Kent: World Ship Society. ISBN 0-905617-64-9.
Friedman, Norman (2008). British Destroyers and Frigates, the Second World War and After. Barnsley, UK: Seaforth Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84832-015-4.
Haarr, Geirr H. (2013). The Gathering Storm: The Naval War in Northern Europe September 1939 – April 1940. Barnsley, UK: Seaforth Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84832-140-3.
Hodges, Peter; Friedman, Norman (1979). Destroyer Weapons of World War 2. Greenwich: Conway Maritime Press. ISBN 978-0-85177-137-3.
Koop, Gerhard; Schmolke, Klaus-Peter (2014). German Destroyers of World War II. Barnsley, UK: Seaforth Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84832-193-9.
Langtree, Charles (2002). The Kelly's: British J, K, and N Class Destroyers of World War II. Annapolis, Maryland: Naval Institute Press. ISBN 1-55750-422-9.
Lenton, H. T. (1970). Navies of the Second World War: British Fleet & Escort Destroyers Volume One. London: Macdonald & Co. ISBN 0-356-02950-6.
Lenton, H. T. (1998). British & Empire Warships of the Second World War. Annapolis, Maryland: Naval Institute Press. ISBN 1-55750-048-7.
March, Edgar J. (1966). British Destroyers: A History of Development, 1892–1953; Drawn by Admiralty Permission From Official Records & Returns, Ships' Covers & Building Plans. London: Seeley Service. OCLC 164893555.
Whitley, M. J. (2000). Destroyers of World War Two: An Illustrated Encyclopedia. London: Cassell. ISBN 1-85409-521-8.

X Multimedia System (XMMS) is an audio player for Unix-like systems released under a free software license.


== History ==
XMMS was originally written as x11amp by Peter and Mikael Alm in November 1997. The player was made to resemble Winamp, which was first released in May that year. x11amp received Winamp skin support in version 0.7 on May 6, 1998. Though the original release was made under a license that did not provide any access to the program's source code, it is now released under the GPL-2.0-or-later.
On June 10, 1999, 4Front Technologies decided to sponsor x11amp development and the project was renamed to XMMS - the name being an acronym for X MultiMedia System. Most XMMS users take this to mean "X11 MultiMedia System" or "X Window System MultiMedia System"; the official interpretation of the "X" is "Cross-platform".
In 2002, Peter Alm initiated the XMMS2 project, aiming to produce a successor to XMMS using all new code and devoted solely to audio playback.
The final version of the player was released in November 2007. After it its development and support were ceased, modern Linux distributions no longer offer it.


=== Forks ===
XMMS continued to use GTK+ 1.x toolkit, despite newer versions of the toolkit being released. The primary reason for this reluctance to upgrade was that many XMMS plugins (written by third parties) were dependent on the older version of GTK+ to properly function, e.g., "about" boxes and configuration dialogs. Many software developers considered the XMMS codebase to be poorly designed and difficult to maintain. This led to forks and related projects:

The Beep Media Player, a fork of XMMS code that uses GTK+ 2, started around 2003
Youki, the remade continuation of Beep Media Player, started around the end of 2005
Audacious, a fork from Beep Media Player started around 2005 when Beep Media Player development ceased in favor of Youki
A GTK+2 based fork by Mohammed Sameer, named XMMS2. It is unrelated to the current XMMS2 project, which uses a new codebase and client/server architecture not derived from XMMS.
In 2026 Christian Schaller from Red Hat, part of his experiments with AI, revived the project and rewritten it for GTK4/PipeWire. It was named XMMS Resuscitated.


== Features ==

XMMS supported the following audio formats:

AAC support is provided by the FAAD2 library, supporting m4a files
APE Monkey's Audio Codec .ape files — support provided by the mac-port project plugin
Audio CD, including CDDB via FreeDB lookup
FLAC via a plugin
Icecast and SHOUTcast streaming
libmikmod supported formats (including .XM, .MOD, .IT)
JACK plug-in for support of the JACK Audio Connection Kit
ModPlug plug-in for playing .MOD, .S3M, .XM, .IT and other tracker formats
mp3PRO support via a third-party plugin (which does not support SHOUTcast title streaming)
MPEG Layer 1, 2, and 3 (also known as MP3), using the mpg123 library
Musepack support using XMMS-Musepack plugin
OGG Vorbis support via by a plug-in provided by xiph.org
SHN support via a plug-in provided by etree
speex speech compression format via a plugin
TTA support via a third-party plugin
Support for most Amiga music formats via UADE plug-in
WAV support
WavPack support via a third-party plugin
Limited WMA support via a third-party plugin


=== Skins ===

XMMS came with its own skin, but any WSZ (WinAMP 2) classic skin can be used to customize the player.


=== Coverviewer ===

xmms-coverviewer is an XMMS plugin which allows XMMS to display album art and further enhance the graphical interface of the player.


== References ==


== External links ==

Official XMMS website Archived 2010-08-27 at the Wayback Machine
Official XMMS2 website (defunct) Archived March 23, 2010.
XMMS page on XMMS2 website (defunct) Archived April 11, 2010.
XMMS packages for Debian and Ubuntu (outdated)
XMMS2 repository on GitHub

The 2021 Masters Historic Formula One Championship USA was the second season of the Masters Historic Formula One Championship USA. It began at Laguna Seca Raceway on 16 May and will end at Sonoma Raceway on 17 October.


== Cars and Drivers ==


== Race results ==
Bold indicates overall winner.


=== Championships standings ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Tuqa-Temür (also Toqa-Temür and Toghai-Temür, in the Perso-Arabic orthography of the sources rendered Tūqā-Tīmūr or Tūqāy-Tīmūr) was the thirteenth and youngest or penultimate son of Jochi, the eldest son of Genghis Khan. He was a younger brother of Batu Khan and Berke Khan, the rulers of what came to be known as the Golden Horde.


== Career ==
Tuqa-Timur's mother is identified as Jochi's concubine Kaghri Khatun (Kaghrī Khātūn), a woman from the Merkit tribe. As Jochi's apparently youngest son of standing or significance, Tuqa-Timur was perhaps deemed too young to attend the qurultai for the proclamation and enthronement of the great khan Ögedei in 1229. Instead, Tuqa-Timur remained behind in his father's ulus, apparently governing it during the absence of his older brothers at the assembly. When Batu Khan returned, Tuqa-Timur organized a three-day feast in his honor.
Tuqa-Timur subsequently received an ulus of his own from Batu, somewhere within the Left Wing (i.e., eastern portion) of Batu's possessions, that is to say east of the Ural Mountains and Ural River, and perhaps under the intermediate authority of another brother, Orda. Tuqa-Timur participated in Batu's Western Campaign, but does not seem to have played a very distinguished role in it; he is also credited with a leading role in campaigns against the Bashkirs and Alans. He was among the Jochid princes participating in the qurultai at which the great khan Güyük was formally proclaimed and enthroned, in 1246, Batu having refused to attend. After Batu's quriltai that resulted in the proclamation of Möngke as great khan in 1250, Berke and Tuqa-Timur escorted Möngke to Mongolia with an army, and were generously rewarded by the new great khan for their support. Tuqa-Timur appears to have survived Batu and to have died some time after Berke's accession as khan of the Golden Horde in 1257; it is presumed that he was already dead by 1267, when his son Urung-Timur received lands from the new khan Mengu-Timur. The Mongol prince ("tsarevich") Toktemir, who attacked Tver' in Russia in 1294/1295, is a distinct individual, bearing the same or similar name.
Following the example of his older brother Berke, Tuqa-Timur converted to Islam, sometime after Berke's conversion in 1251–1252. Unlike his brothers Batu, Orda, and Shiban, Tuqa-Timur does not appear to have headed an autonomous and lasting territorial polity, something brought up as a negative comparison in disputes between his descendants and those of Shiban in the late 14th century; the Shibanids argued that this made the Tuqa-Timurids substantially inferior. Some of Tuqa-Timur's descendants appear to have remained in the Left Wing (eastern portion) of the Golden Horde, while others were settled in the Right Wing (western portion) when Khan Mengu-Timur gave the Crimea to Tuqa-Timur's son Urung-Timur.


== Family ==
Rashīd ad-Dīn Faḍlallāh and the genealogical compendium Muʿizz al-ansāb  attribute four sons to Tuqa-Timur as follows:

Bāy-Tīmūr
Bāyān
Ūrungbāš or Ūrung-Tīmūr (also Ürüng-Temür, sometimes conflated with Ūz-Tīmūr)
Kay-Tīmūr (also Ked-Temür, elsewhere Ūz-Tīmūr)


== Descendants ==
Apart from his involvement in the affairs of the Golden Horde and his actions as representative of his older brothers, Tuqa-Timur is important as the progenitor of some of the most prolific and historically significant lines of Jochid and Chinggisid descent. From the 1360s, Tuqa-Timur's descendants vied with those of his brother Shiban for possession of the throne of the Golden Horde, starting with the probable Tuqa-Timurid Ordu Malik, who overthrew the Shibanid Timur Khwaja in 1361. A Crimean branch of Tuqa-Timur's descendants furnished the beglerbeg Mamai with a succession of three puppet khans in 1361–1380. Several families descended from Tuqa-Timur ensconced themselves in the former Ulus of Jochi's eldest son Orda in the east, under Qara Noqai in 1360, then Urus Khan in 1369, and finally Tokhtamysh in 1379. The descendants of Urus and Tokhtamysh subsequently disputed possession of the Golden Horde mostly among themselves. Among the successor states of the Golden Horde, the khanates of Kasimov, Kazan, Astrakhan, and the Crimea were all founded by princes descended from Tuqa-Timur. This was also the case with the Kazakh Khanate and, after 1599, the Khanate of Bukhara in Central Asia.


== See also ==
List of khans of the Golden Horde


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Bennigsen, A., et al., Le Khanat de Crimée dans les Archives du Musée de Palais de Topkapı, Paris, 1978.
Bosworth, C. E., The New Islamic Dynasties, New York, 1996.
Bregel, Y. (transl.), Firdaws al-Iqbāl: History of Khorezm by Shir Muhammad Mirab Munis and Muhammad Riza Mirab Agahi, Leiden, 1999.
Burton, A., The Bukharans: A Dynastic, Diplomatic and Commercial History 1550–1702, Richmond, 1997
Desmaisons, P. I. (transl.), Histoire des Mongols et des Tatares par Aboul-Ghâzi Béhâdour Khân, St Petersburg, 1871–1874.
Gaev, A. G., "Genealogija i hronologija Džučidov," Numizmatičeskij sbornik 3 (2002) 9-55.
Howorth, H. H., History of the Mongols from the 9th to the 19th Century. Part II.1. London, 1880.
Jackson, P., The Mongols and the Islamic World, New Haven, 2017.
Judin, V. P., Utemiš-hadži, Čingiz-name, Alma-Ata, 1992.
May, T., The Mongol Empire, Edinburgh, 2018.
Počekaev, R. J., Cari ordynskie: Biografii hanov i pravitelej Zolotoj Ordy. Saint Petersburg, 2010.
Sabitov, Ž. M., Genealogija "Tore", Astana, 2008.
Sabitov, Ž. M., "K voporosu o genealogii zolotoordynskogo hana Bek-Sufi," in Krim: vìd antičnostì do s'ogodennja, Kiev, 2014: 63-74.
Sagdeeva, R. Z., Serebrjannye monety hanov Zolotoj Ordy, Moscow, 2005.
Seleznëv, J. V., Èlita Zolotoj Ordy, Kazan', 2009.
Sidorneko, V. A., Monetnaja čekanka Krymskogo hanstva (1442–1475 gg.), Simferopol', 2016.
Stokvis, A. M. H. J., Manuel d'Histoire, de Généalogie et de Chronologie de tous les États du Globe, depuis les temps les plus reculés jusqu'à nos jours, vol. 1, Leiden, 1888.
Thackston, W. M. (trans.), Rashiduddin Fazlullah's Jamiʻuʼt-tawarikh: Compendium of Chronicles. A History of the Mongols. Part One. Cambridge, MA, 1998.
Tizengauzen, V. G. (trans.), Sbornik materialov, otnosjaščihsja k istorii Zolotoj Ordy. Izvlečenija iz arabskih sočinenii, republished as Istorija Kazahstana v arabskih istočnikah. 1. Almaty, 2005.
Tizengauzen, V. G. (trans.), Sbornik materialov otnosjaščihsja k istorii Zolotoj Ordy. Izvlečenija iz persidskih sočinenii, republished as Istorija Kazahstana v persidskih istočnikah. 4. Almaty, 2006.
Vásáry, I., "The beginnings of coinage in the Blue Horde," Acta Orientalia Academiae Scientiarum Hungaricae 62 (2009) 371-385.
Vohidov, Š. H. (trans.), Istorija Kazahstana v persidskih istočnikah. 3. Muʿizz al-ansāb. Almaty, 2006.
Welsford, T., Four Types of Loyalty in Early Modern Central Asia: The Tūqūy-Tīmūrid Takeover of Greater Mā Warā al-Nahr, 1598-1605, Leiden, 2013.

Boris Asafovich Messerer (Russian: Бори́с Аса́фович Мессере́р; born March 15, 1933, in Moscow) is a Soviet and Russian theater artist, set designer and teacher. President of the association of artists of theater, cinema and television in Moscow.
Academician of the Russian Academy of Arts (1997, Corresponding Member of 1990). People's Artist of the Russian Federation (1993). Winner of two State Prizes of the Russian Federation (1995, 2002). Member of the USSR Union of Artists in 1960, Union of Theatre Workers of the Russian Federation and Union of Cinematographers of the Russian Federation. In 2016 he became a member of the Board of Trustees Fazil Iskander International Literary Award


== Family ==
He was born to ballet dancer, teacher and choreographer Asaf Messerer and silent film actress Anel Sudakevich. The ballerina Sulamith Messerer and the actress Rachel Messerer were his paternal aunts and the actor Azary Azarin his paternal uncle. Through his aunt Rachel he was cousin to Maya Plisetskaya, Alexander Plisetski and Azary Plisetski.
He was married twice. From his first wife, Nina Chistova, he had his only child, Alexander Messerer. His son is a painter and has seven children. His second wife was poet and translator Bella Akhmadulina. They were married from 1974 to her death in 2010. Boris was her fourth husband.


== Awards ==
1995 —  State Prize of the Russian Federation in the field of fine art
2001 —  Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Arts
2002 —  State Prize of the Russian Federation in the field of design
2003 —  Order of Honour
2008 —  Crystal Turandot
2008 —  Order "For Merit to the Fatherland" 4th class 
2013 —  Order of Friendship


== References ==


== External links ==
Страница  на сайте  РАХ
ТВ-интервью 2009 года

Franz-Josef Selig (born 11 July 1962) is a German operatic bass.


== Career ==
Born in Mayen, Selig studied at the Musikhochschule Köln, first church music, later voice. During his studies already, he was accepted in 1989 as a member of the Aalto-Theater, the opera of Essen, where he stayed until 1995. He performed as a guest at notable opera houses in Germany, Europe and the US, such as the Vienna State Opera, the Royal Opera House in London, La Scala, the Hamburg State Opera, both Opéra Bastille and Théâtre du Châtelet in Paris, the Metropolitan Opera, La Monnaie in Brussels, Deutsche Oper Berlin, Bavarian State Opera, Frankfurt Opera and the Opéra National de Lyon. He focused on roles by Richard Wagner such as Marke in Tristan und Isolde and Gurnemanz  in Parsifal. His roles have also included Sarastro in Mozart's Die Zauberflöte, Osmin in his Die Entführung aus dem Serail, Rocco in Beethoven's Fidelio, and Fiesco in Verdi's Simon Boccanegra.
Selig made his debut at the Bayreuth Festival in 2012 as Daland in Der fliegende Holländer.  In 2013, he added there the role of Hunding in Die Walküre. In the 2013/14 season, he first performed in Handel's Agrippina, and in Toulouse in Daphne by Richard Strauss. He has also performed recitals of Lieder.
For television, Selig sang the Bruckner Te Deum in 2007 with the WDR Symphony Orchestra Cologne, WDR Rundfunkchor Köln, NDR Chor, under the direction of Gilbert Levine.  Selig has recorded commercially for such labels as PENTATONE, Deutsche Grammophon, and LSO Live.


== Awards ==
1992: Aalto-Bühnenpreis für junge Künstler
2012: Kulturpreis der Stadt Neuwied
2013: Honorary member of the Koblenz Richard-Wagner-Verband


== External links ==
Literature by and about Franz-Josef Selig in the German National Library catalogue
Franz-Josef Selig at IMDb
Biografie KünstlerSekretariat am Gasteig


== References ==

Red Army Military Law Academy (later Soviet Army Military Law Academy) (Russian: Военно-юридическая академия Красной Армии (Совеской Армии)) is a military higher educational institution of the Soviet Army that was designed to train officers for military tribunals and military prosecutor's offices, being active from November 5, 1939 to May 18, 1956. It was formed the base of the Military Law Department of the All-Union Law Academy. It was then transformed into the Military Law Department of the Lenin Military-Political Academy, and was eventually inherited by the Military University of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation.


== External links ==
RF DM Military academy website (in Russian)


== References ==

The Sugar Alliance of the Philippines is a non-profit, industry association of the sugar industry of the Philippines. It is the biggest group of sugar planters and millers in the Philippines.  Bloomberg says the alliance "works to promote better relations between sugar planters and millers, addressing industry problems, and other issues concerning the sugar industry."   Its headquarters is located in Makati, Metro Manila, Philippines.
The  Sugar Anti-Smuggling Organization is part of the alliance.
Members of the alliance include National Federation of Sugarcane Planters, the Unifed, the Panay Fed and Confed.
The Philippine Sugar Millers Association is a separate organization.


== References ==

Bard is an unincorporated community in Quay County, New Mexico, United States.


== Description ==
Bard is located at Exit 361 off Interstate 40, about 31 miles (50 km) east of Tucumcari, the county seat of Quay County. From October 8, 1909, to April 23, 1913, the community was officially known as Bard City. Bard had a post office from January 30, 1908, to November 26, 1991; it still has its own ZIP code, 88411. The town also had a gas station and repair garage. In 1946, Bard had a population of 26.


== See also ==
 New Mexico portal


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Bard, New Mexico at Wikimedia Commons

Bahal may refer to:

Bahal, Cambodia
Bahal, India
Bahal, Indonesia, a village in North Sumatra, Indonesia
Bahal temple, an 11th-century Buddhist temple in Bahal, Indonesia
Bahal, Iran
Bahal, Nepal, a type of courtyard
Bahal Tambunan, Indonesian geoscientist
Seniehun or Bahal, Sierra Leone
Te Bahal, the largest bahal (courtyard) in Kathmandu, Nepal
Bahal, an alcoholic drink that is a precursor to the bahalina palm wine of the Philippines

Olathe East High School is a public high school located in Olathe, Kansas, United States, serving students in grades 9–12. The school is one of five high schools in the Olathe USD 233 school district. Olathe East is a member of the Kansas State High School Activities Association and offers a variety of sports programs.  Athletic teams compete in the 6A division and are known as the "Hawks". Extracurricular activities are also offered in the form of performing arts, school publications, and clubs.  The school colors are orange and navy blue, and the school's mascot is the Hawk.


== History ==
The school opened in the fall of 1992 in order to help educate the rapidly increasing population of Olathe.
Olathe East was recognized as a National School of Excellence in 1998 by the U.S. Department of Education.
On March 4, 2022, there was a school shooting on campus by a student. A school resource officer and an administrator were injured, as was the shooter. No other faculty members or students were harmed in the shooting. The suspect was put in custody by the police.


== Academics ==
In 1997, Olathe East High School was selected as a Blue Ribbon School. The Blue Ribbon Award recognizes public and private schools which perform at high levels or have made significant academic improvements.
Olathe East has continuously had the highest composite standardized test scores in the district. In the 2006–2007 school year, East had a composite ACT score of 23.8, beating the national average of 21.2. On the SAT, the average score was a 604 on the Critical Reading section and a 614 on the Math section. These scores were also much higher than the national average of 503 on the Critical Reading and 518 on the Mathematics section.


== Extracurricular activities ==
The Hawks compete in the Sunflower League and are classified as a 6A school, the largest classification in Kansas according to the Kansas State High School Activities Association. Throughout its history, Olathe East has won 55 state championships in various sports, more than any other olathe school combined.


=== Athletics ===


==== Soccer ====
The boys' team has won five state championships, occurring in 1996, 2005, 2014, 2018, 2023, and 2024 and the girls' team has won four state championships, occurring in 2001, 2004, 2008, and 2012.


==== Boys' Swimming & Diving ====
The Olathe East boys' swimming & diving team won the state championship in 2009.


==== Softball ====
The Hawks have consistently been one of the best softball teams in Kansas, winning state championships in 1998, 2001, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2012, and 2013. In 2007, the Hawks set a new KSHSAA record for most consecutive state championships won in softball. Five players have been awarded the Gatorade Kansas Softball Player of the Year, Allison Stewart (2012, 2013, 2014), Eranne Daugharthy (2007), Alex Hupp (2006), Val Chapple (2005), and Tricia Tannahill (2001).


==== Track and Field ====
The Olathe East track and field team has won 10 state championships since 2007 and 11 overall, including five for boys in 1998, 2007, 2010, 2014, and 2015 and five consecutive state championships for girls from 2008 to 2012.


=== State championships ===


=== Theatre ===
Olathe East is home to International Thespian Society Troupe 5078. Every school year Olathe East stages two mainstage musicals, along side  many plays and improv shows. The department offers classes in acting, improv, and technical theatre. This program won the International Thespian Society's Outstanding School Award and has earned 109 nominations for the Starlight Blue Star Awards, a high school theatre awards program based in Kansas City and including six nominations for Outstanding Overall Production.
Some notable members of International Thespian Society Troupe 5078 include Broadway actor Justin Cooley (class of 2021). Justin Cooley performed in Olathe East productions like All Shook Up and Anastasia. Justin Cooley also won the 2021 Blue Star Award for Outstanding Actor in a Lead Role. After school Justin Cooley went on to play the role of Seth in the off-Broadway premiere of Kimberly Akimbo. He later played the role on Broadway, which earned Justin Cooley Tony and Drama Desk Award nominations for Best/Outstanding Featured Actor, in a Musical.


== Notable alumni ==
Stevie Case, professional video game player
Justin Cooley, Broadway Actor
Dawson Gurley, YouTube personality
Haley Hanson, NWSL player for the Orlando Pride
Tyler Kalinoski, professional basketball player
Danielle McCray, WNBA player for the Connecticut Sun, former player for the Kansas Jayhawks women's basketball team
Dan Ryckert, former video game journalist
Scott Vermillion, professional soccer player, 1994 Kansas High School Male Athlete of the Year


== See also ==
List of high schools in Kansas
List of unified school districts in Kansas
Other high schools in Olathe USD 233 school district
Olathe North High School in Olathe
Olathe Northwest High School in Olathe
Olathe South High School in Olathe
Olathe West High School in Olathe


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Olathe USD 233 School District

Leslie Gordon "Barney" Clark (30 December 1903 – 26 September 1974) was a New Zealand cricket umpire. He stood in two Test matches in 1956. He also played two first-class matches for Otago in the 1929–30 season. He was the father of cricketer Alan Clark who played for Otago and Auckland.
Clark was born at Christchurch in 1903 and educated at Lyttleton District High School. He played club cricket in Wellington for Midland Cricket Club before moving to Invercargill in 1929. He played as a wicket-keeper and was described as "one of ... the most outstanding cricketers" in the club side when he returned to Wellington in January 1930 where he captained Midland Cricket Club. he also played rugby union as a full-back. He had played both of his first-class matches for Otago during the 1929–30 season, making his debut against Auckland over the Christmas period before playing for the side against the touring England Test side over the New Year holiday. On both occasions he played as the side's wicket-keeper, scoring a total of five runs and taking two catches.
Beginning in the 1951–52 season, Clark stood as an umpire in matches in New Zealand. He stood in two Test matches during the 1955–56 tour by the West Indies and in 1956–57 in both of the first-class matches played by a touring Australian side against the New Zealand side. Overall he umpired nine first-class matches between 1953 and 1957. He continued umpiring at lower levels until 1970 and was the president of the Wellington Cricket Umpires' Association and, at the time of his death, president of the New Zealand Cricket Umpires' Association.
Clark died at Wellington in 1974, aged 70. An obituary was published in the New Zealand Cricket Almanack.


== See also ==
List of Test cricket umpires


== References ==

Arechis I (also Arigis, Aretchis, Italian: Arechi) was the second Duke of Benevento from 591 to his death in 641.
He was from the region of Friuli and was a relative of the dukes there. He was appointed by King Agilulf in the spring of 591, after Dukes Zotto's death; he was possibly Zotto's nephew. Arechis was practically independent because his duchy was separated from northern Italy by a stretch of Byzantine territory.
He conquered Capua and Venafro in the Campania and areas of the Basilicata and Calabria.  He failed to take Naples after a siege (Zotto had failed likewise), but he took Salerno by the late 620s. He spent the last years of his reign establishing good relations with the Roman Catholics of his duchy.   When he died his domain passed to his son Aiulf, despite his recommendation of his adopted sons Radoald and Grimoald.


== References ==

Mouret (French pronunciation: [muʁɛ]; Occitan: Moret) is a commune in the Aveyron department in southern France.


== Population ==


== See also ==
Communes of the Aveyron department


== References ==

William Brown Dickson (November 6, 1865 – January 28, 1942) was an American business executive in the steel industry. Starting his career as a common laborer in the Homestead Steel Works of Carnegie Steel at the age of 15, he rose to become vice president of Carnegie Steel, U.S. Steel, and Midvale Steel. He was an outspoken advocate for the end of the seven-day week and the twelve-hour day in the steel industry and became a proponent of "industrial democracy" based on stock ownership by employees.

Dickson was one of the last of Andrew Carnegie's "young geniuses" to rise through the ranks to become a junior partner in Carnegie Steel, where he designed America's first corporate safety department and pension plan. When J.P. Morgan founded U.S. Steel in 1901, Dickson became assistant to the president of the new corporation and later first vice president. 
In 1915, he became vice president, treasurer, and director of Midvale Steel and Ordnance Company, which during World War I was the third largest steel company in the United States (after U.S. Steel and Bethlehem Steel). Dickson envisioned an equal partnership between labor and capital. Midvale Steel and Ordnance Company pioneered employee ownership and management and became one of America's most progressive industrial companies. Dickson retired in 1923 at age 58.


== Early life ==
William Brown Dickson was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the ninth child of Mary Ann (née McConnell) and John Dickson (eventually there would be eleven). His mother was born in Lanarkshire, Scotland and had emigrated in 1850; his father was born in County Tyrone, Ireland and had emigrated in 1832.
When he was one, his family moved to Swissvale where his father was a partner in Dickson, Stewart and Company, a successful coal mine and lime kiln operator. The firm had invested heavily in a Pittsburgh bank which failed after the Panic of 1873. Because of the double liability of stockholders (up to twice the amount of the investment), the business was ruined and his father lost everything, including his house.
Dickson left school at age 11 and began working full time, first running errands for a lamp and glassware store in Pittsburgh for $3.00 per week. After several other jobs closer to home, he was attracted by the higher wages at Homestead and entered the steel mill on April 28, 1881 at 6pm for a 12-hour shift. His first job was in the blooming mill as a "spell hand" for the pulpit boys, who operated valves that controlled cranes. Later he worked in the converting and rail mills. In 1886, he was shifted to clerical work in the mills and, less exhausted at the end of the day, enrolled in Duff's Mercantile College in downtown Pittsburgh and studied bookkeeping and accounting. In August, 1889, he was called to the Pittsburgh office and his career took off.


== Private life ==
At Swissvale on February 22, 1888, Dickson married Mary Bruce Dickson (1865-1944), daughter of Thomas Bruce Dickson and Mary McCrory Dickson (same last name, no relation). Together they had six children.
On April 1, 1901 he resigned his position at Carnegie Steel Company and went to New York with Charles M. Schwab, president of United States Steel Corporation, which began business on that date. Dickson moved his family to Montclair, New Jersey, where he bought a home on Llewellyn Road to which he added wings designed by New York architect Frank E. Wallis.
Nurtured in the bosom of the Presbyterian Church, by mid-life Dickson had forsworn all "dogmatic religion" and described himself as an "Ethical Christian."
Dickson was a founding member of the Montclair Art Museum in 1913. His portrait was painted by renowned American Impressionist William Merritt Chase in 1905 and was donated to the museum in 1976 by Dickson's children. A lover of music and a self-taught pianist, he was a sponsor of the Llewellyn Ensemble, which met at his home in Montclair in 1916 and 1917 and evolved into the Montclair Orchestra. "They Shall Beat Their Swords into Plow-shares" is an anthem composed in 1934 by Mark Andrews and dedicated to Dickson, "a great lover of music and men." Dickson was the driving force behind the creation of Montclair's parks. In 1906, he spearheaded the referendum to create the network of city parks.
Dickson purchased a 150-acre farm with twin gambrel-roofed barns and a small farm house near Littleton in the North Country of New Hampshire at the western edge of the White Mountains. Between 1902 and 1909, on a hilltop above the farm with views of Mount Lafayette and the Kinsman Ridge, he built Highland Croft, a stone and wood lodge with nine inter-connecting bedrooms. He would bring more than two-dozen family members to Littleton each summer. He founded the Highland Chorus, which held practice afternoons at the farm. Sixty members strong, the Highland Chorus put on its first concert at the Littleton Opera House in 1923.


== Death ==
William B. Dickson died at Highland Croft in 1942 after a four-month illness. He is buried in Allegheny Cemetery in Pittsburgh.


== Writings ==
Article: "Can American Steel Plants Afford an Eight-Hour Turn." The Survey, January 3, 1914.
Article: "The Problem of Organized Labor and Organized Capital." The Montclair Times, March 20, 1915.
Article: "Eight-Hour Day and Six-Day Week in the Continuous Industries." The American Labor Legislation Review, Vol. VII, No. 1, March, 1917.
Article: "Some Twentieth Century Problems." Mechanical Engineering, The Journal of the American Society of Mechanical Engineering, May, 1919.
Article: "A Declaration of Inter-Dependence." Courier Mail Bag, Summer, 1932.
Article: "Democracy at the Crossroads." The World Wide Listener, October, 1939.
Article: "Equal Partners." Social Progress, September, 1939.
Article: "World Peace – Or Chaos?" The World Wide Listener, January, 1940.
Pamphlet: Is It True Think You, a collection of articles reprinted from The Littleton Courier, 1924.
Pamphlet: A Political Platform for 1936, 1936
Pamphlet: Democracy in Industry, 1931 (revised February, 1935)
Paper: Read to 28th Annual Reunion and Dinner of Carnegie Veterans Association, December 13, 1929
Poetry: A Collection of Poems by William B. Dickson, 1962, compiled and published by Emma Dickson Carswell


== References ==

W.B. Dickson, 1908. Genealogy of the Dickson Family and its immediate collateral branches : with notes on the Scottish emigration to north Ireland, Montclair, NJ.
W.B. Dickson, 1938. History of the Carnegie Veterans Association, Montclair, NJ.: Mountain Press
The New Jersey Historical Society: Manuscript Group 1046, William B. Dickson (1865-1942)
Pennsylvania State University Special Collections Library, William Brown Dickson Papers, 1880-1941
Senator John Heinz Pittsburgh Regional History Center, MFF# 126, Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania, Papers of the Dickson Family, 1836-1925
University of Minnesota, Elmer L. Andersen Library, Kautz Family YMCA Archives. Emma Young Dickson Papers
Montclair Public Library, Montclair, NJ, Local History Room, History of Montclair Parks (undated typescript), correspondence of William B. Dickson, 1904–06
Littleton Area Historical Society, Littleton, NH, Wm. B. Dickson Papers


== Further reading ==
James H. Bridge, 1903. The Inside History of the Carnegie Steel Company.
Arundel Cotter, 1921. United States Steel: A Corporation with a Soul.
Gerald G. Eggert, 1981. Steelmasters and labor reform, 1886-1923, Pittsburgh, Pa.: University of Pittsburgh Press.
Quentin R. Skrabec Jr., 2012. The Carnegie Boys: The Lieutenants of Andrew Carnegie That Changed America, Jefferson, NC: McFarland & Company, Inc.
Bryant F. Tolles Jr., 2000. Summer Cottages in the White Mountains: The Architecture of Leisure and Recreation, 1870 to 1930.
Philip Edward Jaeger, 1998. Montclair: A Postcard Guide to Its Past, Images of America, Postcard History Series, Arcadia Publishing

The Cibyrrhaeot Theme, more properly the Theme of the Cibyrrhaeots (Greek: θέμα Κιβυρραιωτῶν, romanized: thema Kibyrrhaiōtōn), was a Byzantine theme encompassing the southern coast of Asia Minor from the early 8th to the late 12th centuries. As the Byzantine Empire's first and most important naval theme (θέμα ναυτικόν, thema nautikon), it served chiefly to provide ships and troops for the Byzantine navy.


== History ==
The Cibyrrhaeots (Ancient Greek: Κιβυρραιῶται, romanized: Kibyrrhaiōtai, lit. 'men of Cibyrrha') derive their name from the city of Cibyrrha (it is unclear whether this is Cibyrrha the Great in Caria or Cibyrrha the Lesser in Pamphylia). The command first appears in the expedition against Carthage in 698, when a "droungarios of the Cibyrrhaeots" is attested as commanding the men from Korykos: Apsimar, who at the head of a fleet revolt became emperor as Tiberios III (r. 698–705). At the time, the Cibyrrhaeots were subordinate to the great naval corps of the Karabisianoi.
After the Karabisianoi were disbanded (the exact date is disputed between c. 719/720 and c. 727), the Cibyrrhaeots were constituted as a regular theme, with its governing strategos first attested in 731/732. Until the 9th century, when the themes of the Aegean Sea and Samos were elevated from droungarios-level commands, the Cibyrrhaeot Theme was the only dedicated naval theme of the Empire.
The theme encompassed the southern coast of Asia Minor (modern Turkey), from south of Miletus (which belonged to the Thracesian Theme) to the confines of the Arab borderlands in Cilicia, including the old Roman provinces of Caria, Lycia, Pamphylia and parts of Isauria, as well as the modern Dodecanese. Its geographical position made it the "front-line" theme facing the attacks of the Muslim fleets of the Levant and Egypt, and consequently the Cibyrrhaeots played a major role in the naval aspect of the Byzantine–Arab Wars. The land, which was known for its fertility, suffered from the frequent and devastating Arab raids, which largely depopulated the countryside except for the fortified cities and naval bases.

The seat of the strategos was most probably Attaleia. He drew an annual salary of 10 pounds of gold, and his overall rank in the imperial hierarchy was relatively low, but still senior to any other naval commander: twenty-fifth in the Taktikon Uspensky of 842/843, dropping to fifty-fifth in the Escorial Taktikon of 971–975. Like its other counterparts, the Cibyrrhaeot Theme was divided into droungoi and tourmai, and possessed the full array of typical thematic administrative positions. Among the most important subordinates of the strategos were the imperial ek prosopou  at Syllaion, the droungarioi of Attaleia and Kos and the katepano who commanded the theme's Mardaites. These were the descendants of several thousand people transplanted from the area of Lebanon and settled there by Emperor Justinian II (r. 685–695, 705–711) in the 680s to provide crews and marines for the fleet. In the early 9th century, the thematic fleet of the Cibyrrhaeots comprised 70 ships; and in the Cretan expedition of 911, the Cibyrrhaeot theme sent 31 warships – 15 large dromons and 16 middle-sized pamphyloi – with 6,000 oarsmen and 760 marines.
Around the mid-11th century, as the Muslim naval threat subsided, the Byzantine provincial fleets began a precipitate decline: the fleet of the Cibyrrhaeots is last mentioned in the repulsion of a Rus' raid in 1043, and the theme became a purely civil province, headed by a krites and later by a doux. Most of its territory was lost to the Seljuk Turks after the 1071 Battle of Manzikert, but recovered under Alexios I Komnenos (r. 1081–1118). The rump theme was finally abolished by Manuel I Komnenos (r. 1143–1180), and the territory in Caria subordinated to the theme Mylasa and Melanoudion.


== References ==


== Sources ==

DELO Industrie Klebstoffe GmbH & Co. KGaA (inherent spelling: DELO; international brand name: DELO Industrial Adhesives) is a manufacturer of industrial adhesives and equipment for dispensing as well as curing adhesives. The company has its headquarters in Windach, Germany.
Founded in 1961, Sabine and Wolf-Dietrich Herold took over DELO in the course of a management buy-out and converted it into an independent, owner-managed company.


== Products and technology ==
Adhesives, potting compounds and optical materials from DELO are mainly used for microelectronic and optical applications in the semicon and automotive industry as well as in consumer electronics. The company specializes in UV curing and dual-curing polymers for high-volume industrial production. These products obtain their complete or initial strength under UV light.


== World Record ==
Since 2019, the company has held the world record for the heaviest weight lifted with adhesive—3 grams of adhesive held a 17.5-ton truck.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Una Helga Moehrke (born July 7, 1953 in Hanover) is a German visual artist specializing in painting, drawing, performance art and experimental text. She was a Professor for Art and Art Mediation at Burg Giebichenstein University of Art and Design in Halle from 1994 to 2018.


== Life ==
Una H. Moehrke studied Painting at the Berlin University of the Arts (graduated in 1980 as a Master Student of Raimund Girke), along with Art History, Religious History, and Philosophy at the Free University of Berlin. She has received stipends from the Berlin Senate, the State of Lower Saxony, and the German Academic Exchange Service and prizes from the Ilse Augustin Foundation, Berlin, the Federal Garden Exhibition in Berlin, and the Baer Art Center, Iceland. After lectureships and guest professorships in Berlin, Lüneburg, Kiel, Braunschweig, and Dresden, she was appointed a Professor at the Burg Giebichenstein University of Art and Design in Halle in 1994. There she taught until 2018 in the Faculty of Art and was a Professor for Art and Art Mediation Art Education. Ulf Aminde, Irmela Gertsen, Georg Lisek, Julian Plodek, Luise von Rohden, Juliane Schickedanz, Jochen Schneider, Ella Ziegler and others were taught by Moehrke. Along with her teaching, Moehrke pursued her own painting and drawing. Moehrke is a member of the International Artists Bureau and an associate member of the German Artists Association. She lives in Berlin.


== Teaching ==
As an instructor, Moehrke combined in an experimental and multi-media manner societally related art mediation with artistic interventions in museums, galleries, theaters, and the world of work. Her teaching is based on the experience that artistic work is carried out in dialog with biographical and art-reflecting processes. In the framework of symposiums and catalog publications, she has realized research projects involving multiple steps.
In the 2008 project Geometry of Work, she presented artistic research and reflection processes on the heterogeneity of the current concept of work and its various manifestations, as well as documenting artistic transfer projects in concrete work milieus. A symposium in the Gallery for Contemporary Art (GfZK) in Leipzig discussed the geometry of work from its sociological, art-theoretical, and economic perspectives.
At the center of another art-theoretical research project, Im Modus der Gabe (In the Mode of the Gift), 2011, stand models from theater, visual art, and performance, in which processes of exchange, transfer, and reciprocity are effective. Considering the performative development of contemporary art, the contributions examine the degree to which concepts of the gift that develop from ethnological, philosophical, and sociological perspectives (Marcel Mauss, Maurice Godelier, Jacques Derrida, Bruno Latour, Paul Ricœur, etc.) prove viable for reflecting on the self-understanding of contemporary artistic practice in the field of tension between social effectiveness and the claim to autonomy.
The exhibition and event series erreger- | EIGEN frequenz (agent or pathogen – eigenfrequency), 2018, on the perception, mediation, and visibility of giving, taking, and passing on, is Moehrke's last presentation in the context of her teaching. In interplay with the works of the Professor, twenty-seven different positions on the phenomenon of giving and the principle of impulse and resonance were presented in the Burg Gallery Halle.


== Oeuvre ==
Starting with the photographic and performative Self-Portrait on the Surface of the Water (1980s), the Moehrke continued to develop self-portraits as abstract heads in oil painting (end of the 1990s). From the original head and mirror image Icon, she extrapolated abstract surfaces that present themselves as mostly monochromatic pictures. Moehrke works with the reduction of line and color fields. In painting, the dematerialization of color produces shifting color fields that offer reflection surfaces for light and shadow like a mirror and that change with the changing position of the viewer. These are pictures that oscillate between appearance and disappearance. The viewer perceives them as the trace of a motion. With extremely reduced coloration, they open up spaces whose atmosphere is reminiscent of phenomena of light. The viewer can associate motion within the picture with the physical motion outside of the picture (PictureSpaceMotion, 2010). Her pictures painted since 2012 with metal pigments that seem white are her primary works, a further extended reduction of monochromy.
Beginning with the performative water drawings of the 1990s, Moehrke designed a large-format, experimental form of drawing that can be categorized as site-specific art and that stands in dialog with nature and architectonic environments, for example industrial architecture, sacred buildings, or park facilities. Moehrke says drawings can grasp something ungraspable. In them, the lines condense to emblems and, in some work complexes, refer to examples from art history. Thus, in Venice in 2015, the drawings were fragmentarily transposed from historical paintings into a free and contemporary language of lines. With small, linear interventions, tradition is transferred to contemporaneity (Personal Structures. Crossing Borders: These lines are dedicated to... Palazzo Bembo, 56th International Art Exhibition, la Biennale di Venezia, Venice 2015). Moehrke's art develops dialogically in the media of performance, photography, painting, drawing, and text.
Many of Una H. Moehrke's works are publicly owned by Bear Art Center Island, the Berlinische Galerie, the Lüneburg District Government, the Franckesche Foundations Halle, Gruner + Jahr Berlin, the Wörnitz-Dessau Art Foundation, the Art Museum Moritzburg Halle (Saale), the State of Berlin, the Märkisches Museum (Berlin), the New Berlin Art Association, the Lower Saxony Artists Association, the Federal Republic of Germany Collection, the Halle Municipal Utilities, the Karlsruhe Municipal Gallery, the Wolfsburg Municipal Gallery, the Mannheim Savings Banks Insurances, and the Hanover Sprengel Museum.


== Exhibitions (selection) ==
2018 Erreger-I EIGENfrequenz, Exhibition and mediation project, Burg Galerie Halle, Halle/Saale, Germany
2017 Text statt Bild, Alvar Aalto Kulturhaus, Wolfsburg, Germany
2016 Images, Galerie Drei Ringe, Leipzig, Germany
2015 Personal Structures. Crossing Borders, Palazzo Bembo, Venice Biennale, Italy
2015 Die Geste der Zeichnung, Una H. Moehrke, City Gallery Lauenburg, Germany
2014 Line of Grace, Moritzburg Foundation, Saxony-Anhalt State Museum, Halle/Saale, Germany
2013 Whiteness, Gallery Inga Kondeyne, Berlin, Germany
2012 Una H. Moehrke, Lines & Beams, painting and drawing. Gallery enpassant, Berlin
2011 Una H. Moehrke, Gallery Inga Kondeyne, Berlin
2008 Bleistift, Buntstift & so weiter, drawings Una H. Moehrke (Touring exhibition and catalogue: Museum Abtei Liesborn of the District of Warendorf; Raum Hellrot; Städtische Galerie Wolfsburg).
2005 Una H. Moehrke, erscheinen und verschwinden, Painting 2001–2005, Stiftung Stadtmuseum, Berlin (Touring exhibition and catalogue: Märkisches Museum at Köllnischen Park Berlin; Kunstverein Leipzig, 2006)
2001 Una H. Moehrke, Flächenselbst, interfacial self, Oil paintings and drawings 1998–2001, Kunstverein Unna e.V., Unna, Germany (Touring exhibition and catalogue: Kunstverein Unna e.V.; Kunsthof e.V. Halberstadt; Fassbender Gallery, Chicago, Illinois)
2001 Una H. Moehrke, Präsenz - Repräsentanz, Photo installation, Kunstforum Halberstadt, Halberstadt 2001 (Exhibition catalogue: Das Gleimhaus, Halberstadt 2001)
1992 Una H. Moehrke. Bilder 1983–1992, Künstlerhaus Lauenburg (Touring exhibition and catalogue: Künstlerhaus Lauenburg; Stadtgalerie im Sophienhof Kiel; Galerie am Friedrichsplatz Mannheim)
1991 Herzsprung, Circulo de Bellas Artes, Madrid, Spain; Standortverwaltung, Lüneburg, Germany (Catalog: Exhibition on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the Künstlerstätte Schloss Bleckede, Germany)
1987 Narziss oder die Kunst-Liebe – Helga Moehrke, Photo works 1980–1987, Neuer Berliner Kunstverein Berlin (Touring exhibition and catalogue: Neuer Berliner Kunstverein; Kunsthalle Recklinghausen; Mannheimer Kunstverein, Germany)
1987 Totentanz, Performance on 22 November 1987 in St. Petri zu Lübeck, Overbeck Society, Lübeck, Germany
1986 Love is everey thing that answers a question, Art Gallery at Harbourfront, Toronto, Canada
1986 Crier le hasard, Parc des Buttes-Chaumont, Goethe-Institut Paris and Mercedes-Benz, Paris, France
1984 Kein Blatt wie das andere, Performance, Herrenhäuser Gärten, Hannover. Exhibition Sprengel Museum, Hanover, Germany


== Bibliography (selection) ==


=== Publications on teaching ===
erreger-| EIGEN frequenz, Catalogue of the exhibition and mediation project, Burg Galerie Halle, ed. by  Burg Giebichenstein University of Art and Design Halle, Halle/Saale 2018.
Burg Giebichenstein Kunsthochschule Halle; Reuter, Jule (eds.): Burg 100 – Professoren und Professorinnen der Burg aus Kunst und Design. Burg Giebichenstein: Halle 2015, ISBN 978-3-86019-100-2.
Hentschel, Ingrid; Moehrke, Una H.; Hoffmann, Klaus (eds.): Im Modus der Gabe. Theater, Kunst, Performance in der Gegenwart. Bielefeld: Kerber Verlag 2011, ISBN 978-3-86678-494-9.
Drebber, Madalena; Moehrke, Una H.; Penzel, Joachim (eds): Geometrie der Arbeit. Transfer von Kunst in gesellschaftliche Funktionsbereiche. Bielefeld: Kerber Verlag 2008, ISBN 978-3-86678-182-5.


=== Monographs ===
Una H. Moehrke, Bild_Text R A U M. Malerei-Zeichnung, Performance-Text, 1984–2018, ed. by Burg Giebichenstein University of Art and Design Halle, Halle/Saale 2018, ISBN 9783860191439.
Personal Structures. Crossing Borders. Cat. ed. by Global Art Affairs Foundation, Venice 2015, ISBN 9789490784188.
Camelia Flowers (Cat.), Camelia Hills Jeju, Korea 2012
PANTA RHEI. Der Fluß und seine Bilder. Ed. by Ute Seiderer, Leipzig: Reclam-Verlag,  2009.
Weiß sehen. Bleistift, Buntstift & so weiter. Painting, drawing, ed. by Museum Abtei Liesborn and Raum Hellrot, Halle 2008, ISBN 9783941100367.
Es ist das Andere. Una H. Moehrke, Malerei 2007, ed. by Anhaltischer Kunstverein Dessau e.V. and BIK Gallery 149, Bremerhaven 2007, ISBN 9783000237959.
Positions-Directions. (Cat.), Stadtgalerie im Elbeforum, Brunsbüttel 2005
Erscheinen und Verschwinden. Una H. Moehrke Malerei 2001–2005,  ed. by Stiftung Stadtmuseum, Berlin 2005, ISBN 9783000169373.
Larass, Petra; Drück, Patricia: Die Quelle als Inspiration. Historisches Wissen in der zeitgenössischen Kunst, ed. by Franckesche Stiftungen, Halle/Saale 2002, ISBN 978-3931479305.
Flächenselbst, Ölbilder und Zeichnungen. Interfacial Self, Oil paintings and drawings (Cat.), Kunstverein Unna & Kunsthof e. V., Halberstadt, and Fassbender Gallery, Chicago, 2001, ISBN 9783000074547.
Mehrmirmär, Zeichnungen und Bilder, Gallery Kasten, Mannheim, and Galerie von Tempelhoff, Karlsruhe 1999.
Una, Bilder 1992–1994, Künstlerhaus Göttingen, 1994.
Oberflächenferne, Museum für Photographie, Braunschweig 1988.
Oberwasser, Unterwasser oder das Aufgehobensein im Wasser, Kunstverein Lüneburg, Schiffshebewerk, Scharnebeck 1987.
Narziß oder die Kunstliebe, Neue Berliner Kunstverein (NBK), Berlin 1986.
Kein Blatt wie das andere, Sprengel Museum, Hannover 1984.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website (in German)
Website "Gabe Forschung"(in German). Gift Research links activities on gift-giving, publishes texts and projects, and addresses artists.

Clockers is a 1995 American crime drama film directed by Spike Lee. It is an adaptation of the 1992 novel of the same name by Richard Price, who also co-wrote the screenplay with Lee. The film stars Harvey Keitel, John Turturro, Delroy Lindo, and Mekhi Phifer in his debut film role. Set in New York City, Clockers tells the story of Strike (Phifer), a street-level drug dealer who becomes entangled in a murder investigation.
The film originally entered production with Martin Scorsese attached to direct; he had previously collaborated with Price on his 1986 film The Color of Money. Scorsese eventually dropped out of production to focus on his passion project Casino, at which point Lee stepped in to direct and rewrite the script, Scorsese remained a co-producer alongside Lee. Clockers was released by Universal Pictures on September 15, 1995 and received generally positive reviews from film critics, but was a box office failure, grossing only around $13,071,518 on a $25 million budget.


== Plot ==
In a Brooklyn housing project, a group of clockers — street-level drug dealers — work for Rodney Little, a local drug lord. Rodney orders Ronald "Strike" Dunham, one of his lead clockers, to kill Darryl Adams, another dealer who has been stealing from him. Strike is reluctant to carry out the killing and asks his brother Victor if he knows someone who could kill Adams.
Later, Homicide detectives Rocco Klein and Larry Mazilli are called to the scene of Adams' murder and learn that Victor has confessed to killing him. Upon interrogation, Victor tells Rocco that he shot Adams in self-defense. Rocco finds holes in this story and examines Victor's background, where he finds that Victor cares for his family, is a responsible employee and has no criminal record, leading Rocco to believe that Victor is covering for his younger brother.
Rodney discusses Darryl's death with Strike. Later, Rodney tells Strike a story of a younger Rodney and Errol, where Errol threatened Rodney at gunpoint to kill a dealer, which he did. Back in the present, he tells Strike the reason Errol forced him at gunpoint to do so was so that Errol could hold something over him if he ever decided to tell on Errol, which was why he told Strike to kill Darryl Adams. Strike and Rodney have a falling-out after Rodney denies telling Strike to kill Darryl.
Rocco pressures Strike, but Victor sticks to his story, so Rocco convinces Rodney that Strike has confessed and informed on Rodney's drug ring. Rocco arrests Rodney and then implicates Strike in front of his crew. Strike tries to play it off and deny that he was involved in Rodney's arrest, but his crew begins to turn on Strike, leading to them labeling him a snitch. Rodney, calling Errol to notify him that he is in jail, puts a hit out on Strike. Strike then gets together some money and decides to leave town.
As Strike leaves his apartment, he sees Errol camped outside of his car with a gun. Strike deduces that Errol is there to kill him and hides. A younger boy who admires Strike, Tyrone, rides up to Errol on a bike and shoots him dead with Strike's gun. Later, Tyrone is taken into custody. With Rocco, Tyrone's mother and Andre listening, Tyrone confesses that he got the gun from Strike. Andre storms out of the interrogation room and proceeds to look for Strike.
Andre angrily beats Strike in front of the whole project, and with a gun threatens the onlooking bystanders to stay back. As Andre threatens to kill Strike if he ever talks to or even looks at the young boy again, Rodney pulls up, which leads to Strike jumping in his own car and driving to the precinct, with Rodney following. Strike runs into Rocco, who now has an arrest warrant for Strike, and runs into the precinct just as Rodney arrives.
Rocco tries to intimidate Strike into confessing to the murder, but he loses his composure when Strike continues to change his story. When Rocco grabs Strike and throws him against the wall, Strike's mother walks in with Mazilli and Victor's wife. She advises Rocco that Victor confessed to the murder immediately when he got home, and how Victor was physically unable to leave his bed. Strike asks his mom what happened to the bail money he gave Victor's wife, which leads to Strike's mother angrily throwing the money in Strike's face.
Meanwhile, Rodney proceeds to damage Strike's car, going as far as breaking the windows, damaging the doors and urinating in the car. Left with no other options and unable to go home, Strike asks Rocco to drive him to Penn Station.
In a car, Rocco threatens to arrest Strike, then arrest Rodney on the same charges and ensure that Rodney and Strike share a cell and a bed in prison. Strike leaves town by train. While Tyrone is playing inside his apartment with the train set that Strike gave him, Rocco and Mazilli respond to the homicide of clocker Scientific. Victor is released from custody.


== Cast ==


== Film poster ==
Critics and film buffs were quick to notice that the poster, designed by Art Sims, was similar to the artwork of Saul Bass for Otto Preminger's 1959 film Anatomy of a Murder. Sims claimed that it was a homage, but Bass regarded it as a rip-off.


== Release ==


=== Critical reception ===
The film received generally positive reviews. On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 75% of 65 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 6.90/10. The site's consensus reads, "A work of mournful maturity that sacrifices little of its director's signature energy, Clockers is an admittedly flawed drama with a powerfully urgent message". On Metacritic, the film has a score of 71 out of 100 based on reviews from 20 critics, indicating "generally favorable" reviews. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "B" on an A+ to F scale.
Roger Ebert gave the movie three-and-a-half stars, praising the stark depiction of violence and the drug trade while also praising Lee for finding "poetry and humor in all of his stories." He concluded the review by writing: "Although “Clockers” is, as I suggested, a murder mystery, in solving its murder, it doesn’t even begin to find a solution to the system that led to the murder. That is the point. In a closing scene, Strike asks Rocco, the white cop, what made him care. Rocco does not answer. Instead, he tells Strike, “Don’t ever let me see you in this town again.” Is that the answer? That the infection of drugs and guns is so deep that the only sane action is to get out of town? Maybe, in a symbolic way, it is." 
David Denby of New York said that while the original novel was "filled with operational detail" the film adaptation was "more emotional" and "less factual". Denby further explained that Spike Lee was "concerned less with Strike's spiritual condition than with the survival of the entire community." Denby said that Lee, in the work, "jumps around a lot, telling his story in hot flashes" as typical in Spike Lee films, arguing that the technique makes the film "difficult to follow". In regard to the cinematography of Malik Sayeed, Denby said that it was "rough and dark-hued, with an almost tabloid angriness in the scenes of violence."


=== Box office ===
Clockers grossed over $4 million its first weekend and ended its run with over $13 million domestically.


== Soundtrack ==

Clockers (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) was released on August 25, 1995, through MCA Soundtracks. Composed of twelve songs, it features performances from Marc Dorsey, Rebelz of Authority, BrooklyNytes, Buckshot LeFonque, Chaka Khan, Crooklyn Dodgers '95, Des'ree, Mega Banton, Seal and Strictly Difficult. The album made it to #54 on the Billboard Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart in the United States, spawning two singles: "Return of the Crooklyn Dodgers" by Jeru the Damaja, O.C. and Chubb Rock, which peaked at #96 on the Billboard Hot 100, and "Love Me Still" by Chaka Khan.
One song featured in the film but not included in the original motion picture soundtrack is R&B artist Philip Bailey's "Children of the Ghetto," from Bailey's 1984 album Chinese Wall.


=== Track listing ===


=== Charts ===

 Clockers(Original Orchestra Score)was composed for the movie by Terence Blanchard, and released on Columbia in 1995


== See also ==

List of hood films


== References ==


== External links ==
Clockers at IMDb

Lewisia kelloggii is a species of flowering plant in the family Montiaceae known by the common name Kellogg's lewisia. It is endemic to the Sierra Nevada of California, where it is known from several sites high in the mountains. It grows in rocky mountain habitat in granite and slate substrates. This is a perennial herb growing from a thick, short taproot and caudex unit. It produces a basal rosette of many thick, leathery, spoon-shaped leaves up to 9 centimeters (3.5 in) long. The inflorescence bears several flowers, each on a very short stalk. The flower has 5 to 13 shiny white or pinkish petals just over a centimeter long. Under the petals are two sepals and two similar bracts lined with spherical resin glands.
A population of Lewisia plants in the Sawtooth Range in Idaho were previously included in this species. Genetic analysis has shown that it is different enough to be considered a species of its own and has been named Lewisia sacajaweana, Sacajawea's bitterroot.


== References ==


== External links ==

Jepson Manual Treatment
Photo gallery

Catalan Regional Action (Catalan: Acció Regional Catalana, Spanish: Acción Regional Catalana, ARC) was a small centre-right political party in Catalonia, Spain. It was the Catalan affiliate of the Spanish Regional Action party.


== See also ==
Regional Action
People's Alliance


== References ==

Ashish Arora is an Indian structural biologist and a senior scientist at Central Drug Research Institute. He did his postgraduate studies at Rajasthan University and post-doctoral work at the Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry, Goettingen, and University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, before joining the Central Drug Research Institute in 2002. He is known for his studies on Protein NMR Spectroscopy and the pathogenesis of diseases such as tuberculosis and visceral leishmaniasis, commonly known as Kala Azar and has delivered invited speeches at various seminars. The Department of Biotechnology of the Government of India awarded him the National Bioscience Award for Career Development, one of the highest Indian science awards, for his contributions to biosciences, in 2011. He is also a recipient of the 2010 Prof. B. K. Bachhawat Memorial Young Scientist Award of the National Academy of Sciences, India.


== Selected bibliography ==
Kabra, Ashish; Shahid, Salman; Pal, Ravi Kant; Yadav, Rahul; Pulavarti, S. V. S. Rama Krishna; Jain, Anupam; Tripathi, Sarita; Arora, Ashish (1 February 2017). "Unraveling the stereochemical and dynamic aspects of the catalytic site of bacterial peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase". RNA. 23 (2): 202–216. doi:10.1261/rna.057620.116. ISSN 1355-8382. PMC 5238795. PMID 28096445.
Kabra, Ashish; Fatma, Farheen; Shahid, Salman; Pathak, Prem Prakash; Yadav, Rahul; Pulavarti, S.V.S.R. Krishna; Tripathi, Sarita; Jain, Anupam; Arora, Ashish (2016). "Structural characterization of peptidyl-tRNA hydrolase from Mycobacterium smegmatis by NMR spectroscopy". Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - Proteins and Proteomics. 1864 (10): 1304–1314. doi:10.1016/j.bbapap.2016.06.013. PMID 27378575.
Shukla, Vaibhav Kumar; Kabra, Ashish; Yadav, Rahul; Ono, Shoichiro; Kumar, Dinesh; Arora, Ashish (1 October 2015). "NMR assignments of actin depolymerizing factor (ADF) like UNC-60A and cofilin like UNC-60B proteins of Caenorhabditis elegans". Biomolecular NMR Assignments. 9 (2): 261–265. doi:10.1007/s12104-014-9588-5. ISSN 1874-2718. PMC 4465417. PMID 25503290.


== References ==

The Male Animal is a 1942 American comedy-drama film produced by Warner Bros. Pictures, starring Henry Fonda, Olivia de Havilland and Joan Leslie.
The film was based on a hit 1940 Broadway play of the same name written by James Thurber and Elliott Nugent. The screenplay was written by Stephen Morehouse Avery, Julius J. Epstein, and Philip G. Epstein, based on Nugent and Thurber's play. The film was also directed by Elliott Nugent.


== Plot ==
Tommy Turner is an English teacher at football-crazed Midwestern University. Although he is uninvolved with the politics of the day, Tommy suddenly finds himself the center of a free-speech debate on campus. An editorial in a student magazine praises him for planning to read Bartolomeo Vanzetti's sentencing statement to his class as an example of eloquent composition, even in broken English composed by a non-professional.
The school's conservative trustees, led by Ed Keller, threaten to fire Tommy if he doesn't withdraw the reading from his lecture. The subject of free speech and Tommy's dilemma of conscience anchor the dramatic subplot's social significance. The lighter comic triangle plot concerns a return visit to attend the big football game by Joe Ferguson, a former football hero and one-time love interest of Turner's wife Ellen. Joe is recently divorced and he rekindles Ellen's romantic notions at the very moment when her marriage to Tommy is being tested by the events on campus.


== Cast ==
Henry Fonda as Tommy Turner
Olivia de Havilland as Ellen Turner
Joan Leslie as Patricia Stanley
Jack Carson as Joe Ferguson
Eugene Pallette as Ed Keller
Herbert Anderson as Michael Barnes
Hattie McDaniel as Cleota
Ivan Simpson as Dean Frederick Damon
Don DeFore as Wally Myers
Jean Ames as "Hot Garters" Gardner
Minna Phillips as Mrs. Blanche Damon
Regina Wallace as Mrs. Myrtle Keller
Frank Mayo as Coach Sprague
William B. Davidson as Alumnus
Bobby Barnes as Nutsy Miller


== Production ==
Gene Tierney, who had starred as Patricia Stanley in the original Broadway production, was unable to appear in the film because she was contracted to star in John Ford's movie version of Tobacco Road. Don DeFore, another member of the Broadway cast, repeated his role in the film. Co-writer Elliott Nugent played the lead role on the stage before coming to Hollywood to direct Henry Fonda in the film version. Gig Young, who changed his birth name / stage name, Byron Barr, that year, appears unbilled as a student.
Elliott Nugent said the Jack Benny was suggested for the lead. Nugent wrote in his memoirs, "No one admires Jack Benny more than I do, but I felt that any picture treatment for him would necessarily emphasize the lighter side of the play to the detriment of the serious theme about academic freedom. I told Hal Wallis that, under the contract of sale, Thurber and I had no supervision of casting, but that I personally would not have the feel for slanting the story for my friend Benny." He suggested Henry Fonda and Olivia de Havilland instead.
Olivia de Havilland appeared in this film while simultaneously making They Died with Their Boots On (1941) starring Errol Flynn, putting the actress under enormous pressure from overwork.


== Remake ==
The Male Animal was loosely reworked by Warner Bros. as a musical called She's Working Her Way Through College (1952), starring Virginia Mayo and Ronald Reagan. In this adaptation, the characters' names are changed. Also, the political theme is discarded in favor of a conflict surrounding the professor's attempt to mount a musical play featuring a student who is discovered to be a former burlesque dancer.
The remake earned an estimated $2.4 million at the North American box office in 1952.
The remake features Gene Nelson and Phyllis Thaxter in the cast, as well as Don DeFore who had also been in The Male Animal.


== References ==


== External links ==
The Male Animal at IMDb
The Male Animal at the TCM Movie Database (archived)
The Male Animal at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films
​The Male Animal​ at the Internet Broadway Database
Song, "We Don't Give a Damn for the Whole State of Michigan"
1953 Best Plays radio adaptation of original play at Internet Archive

Charles Caryl Coleman (April 25, 1840, in Buffalo, New York – December 3, 1928, in Capri, Italy) was an American artist.


== Early life ==
Coleman was born in Buffalo, New York to John Hull Coleman (1813) and Charlotte Augusta (née Caryl) Coleman.  His younger brother was Caryl Coleman (1847–1930), an ecclesiologist, church glass manufacturer and decorator who was educated at Bellevue Medical College and Canisius College, and who married Nonna Agnes Black. Caryl opened the church department of the Tiffany Company in New York in 1889 and operated it for 10 years. In 1899 he founded the Church Glass and Decorating Company of New York which manufactured a variety of decorative and stained-glass windows for various churches, academic institutions, and other private and public buildings.
His maternal grandparents were Capt. Benjamin Caryl and Susan Young. His paternal grandparents were Charles H. Coleman (1787–1880) and Doreas (née Hull) Coleman (1791–1822).  Charles was a descendant of Thomas Coleman of Marlborough, Wiltshire, England, who came to Boston in 1635 and moved to Nantucket in 1663 after living in Newbury, Massachusetts.
He was raised in Buffalo and studied art under William Holbrook Beard "and an itinerant painter, Andrew Andrews whose real name was Isaacs."


== Career ==
Between 1859 and 1862, Coleman studied in Paris under Thomas Couture, returning during the American Civil War to serve with the Union Army during which he was seriously wounded in South Carolina and recovered in Sharon Springs, New York. He returned to Europe in 1866 with fellow painters William Morris Hunt and Elihu Vedder. In 1865, he was elected into the National Academy of Design as an Associate Academician.
From 1863 to 1866, Coleman maintained a studio in New York. It was first at 840 and later at 896 Broadway. He regularly showed his work in the exhibitions of the Brooklyn Art Academy and the National Academy of Design in New York.
In 1866, he left America again and spent time painting in London, Paris, and Brittany. He then moved to a Roman apartment previously occupied by poet John Keats, living there from the late 1860s to the mid-1880s, before finally settling in Capri.
Coleman's decorative panels constitute his greatest contributions to nineteenth-century art. These paintings, which represent attenuated branches of flowering fruit trees or azaleas, can be compared only to the oversized stained glass panels of John La Farge and Louis Comfort Tiffany. Embodying all of the characteristics of the international aesthetic movement, they also depict Japanese fans, Chinese pots, maiolica vases, Venetian vases, Islamic tapestries, and Indian textiles.
In 1893, Coleman returned to the United States briefly.  While there, he was commissioned to paint and decorate the interiors of the New-York State Building at the Chicago World's Fair, along with fellow artists Frank D. Millet and Elmer E. Garnsey.
In 1899, Avery Galleries at 368 Fifth Avenue in New York held an exhibition with forty of his pictures and drawings.  Another was held there in 1902, featuring over fifty paintings and pastels made by Coleman.  The place of honor was given to his contribution to the 1901 Pan-American Exposition, held in his hometown of Buffalo, titled Saintly Dreams by Early Moonlight.  It was a saint with a solid golden halo, flowing black hair, a red gown, and a branch of red roses on her lap.  The New York Times stated that she "seems to have felt the languor and bewitchment of a Capri moonlight. She lounges on a white-tiled bench between round stucco columns, flowering shrubs in pots before her, and above her head a lattice running from pillar to pillar. Strong shadows fall about her from the moonlight, leaving her head in the shade."


=== Capri ===
In 1870, he converted the guesthouse of the former convent of Santa Teresa into Villa Narcissus.  A part of the villa was dedicated to a "palace of art" with antiquities and his own paintings.  One of Coleman's friends, Dr. Allan McLane Hamilton, a grandson of Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton, lived for a short time in Villa Castello, a villa near Villa Narcissus.
Villa Narcissus was later partly purchased from him by Rose O'Neill, his friend and also an American artist; he gave her the other half.  O'Neill, who is famous for having invented the Kewpie Doll, permitted Coleman to live out the remainder of his days there, and he remained at the Villa until his death in 1928.


== Personal life ==
In 1875, Coleman married Mary Edith Grey Alsager (d. 1906), who worked with the Red Cross during the Franco-Prussian War of 1870, treating both French and German soldiers.  They did not have any children and Mary predeceased him.
In his June 1916 will, he bequeathed all of his estate in a life trust fund for the benefit of his brother, Caryl Coleman (d. 1930).  The will further dictates that after his brother's death, the estate shall go to his friend, Mrs. Rose O'Neill Wilson, of Saugatuck, Connecticut.  In the event that Mrs. Wilson died before his brother, the property goes to Anita Vedder (1873–1954), the daughter of his friend Elihu Vedder of Capri. In the event all predeceased him, the estate would go to the American Academy in Rome.


== Exhibitions ==
One-man exhibitions of his work were exhibited at:

1899 – Avery Galleries, New York, New York
1902 – Avery Galleries, New York, New York
1906 – Thomas C. Hoe Gallery, New York, New York
1907 – St. Botolph Club, Boston, Massachusetts
1907 – John Herron Art Institute, Indianapolis, Indiana
1907 – Detroit Institute of Arts, Detroit, Michigan
1907 – Saint Louis City Art Museum, St. Louis, Missouri
1907 – Buffalo Fine Arts Academy, Buffalo, New York
1912 – Buffalo Fine Arts Academy, Buffalo, New York


== Works ==
His work was exhibited in the United States and England, including:

Early Morning-Capri, Albright-Knox Art Gallery
The Antiquary, Albright-Knox Art Gallery
The Capri Girl, Albright-Knox Art Gallery
Oil Press, Anacapri-Capri, Albright-Knox Art Gallery
In the Garden of Villa Castello, Albright-Knox Art Gallery
Music in the Moonlight, Detroit Institute of Arts
The Return from the Crucifixion, Brooklyn Museum
Study of Elihu Vedder, Coleman's friend
Portrait of Walter Savage Landor, a commission of the poet and essayist
The Bronze Horses of San Marco, Venice, 1876, Whitney Museum of American Art
View of Vesuvius from Capri, 1896, Yale University Art Gallery
Vesuvius from Pompeii, Detroit Institute of Arts
The Vesuvius Eruption of 1906, date unknown, Brooklyn Museum
Christ Walking on the Sea, Seaman's Institute
Mural designs for the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, New York City for the Ecclesiastical Department of the Tiffany Glass and Decorating Company.
Quince Blossoms, 1878, Virginia Museum of Fine Arts


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Charles Caryl Coleman at Wikimedia Commons
Works by or about Charles Caryl Coleman at the Internet Archive

The seventh edition of the Copa América de Ciclismo was held on 7 January 2007 in São Paulo, Brazil. The Copa América opened the Brazilian season and took place at the Formula One-track, a circuit of 4.3 km (2.7 mi), in the city of São Paulo-Interlagos.


== Results ==


== References ==
"7th Copa America de Ciclismo - 1.2", Cycling News

The future of space exploration involves both telescopic and physical explorations of space by robotic spacecraft and human spaceflight. Near-term physical exploration missions, focused on obtaining new information about the Solar System, are planned and announced by both national and private organisations.
Tentative plans for crewed orbital and landing missions to the Moon and Mars to establish scientific outposts will later enable permanent and self-sufficient settlements. Further exploration will potentially involve expedition and the other planets and settlements on the Moon, as well as establishing mining and fueling outposts, particularly in the asteroid belt. Physical exploration outside the Solar System will be robotic for the foreseeable future.


== Benefits of space exploration ==

Investment in space exploration has dramatically shifted since the 20th century Space race. Space exploration of the late 20th century was driven by competition between the Soviet Union and the United States to achieve the first spaceflight. Now, the private sector and national governments are again investing in space exploration. However, this time they are motivated by protecting human life from catastrophic events and leveraging the resources of space.


=== Colonize outer space ===

It has been argued that space colonization is a means of ensuring the survival of human civilization given a planetary disaster. Colonizing other planets allows for the dispersal of humans and thus increases the likelihood of survival given a planetary disaster. The availability of additional resources that can be mined from space could potentially expand the capabilities of humans and largely benefit society. Leveraging these resources and moving high polluting industries to space could reduce the emissions on Earth and ultimately lead to finding cleaner energy sources. The primary blockers to colonizing space include technological and economic challenges.
Many private companies are working to make space travel more efficient in hopes to reduce the overall cost of space travel, and thus space colonization. SpaceX has been a dominant leader in this push for efficient exploration with the release of the Falcon 9, a reusable rocket.


=== Space research ===

The unique attributes of space enable astronauts to conduct research that could not otherwise be done on Earth, and the perspective from space looking at Earth enables scientists to gain more insight on the Earth's natural environment. Research conducted at the International Space Station aims to benefit human civilizations on Earth and extend human knowledge of space and space exploration. Currently, NASA's research at the ISS includes biomedical research, material science, technology advancement, and methods to enable further space exploration.
Anti and microgravity enable astronauts to execute medical research that is impossible to perform on Earth. For example, NASA's research on new treatment options for complex diseases, such as Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy, require the use of a microgravity environment to allow the microparticles in the treatment solution to stay robust. NASA has also reported research investment in microbial vaccine development and microencapsulation of drugs for targeted and more efficient treatment delivery.


== Uncrewed missions ==


=== Breakthrough Starshot ===

Breakthrough Starshot is a research and engineering project by the Breakthrough Initiatives to develop a proof-of-concept fleet of light sail spacecraft named StarChip, to be capable of making the journey to the Alpha Centauri star system 4.37 light-years away. It was founded in 2016 by Yuri Milner, Stephen Hawking, and Mark Zuckerberg.


=== Mars ===


==== Rosalind Franklin ====

Rosalind Franklin, previously known as the ExoMars rover, is a planned robotic Mars rover, part of the international ExoMars programme led by the European Space Agency and the Russian Roscosmos State Corporation.
Initially scheduled to launch in July 2020, but has since been delayed due to testing issues with the rover's landing mechanism. As of May 2022, the launch of the rover is not expected to occur before 2028 due to the need for a new non-Russian landing platform. Once safely landed, the solar powered rover will begin a seven-month (218-sol) mission to search for the existence of past life on Mars. The Trace Gas Orbiter (TGO), launched in 2016, will operate as Rosalind Franklin's and lander's data-relay satellite.


==== Mars Lander Mission ====

Mars Lander Mission, also called Mangalyaan-2. Mars Orbiter Mission 2 (MOM 2), is India's second interplanetary mission planned for launch to Mars by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). As per some reports emerged, the mission was to be an orbiter to Mars proposed for 2024. However, in a recorded interview in October 2019, VSSC director has indicated the inclusion of a lander and rover. The orbiter will use aerobraking to lower its initial apoapsis and enter into an orbit more suitable for observations.


=== Asteroids ===

An article in science magazine Nature suggested the use of asteroids as a gateway for space exploration, with the ultimate destination being Mars. In order to make such an approach viable, three requirements need to be fulfilled: first, "a thorough asteroid survey to find thousands of nearby bodies suitable for astronauts to visit"; second, "extending flight duration and distance capability to ever-increasing ranges out to Mars"; and finally, "developing better robotic vehicles and tools to enable astronauts to explore an asteroid regardless of its size, shape or spin." Furthermore, using asteroids would provide astronauts with protection from galactic cosmic rays, with mission crews being able to land on them without great risk to radiation exposure


=== Gas giants ===


==== Breakthrough Enceladus ====

Breakthrough Enceladus is an astrobiology space probe mission concept to explore the possibility of life on Saturn's moon, Enceladus. In September 2018, NASA signed a collaboration agreement with Breakthrough to jointly create the mission concept. This mission would be the first privately funded deep space mission. It would study the content of the plumes ejecting from Enceladus's warm ocean through its southern ice crust. Enceladus's ice crust is thought to be around two to five kilometers thick, and a probe could use an ice-penetrating radar to constrain its structure.


=== Space telescopes ===


==== PLATO ====

Planetary Transits and Oscillations of Stars (PLATO) is a space telescope under development by the European Space Agency for launch in 2026. The mission goals are to search for planetary transits across up to one million stars, and to discover and characterize rocky extrasolar planets around yellow dwarf stars (like the Sun), subgiant stars, and red dwarf stars. The emphasis of the mission is on Earth-like planets in the habitable zone around Sun-like stars where water can exist in liquid state. 
It is the third medium-class mission in ESA's Cosmic Vision programme and named after the influential Greek philosopher Plato, the founding figure of Western philosophy, science and mathematics. A secondary objective of the mission is to study stellar oscillations or seismic activity in stars to measure stellar masses and evolution and enabling the precise characterization of the planet host star, including its age.


== Crewed missions ==


=== SpaceX Starship ===

The SpaceX Starship is planned to be a spacecraft launched as the second stage of a reusable launch vehicle. The concept is under development by SpaceX, as a private spaceflight project. It is being designed to be a long-duration cargo- and passenger-carrying spacecraft. While it will be tested on its own initially, it will be used on orbital launches with an additional booster stage, the Super Heavy, where Starship would serve as the second stage on a two-stage-to-orbit launch vehicle. The combination of spacecraft and booster is called Starship as well.


==== Boeing Starliner ====


=== Boeing Starliner ===

The Boeing CST-100 Starliner is a reusable crew spacecraft developed by Boeing for NASA's Commercial Crew Program to transport astronauts to and from the International Space Station. Starliner first flew with crew on the Boeing Crew Flight Test, launched on 5 June 2024, carrying NASA astronauts Barry "Butch" Wilmore and Sunita Williams to the ISS. The spacecraft returned to Earth uncrewed in September 2024 after propulsion system anomalies were identified during the mission. Wilmore and Williams later returned aboard SpaceX Crew-9 in March 2025. Starliner-1, previously planned as the first operational crewed flight of Starliner, was later changed to an uncrewed cargo mission intended to deliver supplies to the ISS and validate spacecraft upgrades before future crew rotation flights. As of May 2026, NASA listed the launch timing for Starliner-1 as under review.


=== Gaganyaan ===

ISRO's future Gaganyaan mission, which is the first Indian Human Spaceflight Programme, comprises a crew module which is a fully autonomous 5.3-tonne (12,000 lb) spacecraft designed to carry a 3-member crew to orbit and safely return to the Earth after a mission duration of up to seven days. Its 2.9-tonne (6,400 lb) service module is powered by liquid propellant engines. It is to be launched on the GSLV Mk III launcher no earlier than 2022. About 16 minutes after liftoff from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC), Sriharikota, the rocket will inject the spacecraft into an orbit 300–400 km (190–250 mi) above Earth. When ready to land, its service module and solar panels will be disposed off before reentry. The capsule would return for a parachute splashdown in the Bay of Bengal.


== Limitations with deep space exploration ==
The future possibilities for deep space exploration are limited by a set of technical, practical, astronomical, and human limitations, which define the future of crewed and uncrewed space exploration. As of 2022, the farthest any human-made probe has traveled is the current NASA mission Voyager 1, 23.61 billion km (14.67 billion mi), around 157.8 AU, from Earth, while the nearest star is around 4.24 light years away, that is the equivalent of 268142.2 AU.


=== Technical limitations ===
The current status of space-faring technology, including propulsion systems, navigation, resources and storage all present limitations to the development of human space exploration in the near future.


==== Distances ====
The astronomical order of magnitude of the distance between Earth and the nearest stars is a challenge for the current development of space exploration. At the current top speed of 70.2 km/s, the Helios 2 probe would arrive at the nearest star, Proxima Centauri, in around 18,000 years, much longer than a human lifespan and therefore requiring much faster transportation methods than currently available. This top speed was achieved due to the Oberth effect where the spacecraft was sped up by a combination of the Sun's gravity and its own propulsion system. The fastest escape velocity from the Solar System is that of Voyager 1 at 17 km/s.


==== Propulsion and fuel ====

In terms of propulsion, the main challenge is the liftoff and initial momentum, since there is no friction in the vacuum of space. Based on the missions goals, including factors such as distance, load and time of flight, the type of propulsion drive used, planned to use, or in design varies from chemical propellants, such as liquid hydrogen and oxidizer (Space Shuttle Main Engine), to plasma or even nanoparticle propellants. Another propulsion system that may be used is ion propulsion.

As for future developments, the theoretical possibilities of nuclear based propulsion have been analyzed over 60 years ago, such as nuclear fusion (Project Daedalus) and nuclear pulse propulsion (Project Longshot), but have since been discontinued from practical research by NASA. On the more speculative side, the theoretical Alcubierre drive presents a mathematical solution for “faster-than-light” travel, but it would require the mass-Energy of Jupiter, not to mention the technical issues.


=== Human limitations ===
The human element in crewed space exploration adds certain physiological and psychological issues and limitations to the future possibilities of space exploration, along with storage and sustenance space and mass issues.


==== Physiological issues ====
The transitioning gravity magnitudes on the body is detrimental to orientation, coordination, and balance. Without constant gravity, bones suffer disuse osteoporosis, and their mineral density falls 12 times faster than the average elderly adult's. Without regular exercise and nourishment, there can be cardiovascular deterioration and loss in muscle strength. Dehydration can cause kidney stones, and constant hydro-static potential in zero-g can shift body fluids upwards and cause vision problems.
Furthermore, without Earth's surrounding magnetic field as a shield, solar radiation has much harsher effects on biological organisms in space. The exposure can include damage to the central nervous system, (altered cognitive function, reducing motor function and incurring possible behavioral changes), as well as the possibility of degenerative tissue diseases.


==== Psychological issues ====

According to NASA, isolation in space can have detrimental effects on the human psyche. Behavioral issues, such as low morale, mood-swings, depression, and decreasing interpersonal interactions, irregular sleeping rhythms, and fatigue occur independently to the level of training, according to a set of NASA's social experiments. The most famous of which, Biosphere 2, was a 2 year long, 8 person crew experiment in the 1990s, in an attempt to study human necessities and survival in an isolated environment. The result of which were stressed interpersonal interactions and aloof behavior, including limiting and even ceasing contact between crew members, along with failing to sustain a lasting air-recycling system and food supply.


==== Resources and sustenance ====
Considering the future possibility of extended, crewed missions, food storage and resupply are relevant limitations. From a storage point of view, NASA estimates a 3-year Mars mission would require around 24 thousand pounds (11 t) of food, most of it in the form of precooked, dehydrated meals of about 1.5 pounds (0.68 kg) a portion. Fresh produce would only be available in the beginning of the flight, since there would not be refrigeration systems. Water's relative heavy weight is a limitation, so on the International Space Station (ISS) the use of water per person is limited to 11 litres (2.9 US gal) a day, compared to the average Americans' 132 litres (35 US gal). 

As for resupply, efforts have been made to recycle, reuse and produce, to make storage more efficient. Water can be produced through chemical reactions of Hydrogen and Oxygen in fuel cells, and attempts and methods of growing vegetables in micro-gravity are being developed and will continue to be researched. Lettuce and chinese cabbage has already successfully grown in the ISS's "Veggie plant growth system", and has been consumed by the astronauts, even though large-scale plant cultivation is still impractical due to factors such as pollination, long growth periods, and the need for development of more efficient growth systems.


== Artificial Intelligence and robotic space craft development ==
The idea of using high level automated systems for space missions has become a desirable goal to space agencies all around the world. Such systems are believed to yield benefits such as lower cost, less human oversight, and ability to explore deeper in space which is usually restricted by long communications with human controllers. Autonomy will be a key technology for the future exploration of the Solar System, where robotic spacecraft will often be out of communication with their human controllers.


=== Autonomous systems ===
Autonomy is defined by three requirements:

The ability to make and carry out decisions on their own, based on information on what they sensed from the world and their current state.
The ability to interpret the given goal as a list of actions to take.
The ability to fail flexibly, meaning they are able to continuously change their actions based on what is happening within their system and their surrounding.
Currently, there are many projects trying to advance space exploration and space craft development using AI.


==== NASA's autonomous science experiment ====
NASA began its autonomous science experiment (ASE) on Earth Observing-1 (EO-1), which is NASA's first satellite in the millennium program, Earth-observing series launched on November 21, 2000. The autonomy of these satellites is capable of on-board science analysis, re-planning, robust execution, and model-based diagnostic. Images obtained by the EO-1 are analyzed on-board and down linked when a change or interesting event occurs. The ASE software has successfully provided over 10,000 science images. This experiment was the start of many that NASA devised for AI to impact the future of space exploration.


==== Artificial Intelligence Flight Adviser ====
NASA's goal with this project is to develop a system that can aid pilots by giving them real-time expert advice in situations that pilot training does not cover or just aid with a pilot's train of thought during flight. Based on the IBM Watson cognitive computing system, the AI Flight Adviser pulls data from a large database of relevant information like aircraft manuals, accident reports, and close-call reports to give advice to pilots. In the future, NASA wants to implement this technology to create fully autonomous systems, which can then be used for space exploration. In this case, cognitive systems will serve as the basis, and the autonomous system will completely decide on the course of action of the mission, even during unforeseen situations. However, in order for this to happen, there are still many supporting technologies required.
In the future, NASA hopes to use this technology not only in flights on earth, but for future space exploration. Essentially, NASA plans to modify this AI flight Advisor for Longer range applications. In addition to what the technology is now, there will be additional cognitive computing systems that can decide on the right set of actions based upon unforeseen problems in space. However, in order for this to be possible, there are still many supporting technologies that need to be enhanced.


==== Stereo vision for collision avoidance ====
For this project, NASA's goal is to implement stereo vision for collision avoidance in space systems to work with and support autonomous operations in a flight environment. This technology uses two cameras within its operating system that have the same view, but when put together offer a large range of data that gives a binocular image. Because of its duo-camera system, NASA's research indicate that this technology can detect hazards in rural and wilderness flight environments. Because of this project, NASA has made major contributions toward developing a completely autonomous UAV. Currently, Stereo Vision can construct a stereo vision system, process the vision data, make sure the system works properly, and lastly performs tests figuring out the range of impeding objects and terrain. In the future, NASA hopes this technology can also determine the path to avoid collision. The near-term goal for the technology is to be able to extract information from point clouds and place this information in a historic map data. Using this map, the technology could then be able to extrapolate obstacles and features in the stereo data that are not in the map data. This would aid with the future of space exploration where humans can't see moving, impeding objects that may damage the moving space craft.


=== Benefits of AI ===
Autonomous technologies would be able to perform beyond predetermined actions. They would analyze all possible states and events happening around them and come up with a safe response. In addition, such technologies can reduce launch cost and ground involvement. Performance would increase as well. Autonomy would be able to quickly respond upon encountering an unforeseen event, especially in deep space exploration where communication back to Earth would take too long. Space exploration could provide us with the knowledge of our universe as well as incidentally developing inventions and innovations. Traveling to Mars and farther could encourage the development of advances in medicine, health, longevity, transportation, communications that could have applications on Earth.


=== Robotic spacecraft development ===


==== Energy ====


===== Solar panels =====
Changes in space craft development will have to account for an increased energy need for future systems. Spacecraft heading towards the center of the Solar System will include enhanced solar panel technology to make use of the abundant solar energy surrounding them. Future solar panel development is aimed at their working more efficiently while being lighter.


===== Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generators =====
Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generators (RTEG or RTG) are solid-state devices which have no moving parts. They generate heat from the radioactive decay of elements such as plutonium, and have a typical lifespan of more than 30 years. In the future, atomic sources of energy for spacecraft will hopefully be lighter and last longer than they do currently. They could be particularly useful for missions to the Outer Solar System which receives substantially less sunlight, meaning that producing a substantial power output with solar panels would be impractical.


== The private sector and space commercialization ==
NASA continues to focus on solving more difficult problems involving space exploration such as deep space capabilities and improving human life support systems. With that said, NASA has placed the challenge of commercializing space to the private space industry with the hopes of developing innovations which help improve human living conditions in space. Commercialization of space in the private sector will lead to reducing flight costs, developing new methods of sustaining human life in space, and will provide the opportunity for tourists to experience Low Earth orbit travel in the future.


=== Limitations to space commercialization ===
Experiencing Low Earth Orbit as a tourist requires accommodations to allow for humans to fly or spend time in space. These accommodations will need to solve the following problems:
          1. Physiological effects of living in microgravity will affect your body's chemistry and invoke symptoms such as motion sickness from disorientation. Long term gradual effects from time in space include Bone atrophy from a gravity scarce environment that limits the flow of minerals throughout the body.
          2. Upcoming habitats are designed for effective transport on rocket systems which means these habitats are small and confined leading to confinement problems and physiological changes in behavior like claustrophobia.
          3. Residing in Earth's orbit removes the protections of the Ozone layer which absorbs harmful radiation emitted from the Sun. Living in orbit around Earth exposes humans to ten times more radiation than humans living on Earth. These radiative effects can invoke symptoms such as skin cancer.
Company Advancements in Commercialization


=== Commercialization of space ===


==== SpaceX ====

In 2017 Elon Musk announced the development of rocket travel to transport humans from one city to another in under an hour. Elon has challenged SpaceX to improve travel across the world through his reusable rocket propulsion to send up passengers on a suborbital trajectory to their destination.


==== Virgin Galactic ====

The company Virgin Galactic with CEO Sir Richard Branson is developing another method to reach planes through Aircraft propulsion. Named SpaceshipTwo which is a biplane that carries a spacecraft as its payload known as White Knight Two and carries it to cruising altitude where the rocket separates and begins to climb out of Earth's atmosphere.


=== Blue Origin ===


==== New Shepard ====
The Blue Origin website highlights a small launch vehicle sending payloads into orbit. The goal is to reduce the cost of sending smaller payloads into orbit with future intentions to send humans into space. The first stage is reusable while the second stage is expendable. Maximum payload dimensions are expected to be around 530 cubic feet to be carried past the Karman line.


==== New Glenn ====
The larger variant of the New Shepard, Blue Origin seeks to increase their payload capabilities by developing a 95-meter-tall rocket capable of reusable flight to space. Its payload is expected to be satellites or to provide humans with the opportunity to view space without astronaut training. Blue Origin intends the rocket's reusability to last 25 flights into space alleviating costs increasing the possibility of commercialized travel.


==== Blue Moon ====
Blue Origin's lunar lander is designed to be a flexible lander with capabilities to send both cargo and crew to the lunar surface. This habitat will provide a sustained human presence by providing necessities such as life support systems and lunar rovers to excavate and scout the surrounding lunar surface. Further developments on this project include a Human Landing system which are detachable living quarters intended to attach and depart from the Blue Moon Lunar Lander.


==== Bigelow Aerospace Expandable Activity Module ====

The Bigelow Aerospace Corporation founded by Robert Bigelow is headquartered in Las Vegas. A research and development company with emphasis on constructing space architecture capable of housing humans and creating living conditions suitable for living in space. The company has sent two subscale spacecraft known as Genesis I and II into Low Earth Orbit along with sending a module known as Bigelow Expandable Activity Module (BEAM) which is inflated and attached to the International Space Station. The BEAM Module is measured to be 14 feet in length and can be inflated or deflated for ease of transportation. Bigelow Aerospace is working toward developing their own Modules independent of the International Space Station to send tourists and visitors.


== See also ==
Space exploration
List of proposed space observatories
Human mission to Mars
Space colonization


== References ==

Michael Hepburn (born 17 August 1991) is an Australian former professional track and road cyclist, who rode for UCI WorldTeam Team Jayco–AlUla.  He is a two-time Olympics silver medalist.
From Brisbane, Hepburn started competitively cycling at 14 years of age after making the change from triathlons.


== Sporting achievements ==
Some of Hepburn's notable achievements include winning the Under 23 road race in the Australian Open Road Championships when he was just 18, and winning the teams pursuit in the 2010 UCI Track Cycling World Championships in Denmark.  In 2009 he broke the world record in the U19 3000m Individual Pursuit at the 2009 Australian Track Championships before going on to break the same world record two more times to win at the 2009 Junior World Championships in Russia. He competed at the 2010 Delhi Commonwealth Games where he won a bronze medal in the Individual pursuit and a gold in the Team pursuit.
It was announced on 8 November 2011 that Hepburn would join the GreenEDGE team for their inaugural season in 2012.  In 2012, he won the silver medal in the men's team pursuit at the 2012 Olympics.  He competed in the men's road race and the men's time trial at the 2014 Commonwealth Games, finishing in 6th in the time trial.
He won silver in the same event at the 2016 Olympics.
In July 2018, he was named in the start list for the 2018 Tour de France.


== Major results ==


=== Road ===


==== Grand Tour general classification results timeline ====


=== Track ===


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Michael Hepburn at Wikimedia Commons

Michael Hepburn at UCI
Michael Hepburn at ProCyclingStats
Michael Hepburn at Cycling Quotient
Michael Hepburn at CycleBase
Michael Hepburn at Olympics.com
Michael Hepburn at the Australian Olympic Committee
Michael Hepburn at Olympedia
Michael Hepburn at the Commonwealth Games Federation (archived)
Michael Hepburn at the Commonwealth Games Federation (archived)
Michael Hepburn at InterSportStats

Dreams of a Life is a 2011 drama-documentary film, released by Dogwoof Pictures, directed by Carol Morley and starring Zawe Ashton as Joyce Carol Vincent, a London woman whose remains were discovered in her home in 2006, just over two years after she had died.


== Plot ==
The film tells the story of Joyce Vincent, whose skeletal remains were found in her flat in Wood Green, North London, in January 2006. Joyce was found surrounded by wrapped Christmas gifts and with her TV still switched on, having remained undiscovered since December 2003. Due to advanced decomposition, the cause of death could not be determined.
The film features interviews with various friends, acquaintances, former partners and individuals involved in the developing news story, including Vincent's MP, Lynne Featherstone, in an attempt to tell the story of Joyce, who is played in reconstructions by Ashton. Vincent's father is played by Cornell John.
The film confronts issues such as loneliness, even while living in one of the busiest cities, how loss of contact with family and friends can cause no one to notice a missing relative or friend, and how a body can go unnoticed in a room feet away from a busy street, without repercussions from unpaid rent and utilities.


== Production ==
Director Carol Morley was inspired to make the documentary on Joyce's life after reading an article  in a tabloid newspaper which she found discarded on the London Underground, which while describing Vincent failed to mention her age, race or any detailed information. She spent the next five years tracking down interviewees by taking out ads in newspapers, and hiring a cab to drive around London bearing a poster asking people to contact her if they knew Joyce. 
She was surprised to learn that many of the respondents did not know Joyce was dead until she spoke to them even though some of them remembered hearing of her death when it was reported on in newspapers. One of the first respondents to Morley's advert was Martin, who features prominently in the film, an ex-partner and one-time close friend who  was able to provide photographs for Morley. Martin then put her in touch with other friends, including an ex-landlord, ex-partner and friend who had recorded her singing in his studio.
Morley was criticised for an extended fictionalised sequence that featured Zawe Ashton as Joyce performing the song "A Smile is Just a Frown". She stated that she was inspired to keep the sequence in the film by a similar sequence in Agnès Varda's Cléo from 5 to 7 and also credited Varda's documentary work with inspiring much of her movie.
Morley was also in contact with Joyce's four sisters, all of whom refused to be in the film. Although they asked Morley not to make the film, she went ahead with production, but gave them an advance screening in order to show that she had been respectful in remembering their sister.


== Reception ==
On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a rating of 76% based on 29 reviews. On Metacritic the film has a score of 62% based on reviews from 10 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".
The Guardian described it as "empathic, brave, clever, haunting", while The New York Times reflected on the frustrating nature of the story only half told. The Telegraph described the film as a "tender, thoughtful and celebratory homage to Vincent's life".
In 2013, Ashton won a Screen Nation Award for Female Performance in a Film 2012/2013, in recognition of her lead-role performance in Dreams of a Life.


=== In popular culture ===
Steven Wilson's album Hand. Cannot. Erase. was inspired by his viewing of the film.
Paloma Faith's song "Lost and Lonely" from the album The Architect was written and recorded in response to seeing Dreams of a Life.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
"Did You Know Joyce Vincent". Archived from the original on 20 October 2008. Retrieved 29 June 2019.
Dreams of a Life at IMDb

The family of Imran Khan, the 19th Prime Minister of Pakistan and former captain of the Pakistan cricket team, is a prominent family of Pakistani origin with Niazi and Burki Pashtun ancestry. They are active in sports, politics, and the Pakistan Armed Forces. Imran, his third wife Bushra Bibi, and her children were the first family for the duration of his premiership. Imran's father Ikramullah Khan Niazi was a civil engineer, while his mother Shaukat Khanum was a housewife and daughter of a prominent civil servant. Imran has two children from his first wife, Jemima Goldsmith.


== Immediate family ==


=== Wives ===


==== Jemima Goldsmith ====

On 16 May 1995, Khan married Jemima Goldsmith, in a traditional Pakistani wedding ceremony in Paris. A month later, on 21 June, they were married again in a civil ceremony at the Richmond registry office in England, followed by a reception at the Goldsmiths' house in Surrey which was attended by London's elite. The wedding was named by the media as "The wedding of the century".
Jemima Marcelle Goldsmith is the eldest child of Lady Annabel Vane-Tempest-Stewart and Billionaire financier Sir James Goldsmith, who was one of richest men in UK. Goldsmith enrolled at the University of Bristol in 1993 and studied English, but dropped out when she was married in 1995. She eventually completed her bachelor's degree in March 2002 with upper second-class honours. In 2003, she received her MA in Middle Eastern Studies at the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, focusing on Modern Trends in Islam.
The marriage, described as "tough" by Khan, ended in 2004 after nine years. Shortly after their marriage, Imran and Jemima arrived at Zaman Park in Lahore from their honeymoon at one of the Goldsmiths' farms in Spain, and were greeted by international and local reporters. It was also announced that Jemima had converted to Islam and she would use 'Khan' as her last name.
As an agreement of his marriage, Khan spent four months a year in England and the rest in Lahore. The marriage produced two sons, Sulaiman Isa (born 18 November 1996) and Kasim (born 10 April 1999). During the marriage Jemima actively participated in a Khan led charity drive for the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital & Research Centre and also supported her husband in starting his initial political career.
Rumours circulated that the couple's marriage was in crisis. Jemima placed an advertisement in Pakistan newspapers to deny them. It read: "Whilst it is true that I am currently studying for a master's degree at the School of Oriental and African Studies in London, it is certainly not true to say that Imran and I are having difficulties in our marriage. This is a temporary arrangement." On 22 June 2004, it was announced that the couple had divorced, ending the nine-year marriage because it was "difficult for Jemima to adapt to life in Pakistan" despite both their best efforts.
The marriage ended amicably. Khan described the six months leading to the divorce and the six months after as the hardest years of his life. Following their divorce, Jemima returned to England with their sons.


==== Reham Khan ====

In January 2015, Imran Khan married British Pakistani journalist and television anchor Reham Khan. The marriage was conducted via a nikah ceremony at Khan's residence in Bani Gala. The marriage ended in divorce nine months later, in October 2015.
Reham is ethnic Pashtun, belonging to the Lughmani sub-clan of the Swati tribe. She comes from Mansehra in the Hazara region of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and speaks Hindko, in addition to Pashto and Urdu.


==== Bushra Bibi ====

Khan married Bushra Bibi, who was in her 40s, on 18 February 2018 at his residence in Lahore. The couple had been introduced to each other by Bushra's sister, Maryam Riaz Wattoo, who at the time led party operations in the United Arab Emirates She is known for her connection to Sufism; prior to her marriage with Khan, she had been his spiritual mentor (murshid). Bushra has two sons and three daughters, to whom Imran is a step-father, from her first marriage to Khawar Maneka.


=== Children ===


==== Sulaiman Isa Khan ====
Khan's eldest son with Jemima named Sulaiman Isa was born in November 1996 at the Portland Hospital in London.


==== Kasim Khan ====
Imran's second son with Jemima named Kasim was born on 10 April 1999 in England.


== Elementary family ==


=== Parents ===


==== Ikramullah Khan Niazi ====
Imran Khan's father, Ikramullah Khan Niazi, was born in Mianwali on 24 April 1922. He was a civil engineer who graduated from the Imperial College London in 1946 and was a member of the IMechE. Ikramullah was a staunch supporter of the Pakistan Movement during the days of the British Raj and was "fiercely anti-colonial"; he would tell off local waiters at the Lahore Gymkhana Club who would speak to him in English. He worked in the Pakistan Public Works Department and retired in 1959 as Superintending Engineer to establish the Republic Engineering Corporation Limited, a civil engineering consultant firm which was in negotiation with the Saudi Arabian government to provide its services in February 1977. 
He was also a philanthropist, founding a charity called the Pakistan Educational Society which "funded the university education of underprivileged but talented children." Ikramullah Niazi served as a board member of the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital & Research Centre (SKMCH&RC) in his later years. He died on 19 March 2008 at the age of 85 from pneumonia, after a protracted illness for which he was being treated at SKMCH&RC. He is buried at the family's ancestral graveyard in Mianwali.


==== Shaukat Khanum ====
 

Imran's mother, Shaukat Khanum, was a housewife. Born in 1922 in Jullundur to Ahmed Hassan Khan (1880-1955) and Amir Bano (1885-1985), she belonged to a Burki Pashtun family. She was the youngest child and had one brother, Ahmed Raza, and two sisters: Iqbal Bano, the wife of Wajid Ali Khan Burki and mother of cricketer Javed Burki, and Naema Khanum, the wife of Jahangir Khan and mother of cricketer Majid Khan. 
Imran credits his mother as having played a deep influential role in his upbringing. Recalling that he grew up with religion, with his mother teaching him Islamic history through bedtime stories. She told him tales of Moses and Pharaoh, Joseph and his brothers, and the life of the Islamic Prophet Muhammad, each carrying a moral lesson. 
One story that deeply resonated with Imran was about an elderly Meccan who wanted to convert to Islam because his entire clan had done so but admitted that he was too old to change his habits. The Prophet Muhammad advised him, "Tell the truth. That is the one thing you need to be a Muslim."
She also shared how her father, Ahmed Hassan Khan, modeled his life after the Prophet, with Ahmed often saying, "This is what the Prophet did," even in small habits like his fondness for honey and dates.
In 1985, she died at the age of 63 due to cancer. The helplessness and personal experience of seeing his mother diagnosed with cancer, motivated Khan to build a cancer hospital in Pakistan where those who could not afford expensive care could be treated well. In 1994, the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Cancer Hospital & Research Centre was founded by Khan in Lahore, and named in memory of his mother. A second Shaukat Khanum cancer hospital has been inaugurated in Peshawar, while plans are underway for a third hospital to be located in Karachi.


=== Siblings ===
Khan has four sisters: Rubina Khanum, Aleema Khanum, Uzma Khanum and Noreen Niazi.
Khan's elder sister, Rubina Khanum, is an alumnus of the London School of Economics and held a senior post with the United Nations.
Aleema Khanum is an entrepreneur and philanthropist who is the founder of a Lahore-based textile buying house, CotCom Sourcing (Pvt.) Ltd. She graduated with an MBA from the Lahore University of Management Sciences in 1989. Her textile buying house has served textile retailers and agents across the globe, and maintains representative offices in Karachi and New York. Aleema served as marketing director for the Shaukat Khanum Memorial Trust Hospital, and played an instrumental role in fundraising efforts for the hospital. She is a member of the board of governors of the hospital. She is also a member of the board of the Imran Khan Foundation and Namal Education Foundation, and several charitable and social welfare organisations including the Hameed Muggo Trust and the SAARC Association of Home-Based Workers.
Of Khan's other sisters, Uzma Khanum is a qualified surgeon based in Lahore while Rani Khanum is a university graduate who coordinates charity activities.
Shortly after her marriage to Imran Khan, Jemima Khan acknowledged the support she received from Khan's sisters while adjusting to life in Lahore and described them as "educated, strong women, with lives of their own."


== Paternal family ==

Imran Khan's father belonged to the Niazi Pashtun tribe, who were long settled in Mianwali in northwestern Punjab. Khan's paternal family hail from the Shermankhel sub-clan of the Niazis. One of Imran's ancestors was said to have killed a lion with his bare hands during a hunting expedition. He reportedly entered Mianwali carrying the lion on his shoulders, and the event left such an impression that his clan became known as Shermankhel, meaning "descendants of the lion killer."
The Niazis had come to the subcontinent with invading Afghan tribes during the fifteenth century. Imran identifies Haibat Khan Niazi as a paternal ancestor, a sixteenth century military general of Sher Shah Suri and later governor of Punjab.
The Niazis mainly speak Saraiki and are based in Mianwali and surrounding areas, where family and tribal networks are strong and where, according to Khan, "even third cousins know each other".


=== Grandparents ===
Imran Khan's paternal grandfather, Muhammad Azeem Khan Niazi, was a physician. His paternal family's ancestral haveli (mansion), known as Azeem Manzil, is located in Shermankhel Mahallah, Mianwali. Named after his grandfather who built it, the mansion remains home to Khan's extended relatives. It spans ten kanals, with the family's ancestral graveyard—where his paternal grandfather, grandmother, and father are buried—situated nearby.
Khan began his political campaign from Mianwali in 2002, winning his first seat in the National Assembly from the city which he calls his hometown.


=== Uncles ===
Azeem Khan Niazi had four sons: Ikramullah Khan Niazi (Imran's father), Amanullah Khan Niazi, Zafarullah Khan Niazi, and Faizullah Khan Niazi. Imran's paternal uncle Amanullah was a lawyer and politician, serving as a senior member of the Muslim League, while Zafarullah Khan Niazi was a businessman. Imran's father, Ikramullah, along with his uncles Zafarullah and Amanullah, previously lived in the family haveli, which now belongs to Khan's cousin, Inamullah Niazi.


=== Cousins ===
Zafarullah Khan Niazi had several sons, including Khan's paternal cousin Inamullah Niazi; a politician and former parliamentarian who was a member of the Pakistan Muslim League (N) for nearly two decades, before becoming senior vice-president of Khan's Tehreek-e-Insaf in Punjab in 2013. He later rejoined the PML (N), following a dispute over election ticket distributions. Inamullah's brother and occasional columnist Hafeez Ullah Niazi is also Imran's brother-in-law, through cousin marriage to Imran's sister. They have other brothers, including Irfan Ullah Khan Niazi, and their youngest brother, the late Najeebullah Khan Niazi.
According to Dawn, many members of Khan's paternal tribe, and particularly his cousins, have been traditional supporters of Khan's rival party, the PML-N, even after Khan founded his own party. The newspaper noted that Khan's ancestral home functioned "partially as a local office for the PML-N" and that instead of Khan, the family home featured posters of the Sharifs and pictures of other family members. Inamullah was reportedly unhappy when he was snubbed and not given an election ticket from the PTI's platform, causing Inamullah and his brothers to part ways with Khan and heavily criticise him on the media. Commenting on the bitter family politics, Khan once said: "What should I say? It is a family matter. They are my brothers, Hafizullah and Saeedullah, and their contributions to PTI are great. Inamullah was new to the party... but I did [what I thought was fair]."
Another cousin, Saeedullah Khan Niazi was the president of the PTI in Punjab. He also has a cousin, Ahmed Khan Niazi, who serves as his head of security. Other cousins include Amin Ullah Khan and Major General Sanaullah Khan Niazi.


== Maternal family ==

Imran's mother Shaukat Khanum belonged to the Burki Pashtun tribe. The Burkis speak their own dialect, an Iranian language distinct from Pashto known as Ormuri (also called the Burki dialect). There are various theories about the origins of the Burkis, the family believes that they migrated from Türkiye Doğu Anadolu Bölgesi over at least eight centuries ago, and settled in the mountains of Kaniguram. Another theory, as discussed by Robert Leech (1838), ascribes a "Farsiwan" or "Tajik" origin with ancestry from Yemen, from whence they arrived in Afghanistan and were later brought to India along with the army of Mehmood Ghaznavi. According to Leech, the tribe had two divisions in Afghanistan's Logar Province; one in Baraki Rajan, which spoke Persian, and one in Baraki Barak, where they spoke the Burki dialect. Leech added that the Burkis of Kaniguram spoke the Burki dialect, just like their kinsmen in Barak.
According to a tribal legend, they may have served as bodyguards for Mehmood Ghaznavi who conquered much of Afghanistan, Pakistan and parts of northern India in the eleventh century, and were awarded lands. They made their living as traders, taking horses and silk to India. Some members of the Burki tribe emigrated from Kaniguram around 1600 AD and formed a settlement in the city of Jullundur (40 miles from Lahore), where Khan's mother was born. According to Khan, his maternal family had been based in Jalandhar for over 600 years before migrating to Pakistan after the Partition of British India. His mother's family played an instrumental role in establishing the Islamia College in Jalandhar.
Maternally, Khan is a descendant of the Sufi warrior-poet and inventor of the Pashto alphabet, Pir Roshan, a Burki born in Jullundur who hailed from Kaniguram. According to a Burki historian, K. Hussain Zia, the Burki emigration from Kaniguram was prompted by a severe drought; "The elders decided that some people would have to leave in order for the others to survive. It was thus that 40 families bade farewell to Kaniguram. The entire population walked with them for some miles and watched from the top of a hill till they were out of sight." These forty caravans would eventually arrive in Jalandhar, an area which the Burkis were already acquainted with previously, on account of their trading routes to India via the Grand Trunk Road. 
In Jullundur, the Burkis established twelve fortified villages referred to as "bastis", known as Basti Pathan (lit. Pathan Colony). To preserve their ethnic identity and keep their Pashtun culture intact in India, they did not marry outside their tribe. Khan's maternal grandfather, Ahmed Hasan Khan, was a civil servant and was known to have hosted Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah, the Founder of Pakistan, at Basti Pathan. Until the 18th century, the Jalandhar Burkis retained ties and trading links with their kinsmen back in Kaniguram. However, these links were cut off following local instability during Sikh resistance against the Mughal Empire. As a result of this, the Jalandhar Burkis lost much of their language and cultural traits, adopting the Punjabi language.
Following the Partition of British India and the Independence of Pakistan in 1947, the entire Burki clan migrated to Lahore in Pakistan, escaping the carnage and violence that ensued during the partition. In Lahore, the Burkis settled in an affluent area which came to be known as Zaman Park, and it was here among his maternal family where Imran Khan spent much of his youth growing up. The area is named after Imran's maternal grandfather's brother (i.e. grand-uncle), Khan Bahadur Mohammed Zaman Khan, who settled in Lahore before the partition and was serving as postmaster general of the Punjab Province (British India). When the Burkis from Jalandhar arrived to Lahore, they took shelter in Zaman's house and eventually took up surrounding houses vacated by Hindus who left for India. Thus, all of Imran's maternal family established themselves in Zaman Park. Imran's parents built their house in the same area, which he now owns. Imran grew up playing cricket with his cousins in the neighbourhood. The name Zaman Park came from the presence of a park, around which the houses were located.
Imran Khan's maternal family is known for its sporting tradition; the Burki clan has produced a long line of cricketers and played an influential role in Pakistan's cricket history. Eight of his cousins played first-class cricket. The most prominent of them are Javed Burki and Majid Khan, who went on to represent the national team and served as captains. In total, up to forty members of the Burki tribe have at some point played first-class cricket in British India or Pakistan. Two of Imran's mother's cousins also captained the Pakistan national field hockey team.


=== Great-grandfather ===
Imran's maternal great-grandfather, Ahmad Shah Khan, (born 2 November 1840 — died 1 February 1921), served as a civil servant, honorary district judge, and President of the All-India Muslim League in Jullundur.


=== Grandparents ===
Imran's maternal grandfather Ahmad Hasan Khan was born in 1880 and had also been a civil servant. He entered the Government College Lahore in 1900, and was reputed in sport, captaining the cricket and football teams at the college. After completing his studies, Ahmed entered the government service. At the height of his career in civil service, he served as the census commissioner of Punjab. He was posted in various areas, including a posting as a District Commissioner in Mianwali (the hometown of Imran Khan's paternal family). Imran writes his mother "instilled in me a pride that the Pashtuns had never been subjugated and had constantly fought the British. Her family had ended up living in twelve fortresses, known as basti Pathan, near the town of Jalandhar (where she took much pride in saying my grandfather had hosted Muhammad Ali Jinnah)."
Writing on his maternal grandmother, Amir Bano, Khan said that his mother would "make us children go to see our maternal grandmother with our cousins every day for half an hour. These evenings with her were most enjoyable. She would know everything that was going on in our lives. In fact she would get involved in all our problems and we would tell her things that even our parents would not know." According to Khan, his grandmother died at the age of a hundred and "all her mental faculties were fully intact." He also writes that his grandmother died shortly after his own mother died in 1985, and that she might have lived longer but could not get over the loss; "my mother being her youngest child... It almost seemed as if she decided it was time for her to go. She refused to get out of bed and three months after my mother's death she passed away."


=== Uncles and aunts ===

Ahmed Hasan Khan had four daughters: the eldest, Iqbal Bano, followed by Mubarak and Shaukat (Imran's mother). Another sister is said to have died early. Ahmed Raza Khan (Imran's maternal uncle) was the only son. Ahmed Raza was known affectionately by his friends as "Aghajan", and played fifteen first-class cricket matches in India and Pakistan, playing for Northern India followed by Punjab. He later served as a national selector on the Pakistan Cricket Board.
Imran's eldest maternal aunt, Iqbal Bano, was married to Dr. Wajid Ali Khan Burki, a high-ranking medical corps officer and physician in the Pakistan Army. Imran's second aunt, Mubarak, was married to Jahangir Khan. Jahangir was a cricketer during the British Raj era and played for India. He later served as a cricket administrator in Pakistan until his resignation when his son Majid was close to national selection. He resigned from the post to maintain the impartiality of the Cricket Board.
Imran's uncles Humayun Zaman, Javed Zaman (his cricket mentor), and Ahmed Fuad Zaman, also played first-class cricket and were the sons of Khan Bahadur Zaman Khan, the founder of Zaman Park. Ahmed Fuad retired as a Brigadier in the Pakistan Army.
One of Pakistan's leading English-language columnists, Khaled Ahmed (1943-2024), who belongs to the Burki tribe, was also an uncle of Imran.


=== Cousins ===

Wajid Ali Khan Burki and Iqbal Bano's eldest son, Jamshed Burki, is a retired army captain and civil servant who served as a political agent in the Khyber Agency of the tribal areas and went on to become the Interior Secretary of Pakistan. Their second son, Javed Burki, briefly played cricket for Pakistan during the 1960s and also captained the national side. After retiring from cricket, Javed served as secretary to the Ministry of Water and Power of the Government of Pakistan. Their third son, Nausherwan Burki, is a US-based physician and pulmonologist who played an instrumental role in setting up Imran's Shaukat Khanum Cancer Hospital and serves in its board of governors; he was also among the original founders of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf in 1996. 
Jahangir Khan and Mubarak's eldest son Asad Jahangir won an Oxford Blue in cricket and was a first-class cricketer in Pakistan, later serving as Inspector General of the Sindh Police. Their second son, Majid Khan became a cricket legend who captained the national side of Pakistan during the 1970s. Majid's son Bazid Khan is also a cricketer who has played at the national level. 
Sherandaz Khan, Ijaz Khan, Babar Zaman, and Major General Bilal Omer Khan, are also cousins of Imran Khan.


== Extended family ==
Imran's nephew Hassaan Niazi headed the Insaf Students Federation, the student wing of the PTI. He also has many other nephews. PTI's Additional General Secretary Saifullah Niazi belongs to the Niazi clan and is a distant relative. Pakistani cricket captain Misbah-ul-Haq also belongs to the Niazi tribe in Mianwali and shares blood relations with Imran Khan paternally. 
One of Imran's father's cousins, Sajjad Sarwar Niazi, was a poet and music composer who served as the director of the Peshawar Radio Station, while his daughter Nahid Niazi earned fame as a singer. Nahid was married to a prominent Bengali music composer Moslehudin, and her sister Najma Niazi was also a popular singer.
Shaukat Khanum's cousin Mrs. Lt Col. Zaheer-ud-Din, has two sons Lt. Col. Muhammad Omer Khan and Muhammad Ali Khan, who is a banker serving as a Vice President in MCB Bank Limited. Her grandson, Moin Khan holds a record for traveling from California, America to Lahore, Pakistan on a sports bike.
Imran's uncle Jahangir's brother-in-law Baqa Jilani also played cricket for India. Jilani's nephew, Sherandaz Khan, was a first-class cricketer, and another distant cousin of Imran from the Burki tribe. He was also the first bowler to dismiss Imran in first-class cricket. The Pakistani economist Shahid Javed Burki is an extended relative of Imran.
Imran Khan is said to be a distant cousin of the British-Pakistani heart surgeon Hasnat Khan, who had a relationship with Lady Diana. Lawyer and PTI member Hamid Khan is also a relative.
Imran's great-uncle Khan Salamuddin and many members of Salamuddin's extended family also made a name in cricket.
Many family relatives of Imran, from both the paternal and maternal sides, have served in the Pakistan Armed Forces. Major General Bilal Omar Khan, who died in the 2009 Rawalpindi mosque attack was from Khan's maternal family. Major General Sanaullah Khan Niazi was from Imran's paternal family and was assassinated in a roadside blast. Another extended relative, General Zahid Ali Akbar Khan, was an engineering officer in the Pakistan Army, director of the nuclear Project-706, and later chairman of the Pakistan Cricket Board.


== See also ==
Pets of Imran Khan
Pakistan


== References ==


== Bibliography ==

Chersotis andereggii is a moth of the family Noctuidae.


== Subspecies ==
Chersotis andereggii andereggi (Alps)
Chersotis andereggii arcana (southern Finland, northern Estonia)
Chersotis andereggii subtilis (Himalayas (Ladakh))


== Description ==
Chersotis andereggii has a wingspan of 29–32 mm. These relatively small moths are generally greyish-brown, with large dark orbicular and claviform markings. Warren states ab. andereggii Boisd. of R. rectangula  is  darker, without the grey irroration, the lines not showing paler.


== Biology ==
Adults are on wing from the end of July to the first half of August. The larvae feed on Lychnis, Melilotus and Trifolium species.


== Distribution ==
This species can be found in Europe (Bulgaria, East European Russia, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Italy, Switzerland), in the southern Urals, Turkey, north-western Iran, Transcaucasia, Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan, Kirghizia, the Altai Mountains, the Sayan Mountains, Baikal, Kamchatka, Mongolia, the Himalaya, the Alps.


== Habitat ==
These moths live in alpine meadows and steppe slopes.


== Bibliography ==
Erstbeschreibung: BOISDUVAL („1834“): Icones historique des lépidoptères d'Europe nouveaux ou peu connus 2: 1–192, pl. 47–84. Paris (Roret).
COWAN, C. F. (1970): Boisduval's Icones Historiques des Lépidoptères d'Europe "1832" [-1841]. — Journal of the Society for the Bibliography of Natural History 5 (4): 291–302
HUEMER, P. (2013): Die Schmetterlinge Österreichs (Lepidoptera). Systematische und faunistische Checkliste. – 304 S. (Studiohefte 12); Innsbruck (Tiroler Landesmuseen-Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H.).


== References ==


== External links ==
Noctuinae (Noctuidae) collection of Siberian Zoological Museum
Lepiforum

Zajonc or Zayonc (Polish pronunciation: ['zajɔnts]) is a surname. It is a spelling variant of Zając, meaning "hare" in Polish. Notable people with the surname include:

Arthur Zajonc (born 1949), American physicist and writer
Miroslav Zajonc or Miro Zayonc (born 1960), American luger
Rick Zayonc (born 1959), Canadian water polo player
Robert Zajonc (1923–2008), American social psychologist


== Fictional characters ==
Inga Zajonc, "Polish beauty", childhood friend of Ostap Bender


== See also ==
All pages with titles containing Zajonc
All pages with titles containing Zayonc
32294 Zajonc, a main belt asteroid
Jeffrey Zients (born 1966), an American business executive and government official

The surname Breytenbach originates from Germany. Notable people with the name include:

Anna Breytenbach (born 1968), South African animal activist and public speaker
Breyten Breytenbach (1939–2024), South African writer, poet, and painter
Coenraad Breytenbach (born 1970), South African rugby player
Glynnis Breytenbach (fl. 2014), prosecutor for the National Prosecuting Authority
Jan Breytenbach (1932–2024), South African military officer and author
Joe Breytenbach (born 1983), South African rugby player
Johan Hendrik Breytenbach (1917–1994), South African historian
Martin Breytenbach (fl. 2000–2019), South African Anglican bishop
Nadja Breytenbach (born 1995), Namibian model and Miss Namibia 2019
Pierre Breytenbach (born 1976), South African actor and comic


== See also ==
Breitenbach (disambiguation)

Breytenbach Neil - South African songwriter and keyboard player for the rock band Prime Circle

Edith Sim is a British researcher who is an emeritus professor at Kingston University and the University of Oxford. She was awarded the 2012 British Pharmacological Society John Vane Medal and a lifetime achievement award in 2015 from the Arylamine N-acetyltransferases Workshop Group.


== Early life and education ==
Sim was born and raised in Hilltown, Dundee. Her father Joe ran his own company repairing mechanical office equipment and her mother Edith Snr had worked as a seamstress before joining her husband in helping to run his business. She was an only child, and her grandmother died of tuberculosis. She attended Morgan Academy, where she was the only girl in her chemistry class. She eventually attended a short course at the University of Edinburgh in biochemistry, which motivated her to apply for an undergraduate degree. She moved to the University of Oxford as a doctoral researcher. After earning her doctorate she moved to Grenoble, where she worked as a postdoctoral researcher.


== Research and career ==
Sim's research is at the intersection of chemistry and biology. She joined the faculty at Oxford in 1983, where she was made Head of Pharmacology in 2000. She dedicated her career to understanding the enzyme in tuberculosis. She identified the structure of arylamine N-acetyltransferase and defined the mechanism of action using a catalytic triad. In 2010, Sim moved to Kingston University as dean of science, Engineering and Computing.
In 2012, Sim was awarded the British Pharmacological Society John Vane Medal. She was appointed to the governing body of Abertay University in 2022.


== Awards and honours ==
2012 John Vane Medal
2015 Lifetime achievement award from the Arylamine N-acetyltransferases Workshop Group


== Selected publications ==
Seymour Garte; Laura Gaspari; Anna-Karin Alexandrie; et al. (1 December 2001). "Metabolic gene polymorphism frequencies in control populations". Cancer Epidemiology. 10 (12): 1239–1248. ISSN 1055-9965. PMID 11751440. Wikidata Q46857953.
Robert Van der Geize; Katherine Yam; Thomas Heuser; et al. (30 January 2007). "A gene cluster encoding cholesterol catabolism in a soil actinomycete provides insight into Mycobacterium tuberculosis survival in macrophages". Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America. 104 (6): 1947–1952. Bibcode:2007PNAS..104.1947V. doi:10.1073/pnas.0605728104. ISSN 0027-8424. PMC 1794314. PMID 17264217. Wikidata Q28486798.
Kostas P. Vatsis; Wendell W. Weber; Douglas A. Bell; et al. (February 1995). "Nomenclature for N-acetyltransferases". Pharmacogenetics and Genomics. 5 (1): 1–17. doi:10.1097/00008571-199502000-00001. ISSN 1744-6872. PMID 7773298. Wikidata Q28302652.


== References ==

Lagrivea is a fossil genus of squirrel from the Middle Miocene of France. The single species, L. vireti, is known from three mandibles (lower jaws) and two isolated teeth. All come from the fissure filling (a fossil deposit formed when a rock fissure filled with sediment) of La Grive L5, part of the La Grive-Saint-Alban complex in Saint-Alban-de-Roche, southeastern France. Lagrivea was a large tree squirrel with flat lower incisors and a large, triangular fourth lower premolar (p4). Each of the four cheekteeth (p4 and three molars, m1 through m3) bears a deep basin in the middle of the crown. The m3 is about rectangular in shape, but rounded at the back. Although m1 and m2 have two roots, m3 has three.


== Taxonomy ==
Pierre Mein and Léonard Ginsburg described Lagrivea vireti in 2002 in a review of the ages and faunas of the Miocene fossil sites of La Grive-Saint-Alban in southeastern France. They suggested that it was probably a tree squirrel and related to the Sciurini. Lagrivea belongs to the squirrel family (Sciuridae), which first appears in the Late Eocene of North America and Early Oligocene of Europe. The specific name, vireti, honors Jean Viret for his work on the mammals of La Grive-Saint-Alban.


== Description ==

Lagrivea is known from three mandibles (lower jaws)—one, the holotype, with the fourth premolar (p4) and all three molars (m1–3) preserved; one with the incisor and m2; and one with the incisor, p4, m1, and m2—an isolated lower incisor, and an isolated m2. It was large for a squirrel, and can be distinguished from the fossil squirrels Palaeosciurus, Aliveria, and Ratufa obtusidens by its larger size.
In the mandible, the diastema (gap) between the incisors and the cheekteeth (premolars and molars) is relatively deep. The mental foramen (an opening in the bone) is located relatively high and before the p4. The upper and lower masseteric ridges, which are located on the outer side of the jaw and anchor some of the chewing muscles, meet at the m1. The surfaces of the incisor are very flat, but there are small, irregular striations in the enamel along the length of the tooth.
The cheekteeth increase regularly in size from front to back. They all consist of a large central basin surrounded by cusps and crests. The basins are deeper than in Palaeosciurus and Ratufa obtusidens and lack crenulations in the enamel, which distinguishes them from another fossil squirrel, Albanensia. The first cheekteeth, p4, is large and about triangular in form, short and quite broad at the back. The two cusps at the front, the protoconid and metaconid, are isolated from each other. In front of the metaconid, there is a small cuspule, an anteroconid, at the lingual side of the tooth (the side of the tongue). The central basin of the tooth is relatively deep. At the back of the tooth, the entoconid cusp is connected to the posterolophid, a crest that forms the back margin. Of the two roots, the one at the front is round and the one at the back is broad.
Although m1 is nearly rectangular, the width at the front is still smaller than the width at the back. There is a strong anteroconid. A crest, the metalophid, reaches from the protoconid nearly to the metaconid. A small cusp, the mesostylid, is connected to the metaconid in front of it, unlike in Miopetaurista and Aliveria. There are two broad roots. The next tooth, m2, is similar to m1 in most respects, but the width at the front is virtually equal to the width at the back, so that the tooth is about rectangular. The back of m3 is rounded, but the tooth is still nearly rectangular. There is a long anteroconid, which is mainly connected to the metaconid. There is no metalophid. This tooth has three roots: two at the front and a larger one at the back.


== Range and context ==
The remains of Lagrivea were probably collected by Viret at the site La Grive L5 in the village of Saint-Alban-de-Roche, department of Isère, southeastern France. La Grive L5 is one of several fissure filling sites in the area, collectively known as La Grive-Saint-Alban, which have yielded rich fossil faunas. Another site, La Grive M, is the reference locality for the MN zone MN 7/8, about 13 to 11 million years ago. La Grive L5 is one of the younger sites of La Grive, and Mein and Ginsburg proposed placing it in a separate zone MN 8.  Other squirrels at La Grive-Saint-Alban include species of Heteroxerus, Spermophilinus, Palaeosciurus, and chipmunks, and flying squirrels in the genera Albanensia, Miopetaurista, Forsythia, Hylopetes, and Blackia. Miopetaurista neogrivensis, Spermophilinus bredai, and Heteroxerus huerzeleri are also known from La Grive L5. In 2012, Ginsburg and Mein described an indeterminate squirrel from the older (MN 6) site of Sansan, France, on the basis of a single p4. This tooth is similar in size to Lagrivea, but differs in a narrower talonid.


== References ==


== Literature cited ==
Ginsburg, L. and Mein, P. 2012. Les Sciuridae (Rodentia) de Sansan. Mémoires du Muséum national d'Histoire naturelle 203:81–94.
McKenna, M.C. and Bell, S.K. 1997. Classification of Mammals: Above the species level. New York: Columbia University Press, 631 pp. ISBN 978-0-231-11013-6
Mein, P. and Ginsburg, L. 2002. Sur l'âge relatif des différents karstiques miocènes de La Grive-Saint-Alban (Isère). Cahiers scientifiques, Muséum d'Histoire naturelle, Lyon 2:7–47 (in French).
Steininger, F. 1999. Chronostratigraphy, geochronology and biochronology of the Miocene "European Land Mammal Mega-Zones (ELMMZ)" and the Miocene "Mammal Zones (MN-Zones)". Pp. 9–24 in Rössner, G.E. and Heissig, K. (eds.). The Miocene Land Mammals of Europe. Munich: Verlag Dr. Friedrich Pfeil, 515 pp.

Defending champion Novak Djokovic defeated Roger Federer in a rematch of the previous year's final, 7–6(7–1), 6–7(10–12), 6–4, 6–3 to win the gentlemen's singles tennis title at the 2015 Wimbledon Championships. It was his third Wimbledon title and ninth major title overall. Federer was the first man in the Open Era to reach ten finals at the same major. Djokovic's win against Federer also marked his 200th match win at the majors.
In the second round, 102nd-ranked Dustin Brown upset two-time champion Rafael Nadal. Brown previously defeated Nadal on a grass court just a year prior at the Gerry Weber Open, the only other time the two had played each other. This marked the fourth straight year in which Nadal suffered an early exit from the tournament by losing to a player ranked outside the world's top 100.
2002 champion Lleyton Hewitt made his final Wimbledon singles appearance, losing to Jarkko Nieminen in the first round. This was the first major since the 2002 US Open where then-world No. 8 David Ferrer did not participate (due to an elbow injury), ending his streak of 50 consecutive major appearances. This was also the first major main draw appearance for future world No. 2, French Open champion, two-time ATP Finals champion and Olympic gold medalist Alexander Zverev; he lost to Denis Kudla in the second round.


== Seeds ==

Click on the seed number of a player to go to their draw section.


== Qualifying ==


== Draw ==
Key


=== Finals ===


=== Top half ===


==== Section 1 ====


==== Section 2 ====


==== Section 3 ====


==== Section 4 ====


=== Bottom half ===


==== Section 5 ====


==== Section 6 ====


==== Section 7 ====


==== Section 8 ====


== References ==


== External links ==
Main draw Archived 26 June 2015 at the Wayback Machine
2015 Wimbledon Championships – Men's draws and results at the International Tennis Federation

Rajpur Farhadwa (Nepali: राजपुर) is a municipality in Rautahat District, a part of Madhesh Province in Nepal. It was formed in 2016 occupying current 9 sections (wards) from previous 9 former VDCs. It occupies an area of 31.41 km2 with a total population of 41,136 as of 2011.


== References ==

William Higgins may refer to:


== Sports ==
Alexander Higgins (footballer, born 1870) (William Alexander Higgins, 1870–?), English footballer
William Higgins (English cricketer) (1850–1926), English cricketer
William Higgins (New Zealand cricketer) (1888–1968), New Zealand cricketer
William Higgins (rugby league), rugby league footballer of the 1900s for Wales League XIII, and Ebbw Vale
William Higgins (tennis), American tennis player of the 1960s and 1970s
William S. Higgins (1894–1944), American college football player, coach, and official, college basketball coach, and dentist
Bill Higgins (baseball) (1859–1919), American baseball player
Bill Higgins (basketball) (born 1952), American basketball player
Bill Higgins (hurler), Irish hurler
Billy Higgins (karateka) (born 1945), British karateka
Billy Higgins (Scottish footballer) (born 1940), Scottish footballer
Billy Higgins (English footballer) (1924–1981), English football winger


== Politicians ==
William J. Higgins (1880–1943), lawyer, judge and political figure in Newfoundland
William L. Higgins (1867–1951), U.S. Representative from Connecticut


== Others ==
William Higgins (chemist) (1763–1825), Irish chemist
William Higgins (director) (1942–2019), American director of gay pornographic films
William R. Higgins (1945–1990), United States Marine Corps colonel, killed in Lebanon
William Victor Higgins (1884–1949), American painter and teacher
Billy Higgins (vaudeville) (1888–1937),  American vaudeville entertainer
Billy Higgins (1936–2001), American jazz drummer
William Higgins (high constable), first high constable of Toronto
William Higgins (priest) (died 1666), Anglican priest


== See also ==
William Higgins Coleman (1812–1863), English botanist

Catapult were a Dutch glam rock band active between 1973 and 1979. The band was formed by and consisted of Aart Mol (born 31 January 1953), Cees Bergman (22 April 1952 – 21 September 2017), Erwin van Prehn (1950–2018) and Geertjan Hessing (born 5 July 1951), and later joined by Elmer Veerhoff (born 19 August 1954).


== History ==


=== Music career ===
In 1967, Aart Mol met Geertjan Hessing at his home in the Warmonderweg in Oegstgeest, Leiden, who wanted to play the drums and also knew a singer, Theo van Es. The three were joined by guitarist Erwin van Prehn, and formed the rock band Axis Purple, which, according to Hessing, "motivated [them] to become professionals". They performed at venues including Leyton, Het Volkshuis and Zaal Mekel. After Axis Purple ended, the members met ex-Golden Earring drummer Jaap Eggermont, and performed as Chamberlain in the 1970s. In June 1973, during a holiday in the Spanish resort of Lloret de Mar, Hessing, Van Prehn, Mol and Cees Bergman decided to form a band. As with the former three, Bergman was a veteran of the Leiden/Katwijk rock scene, but their previous other groups, such as Axis Purple (Leiden) and Oriental Garden (Katwijk), had achieved little success up to that time. During their stay, they drew up plans for their band and started taking their work seriously. Various holiday girlfriends, having heard of their plans, gave them many words of encouragement. Upon returning home, they immediately quit jobs and dropped out of school to concentrate on their work. The band was advised by Eggermont to start playing glam rock, a popular genre of music at the time. Assisted by their manager Aad van Delft, the band chose 1 September 1973 as their official starting date. Later that month, keyboard player Michael Eschauzier joined them. The band's name was suggested by Golden Earring vocalist Barry Hay. The band's logo was designed by Wim T. Schippers. In an episode of Toppop Yeah, Bergman revealed the amount of effort it took to get his long bleached haircut for the band.
On 23 November 1973, the band played their first gig supporting Golden Earring in the Maassluis Sport Hall. After that, they worked on their first single, "Hit The Big Time", produced by Eggermont and recorded at Phonogram Studio in Hilversum in December 1973. The single was a raunchy, catchy and energetic song about their stay in Spain. Released in February 1974, it reached No. 16 on the Dutch Singles Chart. In April 1974, Eschauzier was replaced by Elmer Veerhoff. The band had an album and several hit singles between 1974 and 1975, the most successful being "Let Your Hair Hang Down", which reached No. 5 on the Dutch Singles Chart; "Teeny Bopper Band", "Seven Eleven", and "The Stealer". When glam rock started to decline in popularity in the mid-1970s, the band's singles sold less. Their last single, "Here We Go", peaked No. 22 on the Dutch Singles Chart. On 23 December 1979, Catapult  gave their farewell gig in the "Feest Paleis" in Beervelde.


=== After Catapult ===
As their popularity began to fade, the band decided that it was time for something different. They wanted to make music in different styles, which was difficult because of their Leiden dialect and Dutch radio stations and television channels' refusal to accept the quintet's ability to do so. With advice from DJ Willem van Kooten, they started writing and producing music for other artists, including Lia Velasco, Patricia Paay, Liberation of Man, The Internationals, The Surfers, Rita Hovink, and Snoopy. The records were produced by Eggermont and financed by Van Kooten. Van Kooten played the music in his own daily program on Hilversum 3, and at the same time received part of the royalties. Around that time, they were all living together and recording music in an Arendshorst apartment in Merenwijk, but the neighbours were constantly complaining about the noise.
Many years later, Mol, Hessing and Van Prehn played in other bands like rock band Bazooka Joe (1994–2020), The Pub Band, and The Quartles, and produced songs for the BNN series Van God Los. On 24 June 2016, Bergman played a "tribute to Catapult" with his band Van Beukenstein at Haringrock in Katwijk aan Zee. On 5 May 2017, they performed at the Bevrijdingsfestival on the Rijnplein. Following Van Prehn's death in 2018, Mol and Hessing currently perform in the acoustic cover band Bacousta.


=== Cat Music ===
In 1977, the members went to Hazerswoude-Rijndijk and formed a recording studio and production company named Cat Music, where they formed Rubberen Robbie, their vehicle for parody and carnival songs, sung in their native Dutch language. They also recorded as The Monotones, scoring a hit in Germany and the Netherlands with the song "Mono" on 15 December 1979. In the 1980s, they formed a new studio in Rijnsaterwoude, where they wrote songs for André Hazes (three of which were recorded for his album Gewoon André) and Leidsche rock band Tower, and specialised in breakdance, hip hop and Italo disco music. They entered a compact disc store owned by Gert van den Bosch, where they listened to illegal records of Italian dance projects and Hi-NRG artists such as Patrick Cowley, Bobby Orlando, Giorgio Moroder and Divine. Inspired by this, they took the records to their studio and used electronic instruments, such as ARP and Moog synthesizers, the Roland TR-808 and the Akai S612, to make "legal" sound-alikes of them. Their new songs were rejected and did not hit the airwaves, so the members used pseudonyms such as "Adams & Fleisner" and "Tony Acardi", forming various fictional bands and artists in which the members were models and dancers hired for cover photograph shoots, and lip-synced to songs sung by Bergman, Hessing and session singers in live performances. These included disco group Fantastique, synth-pop groups Gazuzu and Polysix, electronic trio Digital Emotion, breakbeat group Master Genius, X-Ray Connection, Dr. Groove, Blanc De Blanc, Euro disco group Video Kids, Joanne Daniëls, hip hop groups Comfort & Joy and Party Freaks, and Eurobeat quartet Twiggy Bop. They also released sound effect compilation records, co-wrote and co-produced "Talkin 'Bout Rambo" by Linda Snoeij (under the stage name "L-Vira"), and produced two albums for hard rock band Picture: Every Story Needs Another Picture and Marathon. Many of their dance and Italo disco records were released by Dutch labels such as Dureco Benelux and Boni Records (through their sublabel Break Records), founded by and named after Van den Bosch and Jan van Nieuwkoop in 1982. In 1986, Van den Bosch started making expensive record productions using the money that Cat Music owed him. In the end, Boni Records went bankrupt and Cat Music lost tons of income. It almost cost the members the studio, but they would recover with other projects.
In 1990, Cat Music found it difficult to sell records due to the collapse of the Dutch music industry, so they started producing audiobooks and making ringtones. They also produced the audio comedy series Ome Henk and started writing and producing a lot of records and albums for third parties (including The Smurfs and Telekids), children's DVDs, commercial music, and football songs. In January 2013, Cat Music closed their studio in Rijnsaterwoude and opened as a production company in Voorburg, named Cat Music & More. Cees Bergman moved some of the equipment to a small studio in his house. The company is currently owned by Aart Mol and Geertjan Hessing, with Bergman sharing ownership until his death in 2017.


=== Compilation releases ===
In 1996, Pseudonym released a compilation album of Catapult's singles, The Single Collection. The album also contained three bonus tracks, progressive rock-style "Accident" and "Midsummer Switch", and "White Christmas", which was recorded but went unreleased. In 1999, Rotation released the compilation album Let Your Hair Hang Down, named after Catapult's single of the same name. "Hit The Big Time", "Let Your Hair Hang Down" and "Teeny Bopper Band" were included in the compilation album Cat Nuggets, released by Red Bullet. In 2008, Cat Music released Catapult Complete Collection, Volume 1 and Catapult Complete Collection, Volume 2 on Spotify and Apple Music. In 2020, "Hit The Big Time", "Let It Be True", "Let Your Hair Hang Down", "Performers Prayer", "Teeny Bopper Band", "Nightrake", "Seven Eleven", "Springtime Ballyhoo", "The Stealer", "Back On The Road Again", "Remember September", "See You Back In '86", "Here We Go", "Run For My Wife", "Disco Njet Wodka Da", "Didn't Sleep A Week Last Night", "Spanish Eyes", "The Highways And The By-Ways", "Schoolgirl", "Woman", "Accident", "Midsummer Switch" and "You Better Stay" (from Picture's Every Story Needs Another Picture) were released as part of the compilation album The Golden Years Of Dutch Pop Music by Universal.


=== Personal lives ===
In July 2017, Bergman was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. He died at the age of 65 in his hometown of Leimuiden two months later on 21 September 2017. Van Prehn (born 1950) would pass away the following year in 2018 at the age of 68. Veerhoff currently works as a computer scientist.


== Discography ==


=== Albums ===
Catapult (1974)
Catapult (Grootste hits) (1976)


=== Singles ===
"Hit The Big Time" (1974)
"Let Your Hair Hang Down" (1974)
"Teeny Bopper Band" (1974)
"The Stealer" (1975)
"Seven Eleven" (1975)
"Here We Go" (1976)
"Remember September" (1976)
"Disco Njet Wodka Da" (1977)
"Schoolgirl" (1978)
"Spanish Eyes" (1978)


== References ==


== External links ==
Catapult at Discogs

Orchomenus or Orchomenos (Ancient Greek: Ὀρχομενός) was a town of Phthiotis in ancient Thessaly. In 302 BCE, Cassander planned to transfer to town's population to Phthiotic Thebes but this was prevented by Demetrius Poliorcetes.
Its site is unlocated.


== References ==

The Copper Creek Guard Station was built by the Civilian Conservation Corps in 1935.  It is located in a very remote area, near Black Canyon City, Arizona, United States.  It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1993 for its architecture.  It was designed by the USDA Forest Service in Bungalow/Craftsman style.  It served historically as a camp and as a government office.  The NRHP listing included two contributing buildings on 4 acres (1.6 ha).
In the 1920s and 1930s, Forest Service employees often traveled many miles from local ranger stations to forest work sites. Since the forest road networks were not well developed, getting to a job site meant a long trek, carrying all the equipment needed to perform the fieldwork. This made it impractical for employees to make daily round trips. To facilitate work at remote sites, the Forest Service built guard stations at strategic locations throughout the forest to house fire patrols and project crews.
After World War II, the Forest Service greatly expanded its road network, allowing employees to get to most National Forest areas within a few hours. As a result, guard stations lost their utility. The Forest Service found new uses for some stations, but most were demolished or abandoned.

In the 1990s, historic preservation groups, with the support of Forest Service employees, began pressing National Forest managers to preserve the remaining structures. To finance the preservation effort, the Forest Service started renting its guard stations to the public. It later began renting out many unused fire lookout towers as well.

Its Bungalow style was of the architecture adopted most widely by the USFS architects of the region.


== References ==

Eleven ships and a shore establishment of the Royal Navy have been named HMS Medway, after the River Medway.

HMS Medway (1693), a 60-gun fourth rate launched in 1693, rebuilt in 1718 and hulked in 1740.  She was beached in 1748 and a sheer hulk and was broken up in 1749.
HMS Medway (1742), a 60-gun fourth rate launched in 1742 and scuttled in 1748.
HMS Medway (1755), a 60-gun fourth rate launched in 1755.  She was used as a receiving ship after 1787, and was renamed HMS Arundel in 1802. She was broken up in 1811.
HMS Medway (1756), a 6-gun storeship purchased in 1756.  She was used as a dockyard craft in 1760 and was sold in 1764.
HMS Medway (1812), a 74-gun third rate launched in 1812.  She was used as a convict ship after 1847, and was sold in 1865.
HMS Medway (1876), an iron-hulled screw gunboat launched in 1876 and sold in 1904.
HMS Medway (1916), an M-class destroyer, originally to have been named HMS Redwing.  This was changed to Medora in 1915, and then Medway before her launch in 1916. She was sold in 1921.
HMS Medway (F25), a submarine depot ship launched in 1928 and sunk by U-372 in 1942.
HMS Medway (shore establishment), were submarine base shore establishments in the Mediterranean, listed between 1942 and 1946.  A number of ships were renamed HMS Medway II whilst serving as depot ships for the establishment, including:
HMS Talbot, previously HMS M29 was Medway II between 1944 and 1945.
HMS Bagshot was Medway II between 1945 and 1946.
HMS Medway was the former Landing craft tank HMS LCT 1109.  She was HMS Medway between 1959 and 1970 whilst serving as a submarine depot ship.
HMS Medway (P223) is a River-class patrol vessel, she entered service in March 2019.


== See also ==
HMS Medway Prize
HMS Medway Queen

Indolestes tenuissimus is a species of damselfly in the family Lestidae,
commonly known as the slender reedling. It is found in north-eastern Australia, New Guinea and on Aru.
Its natural habitats are freshwater swamps, ponds and pools. The adult is a medium-sized damselfly (wingspan 50mm, length 45mm) with the thorax being mainly pale blue with darker patches.  The abdomen is mid to dark grey on dorsal surfaces, lighter below, with segment ten forming a distinct pale band. The male superior anal appendages are sinuate. In Australia, the distribution is in suitable habitat in the north-eastern part of the continent from the tip of Cape York Peninsula to central Queensland. The taxon has been assessed in the IUCN Red List as being of least concern, and it appears in the Catalogue of Life.


== Etymology ==
The genus name Indolestes combines the Latin Indus ("India") with Lestes, a genus name derived from the Greek λῃστής (lēstēs, "robber"). Original members of this genus were from India.
The species name tenuissimus is the superlative form of the Latin tenuis ("thin"), meaning "thinnest", referring to its extremely long and slender abdomen.


== Gallery ==


== References ==

Silver Sword or Silversword may refer to:


== Botany ==
Argyroxiphium, a genus of plants in the sunflower family Asteraceae
Silversword alliance, an adaptive radiation of around 30 species in the sunflower family Asteraceae


== Entertainment ==
The Silver Sword, a 1956 novel by Ian Serraillier
Silversword, a 2011 fantasy role-playing game
Silversword (character), a supervillain in the DC Comics universe
The original title of the 1992 video game Wizards & Warriors III: Kuros: Visions of Power
Silversword, a novel by American author Phyllis A. Whitney


== Other uses ==
Silverswords, the athletic teams that represent Chaminade University of Honolulu, Hawaii

The AN/PSQ-20 Enhanced Night Vision Goggle (ENVG) is a third-generation passive monocular night vision device developed for the United States Armed Forces by ITT Exelis. It fuses image-intensifying and thermal-imaging technologies, enabling vision in conditions with very little light. The two methods can be used simultaneously or individually. The ENVG was selected by the US Army's Program Executive Office Soldier (PEO Soldier) as a supporting device for the Future Force Warrior program in 2004, and is intended to replace the older AN/PVS-7 and AN/PVS-14 systems. Although more expensive and heavier than previous models, US Special Forces began using the goggles in 2008 and the US Army's 10th Mountain Division began fielding the AN/PSQ-20 in 2009. Improvements to the goggles have been attempted to make them lighter, as well as enabling the transmission of digital images to and from the battlefield.
In accordance with the Joint Electronics Type Designation System (JETDS), the "AN/PSQ-20" designation represents the 20th design of an Army-Navy electronic device for portable special combination equipment. The JETDS system also now is used to name all Department of Defense electronic systems.


== Development ==
In August 2003, PEO Soldier, the acquisition agency of the US Army, started evaluating designs from ITT Industries and Northrop Grumman for an advanced night vision device that could support the planned Future Force Warrior program. Of the two competing designs, the ITT design which was developed in association with Raytheon, was chosen for development in July 2004 with an initial order for 75 systems. Development testing of the ENVG with the US Army, designated AN/PSQ-20, began by mid-2006, and was completed in March 2007. Operational testing started in June 2007, with low-rate initial production of the device beginning around the same time. ITT were given a five-year contract in April 2005 with a potential value of US$560 million, with the view of replacing the existing AN/PVS-7 and AN/PVS-14.


== Design and features ==
The AN/PSQ-20 Enhanced Night Vision Goggle combines image intensifier (I2 or II) and infra-red (IR, also called thermal imaging) technologies, and is the first night vision device to do so. Before this "fusing", these two technologies could only be used separately. The AN/PSQ-20 allows both methods to be used together or individually, and can be helmet-mounted or hand held. It is roughly the same size as the AN/PVS-14 with similar controls, and is powered by four AA type batteries allowing continuous combined use of II and IR for 7.5 hours. The device can be used for a further 7.5 hours in image intensifier mode.
Classified as a third-generation passive night vision device, the AN/PSQ-20 can provide vision through thermal imaging even in situations where there isn't enough ambient light for the image intensifiers, thus eliminating the need for infra-red illumination (active night vision). It can also see through battlefield obscurants such as smoke and fog. The combined technologies allow better target identification and recognition, thereby improving the soldier's mobility and situational awareness. The center of gravity of the device is close to the face of the wearer, making the helmet-mounted use more comfortable, as well as increasing stability. Aiming lasers can also be integrated with it. However, at a unit cost of US$18,000 and with a weight of almost 2 pounds (0.91 kg), the AN/PSQ-20 is more expensive and heavier than the devices it is intended to replace.


=== FWS-I combination ===
In 2019, the Army plans to begin fielding the Family of Weapon Sights-Individual (FWS-I), an optic that can be mounted on various weapons like the M4 carbine, M16A4 rifle, M249 SAW, M136 AT4, and M141 Bunker Defeat Munition. The FWS-I is designed to work with the ENVG-III by transmitting data from the scope to the goggles, so the soldier can aim the weapon without needing to raise it to their eye. Both systems were brought together under the Rapid Target Acquisition (RTA) capability that combined two separate programs of record with separate devices together to make them interoperable. The goggles are connected through fiber optic wires to a processor on the back of the helmet that wirelessly communicates with the weapon-mounted FWS-I; because of the systems' short range and low power, jamming the wireless connection is not a concern.  Connecting with the ENVG-III also expands the field of vision from a scope's 18-26 degrees to the goggle's 40 degrees. By seeing what the scope sees through the goggles, soldiers during close-quarters combat (CQC) can point their weapons out of defilade positions like over walls and around corners and fire accurately without exposing their head or torso to enemy fire. The US Army first experimented with aiming and shooting weapons behind cover during the Land Warrior program, but it relied on connecting wires between the helmet-mounted display and weapon-mounted thermal sight that could get caught, and early sights were too heavy and bulky.


== Service and improvements ==
The AN/PSQ-20 ENVG was first issued to the US Army in April 2008. The 10th Mountain Division received about 300 units in February 2009, making it the first non-special forces unit to use the device.
PM Soldier Sensors and Lasers, which is part of PEO Soldier, has been working on making the AN/PSQ-20 more rugged by using tougher housing material. Efforts have also been made to make the device lighter, as well as to produce and transmit digital images of the view provided. As a result, a prototype named Digital Enhanced Night Vision Goggle or ENVG (D) was provided to the US Army for evaluation in June 2009, which enables digitally fused images to be exported and imported.
As of July 2015, the US Army had bought about 9,000 ENVG-I and 16,000 ENVG-II units. Beginning in FY 2017, the ENVG-III is expected to begin fielding, with a total of 41,000 to be produced by BAE Systems and DRS Technologies.  Like previous versions, the ENVG-III allows soldiers to choose between night vision, thermal, hybrid, and a hybrid where thermal images show up with an outline, but extends the thermal capacity out to the entire 40-degree field of view rather than just a circle in the middle, and has a sleeker design for the device and battery pack, improved resolution, is lighter at less than 2 pounds (0.91 kg), and is designed to work with the FWS-I.  Plans are to equip 24 ENVGs per platoon, with each costing an estimated US$10,000, cheaper than previous versions due to competition and improved technology.


== See also ==

Night vision
List of military electronics of the United States


== References ==

Nodes of Ranvier is an American metalcore band from Sioux Falls, South Dakota that was signed to Victory Records. The band is described as "one of Sioux Falls' most successful and popular acts ever." They have played with bands including Bleeding Through, Every Time I Die, Bury Your Dead, Caliban, Comeback Kid, Norma Jean, Misery Signals, Extol and more across the U.S.
The band's name refers to the myelin sheath gaps of the nervous system, which are also called nodes of Ranvier.


== History ==
Nodes of Ranvier was formed in September 2000 and 18 members including Nick Thomas, the singer from the Sioux Falls band The Spill Canvas; as well as Brian Anderson, lead singer and guitarist from the band All About Sam have been part of the band. By December 2007, when the band broke up, the only remaining original member was guitarist Jon Parker. The band released its first three albums through record label Facedown Records. In February 2007, they signed with Victory Records. Although Nodes of Ranvier's signing with Victory was touted as being a turning point, their July 2007 release, Defined by Struggle, revealed strains between the band and Victory, who reportedly did not do much to promote them. In mid-December 2007, news sources confirmed that Nodes of Ranvier would perform its last show in the same month and then disband. 
Guitarist Jon Parker, one of the band's founding members, confirmed the announcement to media outlets, ending weeks of fan speculation. Shortly after beginning the disbandment, bassist Brady Murphy had both of his arms amputated after suffering severe burns in an electrical accident. On January 24, 2017, it was announced by Facedown Records that the band would reunite for Facedown Fest 2017, the 20th anniversary of the label, with new members Scott McGuire (bass) and Sheldon Swan (guitar).


== Members ==
Current
Jon Parker - guitars (2000-2008, 2017–present)
Ryan Knutson - drums (2000-2006, 2017–present)
Kyle Benecke - vocals (2006-2008, 2017–present)
Scott McGuire - bass guitar (2017–present)
Sheldon Swan - guitar (2017–present)
Former
Jeremy Schwartz - bass guitar (2000-2001)
Zachary "Add" Poppinga - guitars (2000-2003)
Thomas Hentges - vocals (2000-2005) (Burlap The Wolf King)
Jon Schuld - bass guitar (2001-2004)
Nick Thomas - guitars, vocals (2003-2005) (The Spill Canvas)
Nick Murphy - vocals (2005-2006), bass guitar (2004-2005) (Tennessee Murder Club)
Jake Stefek - guitars (2004-2008)
Terry Taylor - bass guitar (2005-2006) (Hammerlord, ex-The Blinding Light, ex-Suffer, ex-Caligari, ex-The Last Tyrant)
Brady Murphy - bass guitar (ex-After the Sun) (2006-2008)
Josh Ferrie - drums (2006-2008) (Suffer, Tennessee Murder Club, ex-Fall, ex-The Blinding Light, ex-The Thirty Fathom Grave)
Timeline


== Discography ==
Studio albums
Lost Senses, More Innocence (2002)
Nodes of Ranvier (2003)
The Years to Come (2005)
Defined by Struggle (2007)
EPs
Beauty with No Words (2001; Demo)
Innocence Broken/Nodes of Ranvier (2002; Split EP w/ Innocence Broken)


== References ==


== External links ==
Nodes of Ranvier on Myspace

Thomas Metcalf represented Dedham, Massachusetts in the Great and General Court. He also served 10 terms as selectman, beginning in 1678.


== References ==


== Works cited ==
Worthington, Erastus (1827). The History of Dedham: From the Beginning of Its Settlement, in September 1635, to May 1827. Dutton and Wentworth. p. 1. Retrieved August 25, 2019.

The Amsterdam Tournament (Dutch: Amsterdam Toernooi) was a pre-season association football competition, held in Amsterdam, Netherlands. The competition was hosted by Eredivisie club Ajax at the Amsterdam Arena. It was inaugurated in 1975 as the Amsterdam 700 Tournament to celebrate 700 years of history in the city. It was held annually each summer until 1992, when the last edition of the original tournament was played. It returned in 1999 with the backing of the International Event Partnership (IEP). Four teams participate in the competition, played in a league format since 1986.
Since its return, the tournament has used an unusual point scoring system. As with most league competitions, three points are awarded for a win, one for a draw and zero for a loss. An additional point, however, is awarded for each goal scored. The system is designed to reward teams that adopt a more attacking style of play. Each entrant plays two matches, with the winner being the club that finishes at the top of the table. The original competition was held at Amsterdam's Olympic Stadium, where Ajax played its international games until 1996. The Amsterdam Arena, now named the Johan Cruyff Arena, has played host to the event since the return until 2009.
The first winners were Belgian club Molenbeek, who defeated Ajax 5–2 in the final. The hosts are the most successful club in the tournament's history, having lifted the trophy on ten occasions. The club won their first title in 1978 and their most recent success came in 2004. Fellow Dutch side AZ and English club Arsenal are the only other teams to have won the competition more than once. Feyenoord, Ajax's domestic rivals, are among a group of clubs to have won the tournament once, while Belgium has produced the most individual winners, four, one more than England and Netherlands.
AZ and Arsenal are also the most regular guests, having been invited to compete in the tournament on six occasions. As well as being the most successful club, Ajax has finished as runners-up eleven times. Next in the list are two Italian clubs, Internazionale and Roma, who has finished in second place five times between them. Romania is the only national team to have taken part in the tournament. They were invited in 1984 and finished in fourth place as Atlético Mineiro became the first Brazilian club to lift the trophy. In total, teams from 13 countries have participated in the competition. The 2010 edition did not take place due to Ajax's involvement in the qualifying stages of the Champions League.


== Table key ==


== Tournaments ==


== Statistics ==


== See also ==
Copa Amsterdam
Future Cup


== References ==


=== Specific ===


=== General ===


== External links ==
Official website (in Dutch and English)

The 2002 Uber Cup group stage was held at Tianhe Sports Center in Guangzhou, China, from 9 to 13 May 2002.
The group stage was first stage of the tournament where only the two highest-placing teams in each of the two groups advanced to the knockout stage.


== Draw ==
The original draw for the tournament was conducted on 2 April 2002. The 8 teams will be drawn into two groups each containing four teams.


=== Group composition ===


== Group A ==


=== Denmark vs Netherlands ===


=== Indonesia vs Hong Kong ===


=== Denmark vs Hong Kong ===


=== Indonesia vs Netherlands ===


=== Netherlands vs Hong Kong ===


=== Denmark vs Indonesia ===


== Group B ==


=== South Korea vs Japan ===


=== China vs Germany ===


=== China vs South Korea ===


=== Japan vs Germany ===


=== South Korea vs Germany ===


=== China vs Japan ===


== References ==

This is a list of player movements for Super Rugby teams prior to the end of the 2020 Super Rugby season. Departure and arrivals of all players that were included in a Super Rugby squad for 2019 or 2020 are listed here, regardless of when it occurred. Future-dated transfers are only included if confirmed by the player or his agent, his former team or his new team.

Notes

2019 players listed are all players that were named in the initial senior squad, or subsequently included in a 23-man match day squad at any game during the season.
(did not play) denotes that a player did not play at all during one of the two seasons due to injury or non-selection. These players are included to indicate they were contracted to the team. For the 2020 season, Super Rugby was suspended after 7 rounds of matches due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with regional tournaments taking place there after. Players listed as 'did not play' did not feature in any of the 7 rounds of matches played that season.
(short-term) denotes that a player wasn't initially contracted, but came in during the season. This could either be a club rugby player coming in as injury cover, or a player whose contract had expired at another team (typically in the northern hemisphere).
Flags are only shown for players moving to or from another country.
Players may play in several positions, but are listed in only one.


== Bulls ==


== Lions ==


== Sharks ==


== Stormers ==


== See also ==
List of 2019–20 Premiership Rugby transfers
List of 2019–20 Pro14 transfers
List of 2019–20 Top 14 transfers
List of 2019–20 RFU Championship transfers
List of 2019–20 Major League Rugby transfers
SANZAAR
Super Rugby franchise areas


== References ==

Lucien Kroll (13 March 1927 – 1 August 2022) was a Belgian architect. With his wife, Simone Kroll, he founded the Atelier d’Architecture Simone & Lucien Kroll. They are considered to be the founders—as early as 1960—of participatory architecture, a consultative and immersive approach to the design of the built environment. Kroll's idiosyncratic style, closely tied to the participatory design process, was the antithesis of the modernist movement. He completed more than 100 projects⁠.


== Biography ==
Kroll was born in Brussels on 13 March 1927. His father was an engineer and his mother, a nurse.
In 1945, Lucien Kroll enrolled at the Saint-Luc School in Liège, where he befriended Charles Vandenhove. In 1948, they both went on to continue their training at ENSAV de la Cambre in Brussels (today the Faculty of Architecture of the Free University of Brussels). He was also a student at the International Higher Institute of Applied Urbanism.
After obtaining his degree in architecture at La Cambre in 1951, Kroll worked with architect Charles Vandenhove for several years.
In 1956, Kroll met Simone Pelosse, the "ceramist of Old Lyon", at an exhibition in Brussels. Born in Lyon, trained at the School of Arts et Métiers de Paris, Simone Pelosse was, at that time, already established as a recognized ceramist. She is also politically active in the preservation of her neighborhood in the historic district of Lyon. Kroll visited her several times in Lyon before declaring his love. They became design partners and married in 1965.
Together, they founded the Atelier d'architecture Simone & Lucien Kroll, which was very active in the 1960s and 1990s. During these years Lucien Kroll and his wife fought particularly hard against their designated enemy: modernism and its functionalist deviations. Kroll often referred to himself as an « anarchitect » because of his stated desire to embrace the complexities and contradictions of the communities his architecture served, rather than to serve the plans of governmental or economic powers. Kroll's architectural style involved the use of vernacular building materials and a juxtaposition of forms that gives rise to built environments that look more like they are the product of the incremental development of a village than that of a master-planned city.
Kroll's success was followed by a long period where his architecture was decidedly out of fashion. Retrospectives organized in Nantes (2013), Paris (2015) and Brussels (2016) have helped to rekindle interest in their work.


== Philosophy of architecture ==
Critical of the authoritarian relationship between architect and user, Kroll developed a unique approach to the practice of architecture. Throughout his career, Kroll opposed the industrialization of housing and promoted an architecture that is adapted as closely as possible to the self-expressed needs of the inhabitants, even when there were contradictions and difficulties of communication. He is thus against "disciplinary alignment" and sought to liberate architecture by means of consultative, immersive and inter-disciplinary methods. The architecture produced can therefore only be collective and participatory. This participatory concept focuses on the human in the projects and casts the architect not as decision-maker, but as a mediator. This involved direct contacts with the future users of the project with a view to determining their wants and concerns. In applying the methods of participatory architecture, called "incrementalism" by Kroll, architects are to consult, bring together, immerse themselves in neighborhoods and rely on the expertise of psychologists, sociologists, ethnologists and pedagogues.


== Projects ==


=== The Oury House ===

One of his first works is the Oury house, a single-family dwelling located at 137 Voie de Liège in Embourg. It was built between 1962 and 1963 for Mr. Oury, a former wood importer. Wood was also the material of choice for the house, but brick and concrete were used for the load-bearing walls, which form four regular spans. The L-shaped plan of the house opens to the south, while the staircase and the corridors which distribute the rooms are to the north. The balcony, as well as the overhanging roof, help to prevent overheating in the summer months.


=== La Mémé ===

Kroll's most famous work is La Mémé—the building complex for the Medical Faculty at the University of Louvain, Belgium, built between 1970 and 1976. This project was born in the particular socio-political context of tensions between the Flemish- and French-speaking communities, which ultimately required the French-speaking university to leave Leuven. The relocated school of medicine was to be based in Woluwe-Saint-Lambert in Brussels. At the same time, the university felt the impact of the student uprisings of 1968, notably when the student body insisted that they be allowed to choose the architect for the Woluwe-Saint-Lambert campus. They chose Atelier Kroll.
True to his philosophy, Kroll included the students (and others, including construction workers) in the development of the project, and, as always, based his architecture on listening to and taking their views into account. For this program, which covers nearly 4 hectares, the Kroll Atelier asked the landscape architect, Louis Le Roy, to develop the site, which is entirely pedestrian.
The Mémé itself is highly idiosyncratic, involving a vast number of building materials (slate, brique, wood) and a complex, almost fragmented, facade. The buildings "aroused widespread controversy in the early 1970s (and even today) due to its their fragmented and improvisational appearance—the result of a deliberate participatory design process—in stark contrast to the adjacent massive and repetitive hospital, the embodiment of a centralized bureaucracy."


=== ZUP Perseigne ===
In 1978, Kroll was hired by the city government of Alençon, a French city in Normandy with a base population of 33,000 people. Kroll was to fill the role of consulting architect for the restructuring and renewal of the public spaces in the ZUP of Perseigne. ZUP is the French acronym for Priority Urbanisation Zone. The Perseigne ZUP was a very large, low income housing development built over the 1963–1969 period with units designed to house 6,500 inhabitants in 2300 dwellings. The Perseigne development was typical of many built during France's post-War housing construction drive.The inhabitants of the ZUP were initially rural families who had moved to the city and, later, immigrants from such countries as Algeria, Morocco, Portugal, Spain and Turkey. The site of the ZUP was adjacent to a household appliances factory (Moulinex) and employment tended to be either in blue collar jobs or in low paid office work.
Prior to Kroll's involvement in the project the Brazilian sociologist, Arlindo Stefani spent 4 months embedded in the ZUP and helping its inhabitants to formulate their ideas on how to improve it. Later the urbanist, Jean-Jacques Argenson, who both lived and worked in the ZUP, continued consultations with inhabitants. This proved to be an essential input for Kroll, who was only present on the site two times per month. These consultations resulted in landscapes (planted buttes) that eased problems of speeding cars and parking lots designed to respect the principle of "two trees for one car". Kroll and others also rethought the pre-existing design for a middle school, siting it centrally within the ZUP (not in a separate site for schools), a change that enhanced foot traffic through the ZUP. Along with a new community center, the school also helped to form a central plaza where the weekly farmers' market was held. These changes helped to establish a community center for the ZUP. Kroll also built extensions on top of and next to existing buildings that drew inspiration from the design of regional dwellings.


== Selected works ==


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Muriel Emmanuel, Contemporary Architects. New York: St. Martin's Press, 1980.

Tic-tac-toe is a comedy by multi-awarded Filipino poet and playwright Peter Solis Nery, who won first prize at the 2016 Palanca Awards for this one-act play. It is the most frequently produced - and touted as the funniest - English-language play in Iloilo City in the new millennium.


== Plot summary ==
Tic-tac-toe is about a forward-thinking Ilonggo playwright who produces a "sexually-charged play" for a local theater. As the play goes to rehearsals, it is met with criticism and demands for rewrites: first, from the director; then, from the producer; and finally, from the very conservative consultant and test audience. Albeit unhappy about changing a word in his play, the playwright goes through the motion of revising the play to "satisfy" the demands of the "theatre gods" — with hilarious and hysterical results. Although the playwright passionately argues for modernism in the theater in the course of the play, this play within a play ends with a literal "tic-tac-toe."


== Performances ==
Iloilo Prima Galaw, an Ilonggo theater group, has performed Nery's Tic-tac-toe in various productions, staging it at the Pasinaya Arts Festival at the Cultural Center of the Philippines on February 4, 2018; at Nery's shows in Iloilo's Troi Oi Restaurant on January 27 and February 14, 2018; at the CAP Auditorium in Iloilo City on March 12 and 13, 2018; at the 7th Kuris Theatre Festival in Bacolod City on February 19, 2020 and again at the CAP Auditorium in Iloilo City as part of Commedia dell'Arte on February 27 and 28, 2020.


== Publication ==
Tic-tac-toe was published in Funny, Sad, and Dangerous: Three Award-winning Short Plays (KDP: 2019) alongside two other award-winning Nery plays: Gladiolas [sic] and The Wide Ionian Sea.


== References ==

Paolo Pellegrin (born March 11, 1964) is a photojournalist. He was born in Rome, Italy, into a family of architects. He is a member of the Magnum Photos agency and has won ten World Press Photo awards.


== Biography ==

Pellegrin studied architecture at L'Università la Sapienza, in Rome, and after three years he decided to change career directions and left to study photography at Istituto Italiano di Fotografia in Rome, from 1986 to 1987. During these years, he met the Italian photographer Enzo Ragazzini, who became his mentor.
In 1992 Pellegrin began working on personal projects, on subjects such as the Romani people in Italy and Bosnia and made several trips to the Balkans after Albania opened its borders. Through Christian Caujolle, he met Grazia Neri, who represented him in Italy. Between 1994 and 1995, he started working on a project about children in post-war Bosnia and travelled in Italy, Romania, Mexico, Uganda, Zimbabwe, and Kenya for a project on HIV/AIDS. In 1995 he won his first World Press Photo award for his work on AIDS in Uganda.
In 1997 Pellegrin published his first book, Bambini, on his work about children in Bosnia, Uganda and Romania and was awarded the City of Gijòn International Prize of Photojournalism for his work on children in post-war Bosnia. In 1998 he worked on a project for Médecins Sans Frontières, which became a book, Cambodia, and a traveling exhibition. He won a World Press Photo award for his work in Cambodia. 
Between 1999 and 2000 Pellegrin travelled frequently between Kosovo, Albania, Macedonia, and Serbia during the war, creating an in-depth reportage on the conflict and its aftermath. He won a World Press Photo for his coverage of the conflict in Kosovo.
In 2001 Pellegrin became a Magnum Photos nominee and won a World Press Photo award for his work on anti-terrorism in Algeria. During the same year, he won the Leica Medal of Excellence for his work in the Balkans. He began to travel extensively, covering news events mainly in the Middle East and Africa. In 2002 he published the book Kosovo 1999-2000: The Flight of Reason and won the German Hansel Mieth Prize for a story in Bosnia. In 2003 he travelled to cover the US-led invasion of Iraq. In 2004 he began travelling to Darfur to cover humanitarian crisis and won the Olivier Rebbot prize by the Overseas Press Club, USA, for his coverage of Darfur. He also won a World Press Photo award for his reportage on Yasser Arafat’s funeral. With Thomas Dworzak, Alex Majoli and Ilkka Uimonen, created Off Broadway, a traveling multi-media project. He became a Magnum Photos full member in 2005. In the same year he covered the aftermath of the tsunami and hurricane Katrina and won two World Press Photo awards, one for his work on the funeral of Pope John Paul II, and another for the reportage on the backstage of fashion shows in New York City.
In 2006 Pellegrin travelled to Lebanon to cover the war, where he was injured in Tyre. He won a World Press Photo award for his work in Lebanon and the W. Eugene Smith Grant in Humanistic Photography for his long-term project on Islam. In 2007 he was awarded the Robert Capa Gold medal by the Overseas Press Club for his work on the war in Lebanon and won the Leica European Publishers Award for Photography, as the result of which his As I Was Dying was published in seven languages. 
In 2013 Pellegrin won his tenth World Press Photo Award.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Taub, Ben (May 23, 2022). "In search of the sublime : what the photographer Paolo Pellegrin sees in the dark". Profiles. The New Yorker. Vol. 98, no. 13. pp. 40–49.


== External links ==
Official website

All Saints' Anglican Church is a closed Anglican church in the town of Derrinallum, Victoria, Australia. The church, which replaced an earlier church destroyed by a bushfire in 1944, was sold in 2017, and is now a private residence. The church is notable as the original location of the heritage-listed Fairbairn Windows.


== History ==
In 1925, an earlier Anglican church existed within the town, but was destroyed, along with much of the town, by a bushfire in 1944. Few records of this early church exist. A ball was held in the Mechanics Institute in order to raise funds for the church on November 12 1946, with over 500 people in attendance.
The foundation stone for the current church building was laid on the 18th August 1950 by the Right Reverend W. H. Johnson of Ballarat. The current church building was opened on 3 July 1953 by Right Reverend W. H. Johnson, assisted by Archdeacon Richards, and named "St James' Anglican Church". It was built by an unknown architect, using clinker brick, and in a small-scale interpretation of the Gothic style.
It is unclear when the church closed, but the property was sold in 2017 and has now been turned into a private residence.


=== Fairbairn stained glass windows ===
The church originally contained two stained glass windows, dedicated in memoriam of James Fairbairn, a World War 1 veteran and politician who used to live at Mount Elephant homestead, who was killed in the 1940 Canberra air disaster. The windows were commissioned by James' widow, "Peggy" Fairbairn. The windows were designed by Geoffrey Clarke. Geoffrey Clarke alongside Lawrence Lee and Keith New were among a team who designed the windows for the reconstruction of Coventry Cathedral in England. The windows employ a sombre blue, grey and white pallette, and these are reputedly two known projects of Geoffrey Clarke in Australia. Whilst the windows themselves are heritage listed, the church itself is not.

In 2016, Geelong Grammar School, where James Fairbairn went to boarding school, acquired the windows with the permission of the Bishop-in-council of the Anglican Diocese of Ballarat. They now flank either side of the staircase beneath the school's clock tower.


== References ==

The 1977 UCI Track Cycling World Championships were the World Championship for track cycling. They took place in San Cristóbal, Venezuela in 1977. Twelve events were contested, 10 for men (3 for professionals, 7 for amateurs) and 2 for women.
In the same period, the 1977 UCI Road World Championships were also organized in San Cristóbal.


== Medal summary ==


== Medal table ==


== See also ==
1977 UCI Road World Championships


== References ==

With 12,500 residents, New York University has the 7th largest university housing system in the United States, the largest among private schools.


== Description ==
Residence halls are unique in that many are converted apartment complexes or old hotels. Most freshman residence halls are in the Washington Square area. Many of the upperclassmen halls are in the Union Square area. Until the Spring 2005 semester, NYU used a lottery system to determine eligibility for residence hall preference. Under this system, a student received one point for every semester they had lived in campus housing. Freshmen are freed from the lottery system and are by tradition placed in the halls closest to the main campus area. Therefore, historically, most of the students who lived in halls found far from Washington Square were sophomores. However, beginning in the fall 2006 semester, sophomores received priority housing, giving them first choice of residence halls. The purpose of this initiative was to keep the sophomore class together in the Union Square area. As a result, that year's junior class (class of 2008) and senior class (class of 2007) never benefited from having first choice, either as seniors under the old system or sophomores under the new system. The university operates its own transit system to transport its students, by bus or trolley, to campus. Undergraduate students were guaranteed housing during their enrollment at NYU if they declared a need on their admissions applications.
Twenty-one buildings comprise NYU's undergraduate housing system. In general, NYU residence halls receive favorable ratings, and some are opulent. Many rooms are spacious and contain amenities considered rare for individual college residence hall rooms, such as kitchens and living rooms/common areas. All residence halls are staffed by 24-hour security staff, contain multiple resident assistants (RAs), and several halls contain faculty in residence. Unlike many other universities, NYU rooms all have their own bathrooms and thus no common bathrooms exist. Many residence halls have their own dining hall, and the university has meal choices to suit various diets. Almost all the residence halls have a laundry room that is open to resident students 24 hours a day. The price of using these facilities varies from hall to hall; as some halls are leased, NYU is unable to control the laundry prices.
All the residence halls are governed by the Inter-Residence Hall Council (IRHC), an umbrella student council organization. Each hall elects student representatives to the IRHC, and those representatives meet with one another to form committees and vote on an executive board. The goal of this group is to create programs for university students and to act as a link to university administration.


=== Recent hall construction ===
In November 2005, NYU announced plans to build a 26-floor, 190,000-square-foot (18,000 m2) residence hall on East 12th Street. The residence hall is expected to accommodate about 700 undergraduates and contain a host of other student facilities. It is to be the tallest building in the East Village. The plans caused anger among East Village and other New York City residents, as the new building would be built over the old St. Ann's Church. 12th street dorm is currently in use as a freshman dorm as of August 2009. It is located between 3rd and 4th avenues, close to the Coral, Alumni, and 3rd North dorms. A small piece of the church's facade remains standing.
NYU announced in February 2008 that it had purchased a high-end apartment building to use as a residence hall. The building was already under construction for some time, originally intended for overseas investors. This building, Gramercy Green—located at 23rd Street and 3rd Avenue—is in the heart of Gramercy and near to Madison Square Park. The rooms inside the building were partitioned to maximize the number of students. The building housed over 900 in its first year. In Spring 2009, Gramercy Green opened up a massive sub-cellar, which includes a fully functioning gym, a bike room, multiple television lounges, multiple study lounges, and a game room.


== Relations with local residents ==
There has been friction between the residents of the East Village and NYU.  Amongst brownstones and historic buildings, the school has built many large residence halls.  NYU's destruction or purchase of many historic buildings (such as the Peter Cooper post office or St. Ann's Church, a rusticated-stone structure with a Romanesque tower that dated to 1847) have made it symbolic of change that many long-time residents fear is destroying what made the neighborhood interesting and attractive.


== Undergraduate residence halls ==
There are currently 23 buildings in New York University's undergraduate housing system. Many are home to special interest "explorations" communities.


=== First-year halls ===

Brittany Hall is a 17-story pre-war gothic high rise located at 55 East 10th Street at the corner of 10th and Broadway. The building was once a hotel and is now home to 576 freshman and 14 RAs. Comedy troupe the State was founded in Brittany in 1988.
Special Interest Communities
Featuring All Musical Endeavors
Founders Hall is the newest addition to the system. It first opened for the Fall 2009 semester. It is located at 120 East 12th Street, houses over 700 students, and is known for its clean facilities, large windows, and extra large rooms. It is home to "The Meaning of Food", "NYU C.O.R.P.S.", "Global Citizen", and "Media Revolution" Explorations floors.
Goddard Hall was a small first-year hall located on 79 Washington Square East. This hall was regularly shown on NYU campus tours. Goddard housed 212 students and six RAs.  In the fall of 2007, it became a "residential college". In 2022, Goddard Hall closed as a residence hall.
Lipton Hall Formerly a law school residence, Lipton was one of the university's first residence halls. It is now exclusively for freshmen like most of the residence halls closest to the park. It is located at 33 Washington Square West. Lipton holds 700 students and 15 RAs. Lipton Hall was formerly known as Hayden Hall before its name was changed in June 2016.
Rubin Hall is located at 35 Fifth Avenue, across from Church of the Ascension (New York). Prior to its purchase by NYU in the 1960s, the building was the Grosvenor Hotel. It houses 688 students and 15 RAs. During the 2023-2024 academic year, the hall underwent complete renovation, adding air conditioning to each dorm and making the building more environmentally friendly.
Third Avenue North is the largest first-year residence hall at NYU and one of the largest in the United States, housing 952 freshmen. "Third North" is located at 75 Third Avenue (between 11th and 12th streets) and is split into three towers. Third North has 29 RAs.
Weinstein Hall is the only pre-1980 residence hall that was built as a residence hall specifically for NYU students. It is located at 5-11 University Place.  This freshman residence hall has a two level dining hall; the upper level's food court is known as "Upstein" and is adjacent to the kosher eatery. The lower level is known as "Downstein". Weinstein houses 554 students and 30 RAs. Weinstein is notable for being the dorm in which Rick Rubin and Russell Simmons founded Def Jam Records.


=== Mixed freshman/upperclassman halls ===
Clark Street is an 11-story building located at 55 Clark Street in Brooklyn, housing over 400 students in exclusively traditional-style suites. The residence is contained in a building shared with Hotel St. George and operated by EHS, meaning that the residence houses students from universities around New York City. Due to the nature of the arrangement, Clark St. has many amenities that other Residence's at NYU lack, such as in-room TV's, a private gym, a private spa, etc.
Othmer Hall is an 18-story building located at 101 Johnson Street in Brooklyn, housing over 400 students in both traditional and apartment-style suites. The residence includes student lounges and study rooms on every floor with laundry facilities and vending machines located in its basement. The residence hall was acquired by NYU when it merged with Polytechnic University to form the NYU Tandon School of Engineering in 2015. Othmer Hall stands within the MetroTech Center, and directly adjoins the academic buildings that make up NYU Tandon, including Rogers Hall which holds Othmers primary dining hall: the Jasper Kane Café.
University Hall is located in Union Square at 110 East 14th Street and was converted in the 2005-06 school year to all freshmen, and was then converted back to upperclassmen in fall 2009. For the 2012-2013 school year, it housed freshmen once more due to massive renovations at Brittany Hall. There was a small campus general store in the building, which in the Spring of 2006 was converted to a Dunkin' Donuts. "U-Hall" had a dining hall which was closed in 2005. The primary dining hall in U-Hall is currently operating in the general store located in "The Commons". University Hall holds 603 students and 14 RAs.


=== Upperclassman halls ===

Alumni Hall is located at 33 Third Avenue and houses exclusively single rooms, the only residence hall in the NYU system to do so. Alumni Hall is home to 452 residents and 12 Resident Assistants. Alumni staff and hall council are paired with the 7th Street dorm (this arrangement is commonly called the "7-A Partnership").
Broome Street is located at 400 Broome Street and houses many sophomores and juniors. In whole, Broome holds 353 students and nine RAs. In the fall of 2007, it became a "residential college".
Carlyle Court is located at 25 Union Square West. It houses 736 students and 15 RAs - mostly sophomores.
Coral Towers is located at 129 Third Avenue. It, along with Carlyle Court, was once notable for having balconies to which the students no longer have access due to safety concerns. Coral holds 410 students and 13 RAs.
Gramercy Green is one of the newest residence halls in the system, located on the northeast corner of 23rd Street and 3rd Avenue (entrance on 3rd). Gramercy Green features a new addition to the University's residence halls: it has two Chaplains in Residence. Gramercy Green is a converted luxury condo building, which is why the residence boasts numerous amenities not held in traditional 'college dorms.' These amenities include a private gym, granite countertops, marble bathroom fixtures and floor to ceiling windows. It, however, is one of the furthest dorms from campus.
Greenwich Hotel is largely a sophomore residence hall and is located at 636 Greenwich Street.  Greenwich holds 314 students and seven RAs.
Lafayette Hall is located at 80 Lafayette Street. "Laf" is the largest residence hall at NYU, housing 1000+ students. Most of NYU Greek's Life have 'houses' in the penthouse floors of this residence hall.
Palladium Hall is located at 140 East 14th Street and houses upperclassmen and Stern's full-time MBA students. It contains a dining area and an athletic center, which is open to the general NYU community. Palladium Hall is named after the night club, The Palladium, owned by Steve Rubell and Ian Schrager (both former owners of Studio 54) and formerly known as the Academy of Music. NYU purchased the land and built the Palladium Residence Hall in 2001. Palladium holds over 900 students with 22 RAs.
Second Street is a small residence hall with a large percentage of its residents being returning students. It is located at 1 East Second Street. Second Street has 282 residents and eight RAs.
Seventh Street is a small residence hall that houses mostly juniors and seniors. Its address is 40 East Seventh Street. It is known as the Green Dorm. Seventh Street is the smallest hall on campus, housing 82 students and two RAs, and so shares its staff and hall council with nearby Alumni Hall in what is commonly called the "7-A Partnership".
13th Street is located at 47 West 13th Street. It has four RAs and 180 residents.  As of Fall 2010, 13th street became the Senior House, a residence hall open to only seniors.


== Formerly used as residence halls ==
Cliff Street was located at 15 Cliff Street and was one of two undergraduate residence halls in the Financial District. Cliff Street housed 321 residents and six RAs. The contract NYU had with the landlord of Cliff Street ended in May 2008 and the building is no longer used by NYU.
Water Street formerly known as NYU at the Seaport, was an upperclassmen residence hall. Despite its distance from campus, many students favored it for the size of the rooms. With 1181 residents and 28 RAs, Water Street was the largest residence hall on campus. However, since the hall was leased and not owned by NYU, the university closed the hall in May 2009 and replaced the beds with a new residence hall recently constructed on East 12th Street (Founders Hall).


== Graduate halls ==
D'Agostino Hall is located at 110 West Third St.  "D'Ag" is one of three residence halls for law school students.
130 MacDougal Street is a two building law school residence also known as the "Alcott Houses".  Students are not provided with cable, telephone, or internet services.
Hayden Hall is located at 240 Mercer Street. Formerly known as "240 Mercer", the building was renamed after the original Hayden Hall located on Washington Square West was renamed Lipton Hall in 2016. It is the largest of the five residence halls for law school students.


== Notable residents ==
Brittany Hall

Adam Sandler
Dave Attell
Kristen Johnston
The State
Tabitha Soren
Tim Herlihy
Carlyle Court

Sam Sheffler
Goddard Hall

Donald Glover
Rubin Hall

Alec Baldwin
Chris Columbus
Haley Joel Osment
Sarah Silverman
Third Avenue North

Lady Gaga
Stephanie Hsu
Dylan and Cole Sprouse
Weinstein Hall

Adam Savage
Bill de Blasio
Def Jam Recordings
George Drakoulias
Wayne Federman
Philip Seymour Hoffman
Rick Rubin
John Waters
Andrew Watt


== References ==

Strevens is an English surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Ben Strevens (born 1980), English footballer and manager
John Strevens (1902–1990), English artist
Leofranc Holford-Strevens (born 1946), English scholar


== See also ==
Stevens (surname)

Artuir mac Áedáin or Artúr mac Áedán was son of Áedán mac Gabráin and a prince of Dál Riata in the 6th century. Artuir was probably a war leader fighting Picts at the northern and eastern borders of the kingdom. He and his brother Eochaid Find were killed at the battle of Miathi around 580–596 AD.


== History ==
Artuir is mentioned in three medieval sources: in Adomnan's Life of St. Columba, written c. 700; in the genealogical section of The History of the Men of Scotland, originally compiled in the seventh century; and his death is also mentioned in the Annals of Tigernach, which date from around 1088.
His name, Artuir, derived from Arthur, is Brittonic, probably related to a Welsh mother. Maithgemma, daughter of Aedan, was said to be the niece of a Brittonic king. Aedan also had two grandsons and a great-grandson with Brittonic names.
The Life of St. Columba mentions Artuir in a chapter between Aedan and Columba, where the saint predicts that Aedan's younger son, Eochaid Buide, will succeed instead of Aedan's chosen sons. Columba then predicts the deaths of Artuir, Eochaid Find, and Domangart while fighting their father's battles. Adomnan adds " Artuir and Echoid Find were slain a little while later, in the battle of Miathi mentioned above. Domangart was killed in a rout of battle in England", illustrating the fulfillment of Columba's prophecy. In the previous chapter, Adomnan portrayed Columba praying for Aedan's victory over the Miathi, indicating that the battle occurred before Columba's death in 596–597.


== References ==


== External links ==
Adamnan: Life of St. Columba [1].
Senchus Fer n-Alban. The History of the Men of Scotland [2]

Mustapha Baba Shehuri ((); born 4 July 1961) is a Nigerian politician who served as the federal minister of state for Agriculture and Rural Development from 2019 to 2023. He previously served as the minister of State for Power, Works and Housing from 2015 to 2019.


== Background ==
Mustapha Baba Shehuri attended the Gamboru primary school in Maiduguri Borno state from 1972 to  1978. He later proceed to Government Secondary School in Damagun, Borno state from 1978 to 1983. He graduated from the University of Maiduguri in 2002 with advanced diploma in public administration. In sociology and anthropology from the same university.


== Political career ==
Mustapha Baba Shehuri served as a Councilor representing the Lamisula/Jabbamari Ward of Maiduguri Metropolitan under the old non-party electoral system from 1996 to 1997.
Mustapha Baba Shehuri also served as Council Chairman of Maiduguri Metropolitan Council under the defunct Grassroots Democratic Movement (GDM) from 1997 to 1998. Between 1999 and 2003, Hon. Shehuri was a member of the State House of Assembly representing the Maiduguri Metropolitan on the platform of the defunct of All Peoples' Party (APP). He was a member of the House of Representatives from 2003 to 2007; and got re-elected between 2007 - 2012, representing the Maiduguri Metropolitan Federal Constituency on the platform of the defunct ANPP. He was the Honourable Minister of State for Power, Works and Housing from 2015 to May 2019 and currently serving as the Honourable Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development.


== Awards and honours ==
In May 2023, he conferred the National Honour of Commander of the Order of the Niger by President Muhammadu Buhari.


== References ==

Cattle Raiders is a 1938 American Western film directed by Sam Nelson and written by Joseph F. Poland and Ed Earl Repp. The film stars Charles Starrett, Donald Grayson, Iris Meredith, Dick Curtis, Joseph Allen and Edward LeSaint. The film was released on February 12, 1938, by Columbia Pictures.


== Plot ==
Tom returns, but finds out that he is now wanted, since his gun was found in a murder scene. Tom gets into a fight with Munro which he suspects his the murderer and collects a bullet from him, which he matches to the bullet used in the murder, however in the trial, the bullet evidence is ignored.


== Cast ==
Charles Starrett as Tom Reynolds
Donald Grayson as Slim Grayson
Iris Meredith as Nancy Grayson
Dick Curtis as Ed Munro
Joseph Allen as Steve Reynolds
Edward LeSaint as John Reynolds
Edmund Cobb as Burke
George Chesebro as Brand
Edward Coxen as Doc Connors
Steve Clark as Hank
Art Mix as Keno
Clem Horton as Slash


== References ==


== External links ==
Cattle Raiders at IMDb

The 2014–15 Harvard Crimson men's basketball team represented Harvard University during the 2014–15 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Crimson, led by eighth year head coach Tommy Amaker, played their home games at Lavietes Pavilion and were members of the Ivy League. They finished the season 22–8, 11–3 in Ivy League play to share to the regular season Ivy League title with Yale. They earned the Ivy League's automatic bid to the NCAA tournament after defeating Yale in a One-game playoff, the ninth one-game playoff tie breaker in Ivy League history. In the NCAA Tournament, the Crimson lost to North Carolina in the second round.


== Recruits ==


=== Class of 2014 ===


=== Class of 2015 ===


== Roster ==


== Preseason ==
Harvard was again the unanimous preseason top team in the Ivy League media poll. The team entered the season ranked 25th in the AP Poll.


== Schedule ==
In the penultimate game of the regular season on March 6, the team lost to Yale, falling behind them by a game in the standings with one game to play. However, the teams finished the season tied for the Ivy League title and Harvard won the one-game playoff on March 14 to earn the conference's automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. The 2014–15 team was the first Ivy League team to make a fifth consecutive postseason appearance since the 2001–02 Princeton Tigers men's basketball team completed a seven-year run for Princeton. They were the third Ivy team to make four consecutive  NCAA basketball tournament appearances, a feat last accomplished by the 1991–92 Princeton Tigers men's basketball team. On March 19 in the 2015 NCAA tournament the team overcame a 16-point second half deficit against fourth-seeded North Carolina to take the lead before surrendering it in the final minute of play.

Source: 


== Honors ==
Wesley Saunders was First Team All-Ivy selection, while Siyani Chambers and Steve Moundou-Missi were second team selections. Moundou-Missi was the Conference Defensive Player of the Year. Saunders joined Don Flemming as the only players to have earned three consecutive first team all-league selections. Saunders was a 2014–15 Men's All-District I Team selection by the  U.S. Basketball Writers Association.


== Rankings ==


== References ==

Cuthwine (c. 565–593) was a member of the House of Wessex and the son of King Ceawlin of Wessex.
Cuthwine may also refer to:

Cuthwine of Dunwich (8th century), Bishop of Dunwich
Cuthwine of Leicester (died c. 691), Bishop of Leicester

Savoyard Centre (1900), also known as State Savings Bank, is an office building at 151 West Fort Street in Downtown Detroit, Michigan. It was designated as a Michigan State Historic Site in 1981 and listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982. Another historic marker erected November 13, 1964, also notes that the site was previously occupied by Fort Lernoult until July 11, 1796, when, in compliance with the terms of the Treaty of Paris ending the American Revolutionary War, British troops had evacuated their last post in United States territory.


== History ==

The State Savings Bank was organized in 1883, and purchased the site at the corner of Fort and Shelby in 1898, by which time it was the largest bank in Detroit. They commissioned the prominent architect Stanford White to design the Neo-Classical bank. The interior and exterior walls are white marble. The main entrance is in a recessed portico and framed by two Ionic columns 28 ft (8.5 m) tall and weighing 56,000 lb (25,000 kg). Above the entry is a cartouche bearing the Michigan Coat of Arms flanked by two figures representing Industry and Commerce.
In 1907, the State Savings Bank merged with the People's Savings Bank to form the People's State Bank, requiring a larger building. The original structure faced Fort Street, but extended only 138 ft (42 m) in depth. In 1914, the bank hired Donaldson and Meier to design an addition to the building. The resulting structure doubled the original size by extending the building to Congress Street. The addition is nearly indistinguishable from the original.
The two-story main banking room in the interior is surrounded by arched colonnades. The colonnades are divided by Ionic pilasters. The second floor occupies the upper portions of the arches and frosted glass allows light to pass between the spaces. The coffered ceiling is molded plaster and is slightly more ornate in the 1898 portion of the building. The main vault stood at the rear of the original structure and the 1914 addition placed it in the middle of the banking floor. In the archway over the Congress Street entry is a mural by American artist Thomas Wilmer Dewing. It is an allegorical representation of the City of Detroit flanked by Commerce and Agriculture. The painting was completed in 1900 and placed in its present position after the structure was expanded in 1914.
The bank again merged in 1927 to become the Peoples Wayne County Bank, but disappeared in the financial failures of the Great Depression. Afterward, the headquarters of Edsel Ford's Manufacturer's National Bank occupied the building. In the 1960s, a pedestrian bridge was constructed across Shelby Street to connect the two buildings then occupied by Manufacturer's Bank. The building was continuously used as a bank until the 1980s, when it became an office supply showroom.
In August 2013, the building was jeopardized as owners proposed demolition and converting the property to a surface parking lot. Bedrock Real Estate Services, a company owned by local businessman Dan Gilbert added the structure to its portfolio of 65 Detroit properties December 13, 2014. The company did not disclose the purchase price or possible plans, however one rumored use could be an auto museum.
The current name is taken from the nearby Savoyard Creek, named by early settlers who arrived in the area from Savoy. The creek began at the current site of Lafayette Park flowed parallel to Congress Street to the foot of Fourth Street where it emptied into the Detroit River.  Over time, the creek became an open sewer until complaints from nearby residents caused the city to enclose and incorporate it into the sewer system in 1836. Julian Scott Department Store was located at 151 West Fort Street in downtown Detroit, Michigan.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Meyer, Katherine Mattingly and Martin C.P. McElroy with Introduction by W. Hawkins Ferry, Hon A.I.A. (1980). Detroit Architecture A.I.A. Guide Revised Edition. Wayne State University Press. ISBN 0-8143-1651-4.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
Sobocinski, Melanie Grunow (2005). Detroit and Rome: building on the past. Regents of the University of Michigan. ISBN 0-933691-09-2.

Kevin Halabaku (born 29 November 2001) is a professional footballer who plays as a winger for Maltese club Hibernians. Born in Switzerland, he is a youth international for Kosovo.


== Club career ==
Halabaku joined the youth academy of Sion at the age of 13. On 5 February 2021, he signed his first professional contract with the club until 2025. He made his senior and professional debut with Sion in a 2–0 Swiss Super League loss to Servette on 27 August 2022.
On 15 February 2024, Halabaku was loaned by Schaffhausen. He returned to Sion on 17 June 2024.


== International career ==
Born in Switzerland, Halabaku is of Kosovan descent. He played for the Kosovo U19s in 2019.


== References ==


== External links ==
Kevin Halabaku at Soccerway
SFL Profile

Tarmo Tamm (born 27 July 1966) is an Estonian wood industry entrepreneur and a member of the XV Riigikogu.
In the 2023 Riigikogu elections, he was elected to the Riigikogu on the list of the Estonian 200 political party, collecting 876 votes from the 6th constituency in Lääne-Viru County.


== Biography ==
Tamm was born in Tallinn. He graduated from the Kirov Agricultural Academy in 1991 with a degree in hunting biology and from the Estonian Business School international business management programme in 1996.
1991–1995 – Deputy Director of the Mahtra State Hunting Area. 
1997–2000 – member of the board of AS Estimpeks Puit.
2000–2008 – member of the board of OÜ TreTimber (now Thermory).
2000–2003 – shareholder and member of the board of OÜ Peetri Puit. 
He also represented the non-profit organization Käsmu Majaka Sadam until May 8, 2023, and is a shareholder and board member of the company Arcwood.
From 19 April 2023, he was the chairman of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu, but was replaced by Züleyxa Izmailova on 2 June of the same year in connection with two misdemeanour proceedings and one administrative proceeding initiated against Tamme by the Environmental Board.
Tarmo Tamm is unmarried with two children.


== References ==

Yoshiyuki Fuchiwaki (渕脇 芳行) is a Japanese retired professional baseball player. He spent seven seasons with the Osaka Kintetsu Buffaloes and made one appearance in a first-team match.


== Career ==


=== High school ===
Fuchiwaki was a member of the Osaka Tōin High School baseball club. While in his final year of high school he was drafted by the Kintetsu Buffaloes in the 6th round of the 1992 draft.


=== Professional career ===
Fuchiwaki spent 7 seasons with the Kintetsu Buffaloes from 1992 to 1999 (the Buffaloes became the Osaka Kintetsu Buffaloes before the start of the 1999 season). On April 13, 1999 he made his only appearance for the Buffaloes' first team, entering the game as a pinch runner in the top half of the 8th inning. He had two at bats later in the match, but failed to reach first base.
Fuchiwaki played 19 games for the Fujiidera Buffaloes (Kintetsu's farm team) in 1999, down from 72 the previous year. He retired from professional baseball at the end of the 1999 season.
In 2012 Fuchiwaki became the coach of Riseisha High School's baseball club.


== References ==


== External links ==
Individual statistics at baseball-reference.com

Selenops tonteldoos is a species of spider in the family Selenopidae. It is endemic to South Africa.


== Distribution ==
Selenops tonteldoos is found in Mpumalanga province in South Africa. The species is known only from the type locality at 1,999 m above sea level.


== Habitat and ecology ==
The species inhabits the Savanna biome and is a free-living cryptozoic nocturnal ground living spider.


== Description ==

Known only from the female. The carapace is reddish brown while the chelicerae are dark brown-reddish. The legs are dark brown with the dorsal portion of the femora being light brown. The terminal portion of all tibiae and metatarsi have whitish hairs. The abdomen is pale yellow with a central, longitudinal dark band that has lateral branches and lateral dark spots. The terminal portion of the opisthosoma has tufts of white hairs while the venter is yellowish. Total length is 14.30 mm.


== Conservation ==
Selenops tonteldoos is listed as Data Deficient by the IUCN due to taxonomic reasons. The species has a very small range and the status remains unclear. Additional sampling is needed to collect males and to determine the species' range.


== Etymology ==
The species is named after Tonteldoos, the location where it was first found.


== Taxonomy ==
The species was described by Corronca in 2005 from Dullstroom Tonteldoos.


== References ==

Gertrud von Plettenberg-Seckenrode (died 26 October 1608) was a German noblewoman, administrator of several castles of the Electorate of Cologne and royal mistress of Prince Ernest of Bavaria, Archbishop of Cologne.


== Biography ==
Gertrud von Plettenberg was a member of the Seckenrode branch of the House of Plettenberg. She was born as a daughter of Ulrich II von Plettenberg-Seckenrode (1530-1584) and his wife, Catharina Margaretha von Luggenhausen (b. 1535). As her family was poor, but noble and well connected, she was given a position at the court of Ernest of Bavaria in Arnsberg, Hirschberg and Höllinghofen. Because of her, Ernest primarily resided at Arnsberg from 1595 onward. Gertrud and Ernest were lovers from 1595, and reportedly married secretly and morganatically in 1605. They had one son, legitimized in 1600, Wilhelm von Bayern, Baron von Höllinghofen, Abbot of Stablo and Malmedy (d. 1657) and one daughter. From 1598, she is mentioned by contemporaries as his hostess. There were rumors at her death that she had been poisoned by the Duchess of Cleves.


== References ==

Magdalena Padberg: Jungfer Gertrud und ihre Familie. In: Jahrbuch Hochsauerlandkreis 1990. Brilon 1989

Centro di Cultura e Civiltà Contadina - Biblioteca Internazionale La Vigna is an institute of documentation specialised in studies concerning agriculture and wine. It is considered as the most important reference point for ampelographic research worldwide.
It is situated in Vicenza in Contrà Porta Santa Croce n. 3 in Palazzo Brusarosco, then Galla. The palace is an eighteenth-century building, which was partially restored by the architect Carlo Scarpa.


== History of the institution ==

“Centro di Cultura e Civiltà Contadina” - Biblioteca Internazionale “La Vigna” was established by Demetrio Zaccaria. He was an entrepreneur from Vicenza who began to get interested in the field after having read a book about oenology in New York City in 1951. It took twenty years to build an international library for researchers and connoisseurs. Dictionary of Wine by Frank Schoonmaker was the first book that was bought. Demetrio Zaccaria took part in international meetings,  maintained important connections worldwide and started to buy ancient and rare books. Particularly important was the meeting with André Simon in London. André Simon, who was the founder of the International Wine and Food Society, author of important books about gastronomy and wine, as well as a leading figure in the Champagne commerce worldwide, became a model to follow for Demetrio Zaccaria.  
In the early seventies Zaccaria left Toscolano, on the Lake Garda, where he had lived since 1958, and moved permanently to Vicenza with his collection of books. In 1980 he bought  Palazzo Brusarosco which is the base of the present library. The following year, when he was seventy, he donated the palace and his collection of almost 10.000 books to the “Comune di Vicenza”. He did this because he was worried about the future of his collection and also because he tried in vain to find another settlement. He became general secretary of  “Centro di Cultura e Civiltà Contadina” and of the International Library “La Vigna”. Demetrio Zaccaria died in 1993 after having received important international recognitions.


== The base ==

“Centro di Cultura e Civiltà Contadina” and Biblioteca Internazionale “La Vigna” have their headquarters in  Palazzo Brusarosco. The few information about the original building say that it was a house situated within the fifteenth-century Scaliger city walls. In the following centuries the house was time after time modified. In the eighteenth century the building was widened by Ottone Calderari. The new owner  Orazio Brusarosco entrusted the architect Tommaso Becega the task of  rebuilding the porch and facade in 1833.
During the Second World War the building was hardly damaged because of the Anglo-American bombings.
The lawyer from Vicenza Ettore Gallo bought the building in the early seventies. He assigned the renovations to the architect Carlo Scarpa. Then, he moved there his law firm and his house. On the second floor Scarpa planned the house for the family Gallo, converting the loft into a large flat. There he converged two themes he loved: the residence and the museum. The special features of the flat are fluent paths, smooth corners and the absence of doors. It is also lighted from natural, indirect and diaphanous light. Today this flat is mainly used for exhibitions and conferences.  
On the first floor, where the present library is based, Scarpa strengthened the ceiling of the living room and of the hall inserting girders.
On the ground floor was built an independent flat that is now used as storage area of books.


== Collections ==
The current book collection is made of about 50.000 works, especially concerning agriculture, vineyard-growing, wine production, beekeeping, the production of olive oil and of honey and gastronomy treatises. The collection is constantly updated with new purchases, both of ancient and modern volumes. The ancient collection includes the most important editions of gastronomy that were published in Italy between the sixteenth and the seventeenth century. A peculiar example is  De honesta voluptate by Platina (1530), which is considered as the first treatise of modern gastronomy.
As regards the works about enology, the library keeps some editions of De naturali vinorum historia (1596) by the Roman doctor Andrea Bacci.
The physical-philological-historic-medical-chemical treatise Ampelographia (1660) by the German doctor Philipp Jacob Sachs starts the collection of treatises about ampelography which make the library an international reference point in the field. 
The dithyrambic literature and poetry is an important part of the initial collection. The library holds 63 of the 82 known editions of Il Bacco in Toscana by Francesco Redi.
Other collections, in addition to the original collection, have increased the patrimony of the library thanks to new purchases, both of ancient and modern volumes. The most important collections are:

IRA Collection (Ispettorato Regionale per l’Agricoltura): it is the library of Comizi agrari-Dipartimento di Vicenza and successively of the Itinerant Chair of the province of Vicenza. This collection has been given by the Ispettorato Regionale dell'Agricoltura. It contains 2500 works that were printed between the end of the nineteenth and the beginning of the twentieth century. The works of this collection contain information about the story of the agrarian economy in Vicenza and in Veneto in the nineteenth and twentieth century.
Fagiani Collection: this collection was given as a gift by Fernando Fagiani, a historian of the economic and social thought of the nineteenth and twentieth century. It is made up of 1100 books. These books deal with the agricultural history and economy not only in Italy, but also in Europe in the last centuries.
Caproni Collection: the collection was bought by the heirs of Federico Caproni in 1997, who founded the Aeronautic Caproni Industries with his brother Gianni. It contains about 6500 volumes about the agricultural management and reclaims in the autarchic period. It is also made up of rare works about agricultural history: one important example is  Della agricoltura by Rutilio Tauro Palladio which was published in Venice in 1528.
Collection Galla: this collection was given as a gift by the lawyer Mariano Galla in 2007. It is made up of about 400 works – volumes and periodicals- about hunting that were published between the twentieth and the twenty-first century. You can find many books which describe the capture techniques of the game. There are hunting tales and diaries, precious illustrated books on birds (in particular on woodcocks), some manuals telling what to do to obtain the hunting licence and several encyclopedias. Del modo di piantare e custodire una ragnaja e di uccellare a ragna (1790) is the oldest work of the collection. This work was wrongly attributed to Bernardo Davanzati and was often published in his Opera Omnia. In reality this book was by  G.A. Popoleschi, wo carefully described how to build and use this bird trap, which was probably invented in Florence in Tuscany.


== Cultural initiatives ==
In his notarial deed, Demetrio Zaccaria wanted the denomination  “Centro di Cultura e Civiltà Contadina” to be used before “Biblioteca Internazionale “La Vigna”. This aimed to promote the initiatives of researchers and enthusiasts which increase the value of the collection of the library. The specific cultural activities, whose projects have been even more elaborate and qualified, are planned and carried out thanks to the contribution of  “Consiglio Scientifico”, in collaboration with hosted or external associations as “CRA”, “ Centro di Ricerca per la Viticoltura di Conegliano”, “ Istituto di Genetica e Sperimentazione Agraria “N. Strampelli”” of Lonigo, “ Fondazione Masi”, “AIS Veneto” (Associazione Italiana Sommeliers), local consortiums for the conservation of DOC wines, “FAI”,  “Club Lions”, Rotarys from Vicenza,  “Associazione Italiana Cultura del Tè”, “Confraternita della Vite e del Vino del Veneto Orientale e del Friuli-Venezia Giulia” and so on.
This cultural centre has also started the initiative “Amici de La Vigna” in order to support its cultural and institutional activities.


== Hosted associations ==
The institution hosts the following associations which are engaged upon gastronomic culture and environmental conservation:

Accademia internazionale “La donna e il vino”
Associazione “Amici dei Parchi”
Accademia italiana “La vite e il vino”
Accademia italiana della cucina – Sezione di Vicenza
Gruppo micologico Bresadola – Vicenza
Convivium Slow Food del Vicentino


== See also ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Liebing (Hungarian Rendek) is a village in the district of Oberpullendorf in Burgenland in Austria. It is part of the municipality of Mannersdorf an der Rabnitz.


== Location ==
Liebing lies 6 km West of Kőszeg and 7 km East of Lockenhaus.


== History ==
The town was the site of iron smelting from the ancient times; the name of the town originates from the Slavic word for 'ironworker', rednek. The first written mention in the form Lennek comes from a document by Emperor Sigismund dated 1390. The town belonged to the estate of Lockenhaus castle. It was destroyed by the Ottomans in 1529 and 1532, but it was subsequently rebuilt.
In 1910, the town had a population of 310, most of whom were German speakers. Until the end of World War I, it belonged in the Kőszeg district of Vas county within the Kingdom of Hungary. Rendek was transferred to Austria in return for the town of Ólmod in 1923 subsequent to the Treaties of Saint-Germain and Trianon.


== Main Sights ==
Roman Catholic church (1762)
The thickest chestnut tree in Austria dating from the time of Maria Theresia, its diameter is estimated to be 10m and its age 350 years.


== Notes ==

Immotthia is a genus of fungi in the family Roussoellaceae.
It was formerly in family Teichosporaceae.
It is only found in parts of Europe and parts of North and South America.


== Species ==
As accepted by Species Fungorum;

Immotthia atrograna (Cooke & Ellis) M.E. Barr (1993)
Immotthia atroseptata (Piroz.) M.E. Barr (2002)
Immotthia bambusae H.B. Jiang & Phookamsak (2021)
Former species; I. hypoxylon (Ellis & Everh.) M.E. Barr (1987) = Immotthia atrograna 


== References ==

John Boyagis (26 January 1928 – 22 July 2020) was a British alpine skier. He competed at the 1948 Winter Olympics and the 1952 Winter Olympics. He died on 22 July 2020 at the age of 92.


== References ==


== External links ==
John Boyagis at Olympics.com
John Boyagis at Olympedia

The 1990–91 Irish League was the 90th edition of the Irish League, the highest level of football in Northern Ireland. The league began with the first round of matches on 22 September 1990 and ended with the final round of matches on 27 April 1991. Defending champions Portadown won the championship for the second time.
The league consisted of 16 teams, an increase of two from the previous season as Ballyclare Comrades and Omagh Town were elected to the league. 
Portadown qualified to compete in the 1991–92 European Cup and runners-up Bangor qualified for the 1991–92 UEFA Cup.


== Background ==
The Irish League was formed in 1890 and was originally a league for the whole of the island of Ireland. From 1920, the competition has been contested by teams from Northern Ireland.
Linfield were the most successful team in the history of the competition having won the league 45 times. Portadown were the defending champions after winning the league for the first time in 1989–90, beating Glenavon to the title by a single point.
The league was increased in size from 14 teams in 1989–90 to 16 teams. No teams were relegated and Ballyclare Comrades and Omagh Town were elected to the league.


== Format ==
The league took on a traditional double round robin format. Each team played every other team twice – once at home and once away from home – for a total of 30 matches each. Three points were awarded for a win, one point was awarded for a draw and nothing was awarded for a loss. Teams were ranked on total number of points accumulated with ties broken by goal difference.


== League standings ==


== Results ==


== References ==

Yusuf Tanko Sununu (born 2 February 1967 in Kebbi State) is a Nigerian politician from the All Progressives Congress. On 21 August 2023 he was appointed Minister of State for Education in the Cabinet of Bola Tinubu. Sununu represents Yauri/Shanga/Ngaski Federal Constituency in the National Assembly.


== References ==

Alexandra Swayne (born April 27, 2000) is an American professional golfer representing the United States Virgin Islands. She plays on the Ladies European Tour, where she was part of the team finishing runner-up at the 2022 Aramco Team Series – Jeddah.


== Early life and amateur career ==
Swayne was born in Cincinnati, Ohio and began playing golf at the age of 12. At 15, she won the Drive, Chip & Putt National Championship at Augusta National Golf Club. In 2018, she won the Golfweek Junior Tour Championship and was an AJGA Rolex All-American.
Swayne enrolled at Clemson University in 2018 to play with the Clemson Tigers women's golf team, and graduated after three years in 2021. She became the first golfer at Clemson to qualify for both the  U.S. Women's Amateur and U.S. Women's Open in the same year.


== Professional career ==
Swayne turned professional in 2022 and joined the Ladies European Tour, where she has recorded top-10 finishes at the 2022 Joburg Ladies Open and 2024 Jabra Ladies Open. She was runner-up alongside Christine Wolf and Laura Beveridge at the 2022 Aramco Team Series – Jeddah, where they lost the team championship in a playoff to a team captained by Nicole Garcia.


== Amateur wins ==
2015 Drive, Chip & Putt National Championship
2017 AJGA Junior at Penn State
2018 AJGA Junior at Forest Lake, Golfweek Junior Tour Championship
2021 Caribbean Amateur Golf Championship
Source:


== Results in LPGA majors ==

CUT = missed the half-way cut


== Team appearances ==
Professional

Pan American Games (representing United States Virgin Islands): 2023


== References ==


== External links ==
Alexandra Swayne at the European Tour official site
Alexandra Swayne at the Women's World Golf Rankings official site

Jago Party is an Indian political party. It was founded in August 2007 by a group of non-political Indians and was registered with the Election Commission of India in January 2008.


== Vision ==
- To make a society based on individual freedom to pursue one's happiness, so long as one does not take away freedom of others by force or fraud
- To make India a free market economy and protect its freedom-based institutions such as democracy and secularism
- To restrict role of the government only to maintenance of individual's freedom and management of public property
- To eliminate all discrimination exercised by government or individuals on the basis of religion, caste, sex, place of birth, income, ethnicity etc.
- To strive for one world government based on democracy, secularism, and free market economy with one global policing and justice system


== Manifesto ==
Elimination of all reservations and provision of free education to all
Death sentence for big-scale corruption and rape; court judgment within three months
Removal of all subsidies; direct transfer of cash worth Rs 800 per month to all voters
Maximum privatization including that of power and railways
No income tax up to Rs. 400,000 per annum; reduction in number and rates of taxes


=== Membership ===
The Party has two categories of membership:
Primary membership:
Any person who is a citizen of India, has attained the age of 18, accepts the Constitution and ideology of the party, and is not a member of any other political organization can become a primary member of Jago Party. There is no membership fee on enrollment as a primary member.
Active membership:
Every active member must be aged 18 or over, pay the annual membership fee of Rs.100 and actively participate in the party's activities.
Local organization of Jago Party:

a. A state/UT general council for each state/UT.
b. A state/UT executive committee.
c. A district general council for each district.
d. A district executive committee for each district.
The primary unit of the party is the district executive committee.


== 2008 Rajasthan Assembly elections ==
Jago Party contested Assembly election in Rajasthan in 2008 in 26 seats, although no candidate won the election. Jago Party was ahead of all the smaller parties in most of the 26 constituencies it contested, except Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Indian National Congress and SP. Jago Party was ahead of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in two constituencies and was fourth there among all political parties.
Jago Party contested the elections of Rajasthan Vidhan Sabha in 2013 and Lok Sabha in 2014.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website of Jago Party
Facebook page of Jago Party
Jago Party Mission

The Houston Texans are a professional American football team based in Houston, Texas. The Texans are members of the South division in the American Football Conference (AFC) of the National Football League (NFL). They were founded in 1999 and began play as an expansion team in 2002. The team was owned by Bob McNair until his death in 2018; following McNair's death, the majority ownership of the team went to his wife, Janice. The Texans are the youngest franchise currently competing in the NFL.

In American football, the quarterback is widely regarded as the most important position, responsible for on-field decision-making as well taking the snap on almost all offensive plays. Only one quarterback can start any given game for each team.

These quarterbacks have started at least one game for the Houston Texans of the National Football League.


== Regular season ==

The number of games they started during the season is listed to the right:


== Postseason ==


== Most games as starting quarterback ==
These quarterbacks have the most starts for the Texans in regular season games.


== See also ==
Lists of NFL starting quarterbacks


== References ==

Robert McKenzie Carlin (24 January 1871 – 10 March 1950) was an English cricketer who played first-class cricket  for Derbyshire between 1905 and 1908. He also played football for Sheffield United. Carlin died at Conisbrough, Yorkshire at the age of 79.


== Cricket career ==
Carlin was born at Eastwood, Nottinghamshire. He made his debut for Derbyshire in the 1905 season in July against Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) when he took two wickets, but did not play for the club again until the 1907 season. He played ten matches in that year, and four in the 1908 season.
Carlin was a right-hand batsman and played 28 innings in 15 first-class matches with an average of 11.33 and a top score of 37. He was a right-arm medium pace bowler and took five first-class wickets at an average of 41.60 and with a best performance of 2 for 53.


== Football career ==

Alongside cricket, Carlin played football as a goalkeeper, starting as a junior with Heanor Town before playing for Dronfield and professionally with Sheffield United, later playing for both South Kirkby and Mexborough Athletic.


== References ==

The Ploutonion at Hierapolis (Ancient Greek: Πλουτώνειον Ploutōneion, lit "Place of Pluto"; Latin: Plutonium) or Pluto's Gate was a ploutonion (a religious site dedicated to the god Pluto)  in the ancient city of Hierapolis near Pamukkale in modern Turkey's Denizli Province. The site was discovered in 1965 by Italian archaeologists, who published reports on their excavations throughout the decade. Following the studies carried out on site in 1998, a geologist of the Italian National Research Council, Luigi Piccardi, recognized that the origin of both the Ploutonion and of the nearby Apollo's Oracle of Hierapolis was linked to the existence of the surface trace of a seismic fault, on which both sanctuaries were purposely built and which was revered as Gateway of Hades. In 2013, it was further explored by Italian archaeologists led by Francesco D'Andria, a professor of archaeology at the University of Salento. As part of a restoration project, a replica of the marble statue of Hades and Cerberus has been restored to its original place. The statue is known to have been there in ancient times.


== History ==
Though the exact age of the site is currently unknown, the nearby city of Hierapolis was founded around the year 190 BC by the King of Pergamum, Eumenes II.
The site is built on top of a cave which emits toxic gases, hence its use as a ritual passage to the underworld. Ritual animal sacrifices were common at the site. Animals would be thrown into the cave and pulled back out with ropes that had been tied to them. Archaeologists noted that the fumes emitted from the cavern still maintain their deadly properties as they recorded passing birds, attracted by the warm air, suffocated after breathing the toxic fumes.

The Ploutonion was described by several ancient writers including Strabo, Cassius Dio and Damascius . It is a small cave, just large enough for one person to enter through a fenced entrance, beyond which stairs go down, and from which emerges suffocating carbon dioxide gas caused by underground geologic activity. Behind the 3 square metres (32 sq ft) roofed chamber is a deep cleft in the rock, through which fast-flowing hot water passes, releasing a sharp-smelling gas. Because the gas was lethal, it was thought that the gas was sent by Pluto, god of the underworld.
During the early years of the town, the castrated priests of Cybele known as the Galli descended into the Ploutonion, crawled over the floor to pockets of oxygen or held their breath. Carbon dioxide is heavier than air and so tends to settle in hollows. They then came up to show that they were immune to the gas. People believed a miracle had happened and that therefore the priests were infused with superior powers and had divine protection.
An enclosed area of 2,000 square metres (22,000 sq ft) stood in front of the entrance. It was covered by a thick layer of suffocating gas, killing everyone who dared to enter this area. The priests sold birds and other animals to the visitors, so that they could try out how deadly this enclosed area was. Visitors could (for a fee) ask questions of the oracle of Pluto. This provided a considerable source of income for the temple. The entrance to the Ploutonion was closed off during the Christian times.
The ancient historian Strabo described the gate as follows:

Any animal that passes inside meets instant death. I threw in sparrows and they immediately breathed their last and fell.


=== Destruction ===
Archaeological evidence suggests that the site was fully functional until the 4th century AD, but remained a place of sporadic visitation by visitors for the next two centuries. The temple was destroyed in the 6th century AD by earthquakes.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Ramsay, William M. (2004). The Cities And Bishoprics Of Phyrgia: Being An Essay Of The Local History Of Phrygia From The Earliest Times To The Turkish Conquest. Kessinger Publishing. p. 86. ISBN 9781419172830.
Piccardi, L. (2000). Active faulting at Delphi: seismotectonic remarks and a hypothesis for the geological environment of a myth. Geology, Vol. 28 (7), pp. 651–654.
Piccardi, L. (2005). Paleoseismic evidence of legendary earthquakes: the apparition of Archangel Michael at Monte Sant’Angelo (Italy). Tectonophysics, Vol. 408, pp. 113–128. doi:10.1016/j.tecto.2005.05.041
Francesco D´Andria, Cehennem'den Cennet'e Hierapolis (Pamukkale). Ploutonion. Aziz Philippus'un Mezarı ve Kutsal Alanı. Ege Yayınları, Istanbul 2014. ISBN 978-605-4701-45-2

Surya Narayan Yadav is a Nepalese politician, belonging to the People's Socialist Party, Nepal who was elected as the member of the 1st Federal Parliament of Nepal. In the 2017 Nepalese general election he was elected from the Saptari 1 constituency, securing 21712 (37.24%) votes.


== References ==

Tumaslı (also, Tumasly and Tumaslu) is a village and municipality in the Sharur District of Nakhchivan, Azerbaijan. It is located 12 km in the south from the district center, on the plain. Its population is busy with farming and animal husbandry. There are secondary school, library, club, kindergarten and a medical center in the village. It has a population of 605.


== Etymology ==
According to information of the locals, the village was founded by families who moved from the Tumas (present "Dağ Tumas") village of the Jabrayil region in the 19th century.


== References ==

Tumaslı (as Tumasly) at GEOnet Names Server

State Route 877 (SR 877) is a state highway in rural Washoe County, Nevada. It runs along Franktown Road in the western reaches of the Washoe Valley.


== Route description ==

SR 877 begins in Washoe Valley, 2.0 miles (3.2 km) north of the Carson City–Washoe County line. The route begins at the intersection of Bowers Mansion Road/U.S. Route 395 Alternate (US 395 Alt.) and Franktown Road. From there, the highway follows Franktown Road west and then north for about 4.3 miles (6.9 km) through the eastern foothills of the Carson Range on the western side of Washoe Valley. Franktown Road comes to an end at a second intersection with US 395 Alt., just south of Bowers Mansion.
According to Deke Castleman, author of the Nevada Handbook (Moon Publications), "this few-mile drive along Franktown Road is one of the state's prettiest scenic valley and foothill stretches of road."


== Major intersections ==
The entire route is in Washoe Valley, Washoe County.


== See also ==
 Nevada portal
 U.S. Roads portal


== References ==

Victor Varshavsky (Russian: Виктор Ильич Варшавский) (23 February 1933, Leningrad - 3 January 2005, Tel Aviv) was a Soviet-Israeli computer scientist. His research was concentrated in three areas: threshold logic, probabilistic automata, and asynchronous circuits.


== Early years ==
Due to the Second World War, Varshavsky was evacuated from Leningrad to Barnaul and was there until 1949. In the 9th grade, he was transferred to High School №203 named after Griboyedov in Leningrad.


== Education ==
In 1956, Varshavsky graduated from the Leningrad Institute of Precision Mechanics and Optics (now ITMO University), majoring in "Firing control devices". In 1962, he defended his PhD dissertation. In threshold logic at the Leningrad Institute of Aviation Instrumentation. In 1969, he defended his DSc dissertation (equivalent of Habilitation) in collective behavior of probabilistic automata at the Academy of Sciences of the USSR. This research was a continuation of what had been done by Varshavsky's DSc advisor Michael Tsetlin.


== Scientific career ==
From 1956 to 1960, before getting into PhD study, Varshavsky worked at the Research Institute of the Ministry of Shipbuilding Industry in Leningrad as an engineer and then as a group leader. He started at Design Bureau КБ-4 of the Plant 212, which later was joined with Research Institute НИИ-303 (P.O. box 128 and 536, now CSRI Elektropribor). From 1960 to 1980, he worked at the Computing Center of the Leningrad Branch of the Mathematical Institute (ВЦ ЛОМИ) of the USSR Academy of Sciences as a researcher and then as the Head of Department. This computing center was later reorganized into the Institute of Socio-Economic Problems (ИСЭП, now Institute of Regional Economic Problems).
In 1978, he was on leave for three months at the laboratory of artificial intelligence at the University of Edinburgh. In 1975, he started to teach at the Department of Computer Engineering (Вычислительная техника) at Leningrad Electrotechnical Institute (LETI). In 1980, he got the position of Full Professor at the Department of Computer Science (Математическое обеспечение ЭВМ). Varshavsky was able to take with him to LETI only a part of his team, namely, V. B. Marakhovsky and L. Ya. Rosenblum.
In 1988, Varshavsky organized an R&D company, "Trassa", which produced CAD tools for the synthesis and analysis of asynchronous circuits. This company overcame the collapse of the Soviet Union and existed till 1993, when Varshavsky and a little part of his team started to work in Japan. From 1993 to 2000, he was Full Professor and Head of the Computer Logic Design Laboratory at the University of Aizu, Japan. From 2002 to 2003, he was the Head of the department of logical control at Neural Network Technologies, Bnei-Brak, Israel. From 2003 till his death in 2005, he was the Chief Scientific Officer at Advanced Logic Design Company at Kanazawa University, Japan.
From 1965 onwards, Varshavsky was a member of the Commission on the theory of relay devices and finite state machines under the Scientific Council on the Complex Problem of "Cybernetics" of the USSR Academy of Sciences, and since 1985,  a member of the Council of the USSR Academy of Sciences on artificial intelligence. For his numerous inventions, some of which have been used for mass production, Varshavsky has been awarded (in 1980-th) the Honorary Badge “Inventor of the USSR”.
In 1988, he was awarded the VDNH gold medal for the best project in microelectronics.


== Contribution to cybernetics ==
Varshavsky is an author and co-author of six books, several book chapters and technical reports more than 150 papers, and more than 120 Soviet author's certificates, as well as American and Japanese patents. He was a chief technical officer of more than 15 projects in the following areas: system architecture, design of devices based on threshold logic, design of reliable computing devices, hardware support for asynchronous processes, design of VLSI circuits, design of asynchronous circuits, neural networks and fuzzy logic.


== References ==

Olvio (Greek: Όλβιο) is a settlement in the municipality Topeiros in the Xanthi regional unit of Greece. It is located six kilometers north of Evlalos and 24 kilometers northeast of Xanthi. In 2021, the population of Olvio was 286 inhabitants.


== References ==

Ernst Orvil (née Ernst Richard Nilsen; 12 April 1898 – 16 June 1985) was a Norwegian novelist, short story writer, poet and playwright.


== Biography ==
Ernst Richard Orvil  was born in Kristiania (now Oslo), Norway. His parents Johan Nilsen (Rev. Nilsson) (1859–1957) and Sara-Lisa Pettersson (1864–1940), were  both from Värmland, Sweden. He graduated artium at the Kristiania cathedral school in 1917.  Later he was an engineering student  at the Norwegian Institute of Technology in Trondheim.
He made his literary debut with the novel Birger in 1932, followed by six annual releases in this same genre. His first poetry collection was Bølgeslag (1940). His more notable works include Menneskebråk (1936), Hvit uro (1937) and Synøve selv (1946).
Orvil was awarded Gyldendal's Endowment in 1946. He received the Aschehoug Prize in 1979. He was awarded the Riksmål Society Literature Prize in 1984.


== References ==

Woodmancote is a settlement which adjoins Dursley in Gloucestershire, England. St Mark's Church which is the locality closed for regular services in 2023. It is grade II listed building.


== References ==

Jász–Nagykun–Szolnok (Hungarian: Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok vármegye, pronounced [ˈjaːs ˈnɒckun ˈsolnok]) is an administrative county (comitatus or vármegye) in Hungary. It lies in central Hungary and shares borders with the Hungarian counties Pest, Heves, Borsod–Abaúj–Zemplén, Hajdú–Bihar, Békés, Csongrád, and Bács–Kiskun. The rivers Tisza and Körös flow through the county. The capital of Jász–Nagykun–Szolnok county is Szolnok. Its area is 5,582 km2 (2,155 sq mi). The county is named after the Ossetians (Jasz) and Cumans (Kun) who settled there, along with Szolnok. The county was part of the Danube–Criș–Mureș–Tisa Euroregion between 1997 and 2004.


== Geography ==
This county has a total area of 5,582 km2 (2,155 sq mi) – 6.00% of Hungary.


=== Neighbouring counties ===
Heves and Borsod–Abaúj–Zemplén County in the North.
Hajdú–Bihar and Békés County in the East.
Csongrád-Csanád County in the South.
Bács–Kiskun and Pest County in the West.


== Symbols ==


=== Coat of arms and flag ===
The county's coat of arms was recreated in 1991 from the coats of arms of the former Jászkun periphery, with the crown and frame decoration on it. It consists of the unification of the coat of arms of Jászság, Nagykunság and former Exterior-Szolnok County. The upper part is divided into two equally spaced vertices from top to bottom.

The flag is vertically divided into two equal sections (blue and white), with the coat of arms on it, and the county's name embroidered with gold thread under the coat of arms. Its ratio is 2:1. The use of both coat of arms and flag is regulated by the county council.


== History ==


== Demographics ==

In 2015, it had a population of 379,897 and the population density was 68/km2.


=== Ethnicity ===

Besides the Hungarian majority, the main minorities are the Roma (approx. 19,000), German and Romanian (500).
Total population (2011 census): 386,594
Ethnic groups (2011 census):
Identified themselves: 344,488 persons:

Hungarians: 323,293 (93.85%)
Roma: 18,935 (5.50%)
Others and indefinable: 2,260 (0.66%)
Approx. 56,000 persons in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County did not declare their ethnic group at the 2011 census.


=== Religion ===

Religious adherence in the county according to 2011 census:

Catholic – 124,331 (Roman Catholic – 123,208; Greek Catholic – 1,106);
Reformed – 42,968;
Evangelical – 1,127;
other religions – 4,312;
Non-religious – 108,247;
Atheism – 4,651;
Undeclared – 100,958.


== Regional structure ==


== Transport ==


=== Road network ===

As of 2012, Jász–Nagykun–Szolnok County has a dense network of public roads, totalling 1,330 km (830 mi) in length of which 112 km (70 mi) are primary and 283 km (176 mi) are secondary. There are 935 km (581 mi) of county and communal roads and 14 km (8.7 mi) are covered with light road surfaces.

Highway network
 from Budapest to Nagykereki (Romanian border). (planned)
 from Szolnok to Szentgotthárd (Austrian border). (planned)
 from Kecskemét to Gyula (Romanian border). (under construction)
Road network
  runs from Budapest to Záhony (Ukrainian border), via Szolnok, Törökszentmiklós and Karcag. – 81 km (50 mi)
 runs from Budapest to Füzesabony, via Jászberény and Jászapáti.
 runs from Szolnok to Hatvan, via Újszász, Jászberény and Jászfényszaru. ~ 74 km (46 mi)
 runs from Füzesabony to Debrecen, via Tiszafüred.
 runs from Tiszafüred to Fegyvernek, via Kunhegyes. ~ 53 km (33 mi)
 old sections of Main road 4.
 runs from Kecskemét to Gyula (Romanian border), via Kunszentmárton and Öcsöd. – 29 km (18 mi)
 runs from Kunszentmárton to Hódmezővásárhely. – 10 km (6.2 mi)
 runs from Törökszentmiklós to Mezőberény, via Mezőtúr. – 33 km (21 mi)
402 runs from Szolnok-center to Main road 4.
 runs from Szolnok to Kunszentmárton, via Martfű. – 43 km (27 mi)


=== Rail network ===

Rail lines in the county cover 503 km (313 mi) of route. 35% are double track, and over 45% (243 km, 151 mi) are electrified.


== Politics ==


=== County Assembly ===

The county is governed by the County board of supervisors, which is located in the county seat.
The Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County Council, elected at the 2024 local government elections, is made up of 18 counselors, with the following party composition:


==== Presidents of the County Assembly ====


=== Members of the National Assembly ===
The following members elected of the National Assembly during the 2022 parliamentary election:


== Municipalities ==
Jász–Nagykun–Szolnok County has 1 urban county, 21 towns, 4 large villages and 52 villages.

City with county rights
(ordered by population, as of 2011 census)

 Szolnok (72,953) – county seat
Towns

Large villages

Villages


== Gallery ==


== Notable people ==
Many famous people have been born or lived in present-day Jász–Nagykun–Szolnok County:

Statesman: Miklós Horthy
Politicians: János Tóth, István Antal, Sándor Fazekas, Mihály Varga
Writers, poets and playwrights: Ferenc Verseghy, István Csukás
Musicians Classical: Déryné Róza Széppataki, Zoltán Jeney, Zoltán Mága. Other: Pál Kalmár, Ferenc Molnár "Caramel"
Scientists: Gábor Szegő, Kalman Laki, Albert Kónya, József Hámori, Avram Hershko
Sportspeople: Aladár Gerevich, Bertalan Papp, Gábor Benedek, Tibor Csík, Pál B. Nagy, Géza Csapó
Actors, entertainers and film directors: Alexander Korda, Zoltan Korda, Vincent Korda, János Görbe, Gyula Szabó, Eszter Tamási
Militarian: Lajos Czinege
Businessman: Sándor Csányi
Others: Gyula Németh, István Sándor


== International relations ==

Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County has a partnership relationship with:


== See also ==
Cumans – the ancient nomadic warriors after whom the county is named


== References ==


== External links ==
Official site in Hungarian, English, German and French
Új-Néplap (szoljon.hu) – The county portal
Hungary at GeoHive at the Wayback Machine (archived 2013-12-03)

During the COVID-19 pandemic, social distancing measures were implemented nearly worldwide in order to slow the spread of the disease. This article details the history of the social distancing measures, a list of countries implementing them, when they were implemented, and other details about the measures. Except where stated otherwise, dates in this article refer to the year 2020.


== Background ==

Social distancing, or physical distancing, is a set of non-pharmaceutical interventions or measures taken to prevent the spread of a contagious disease by maintaining a physical distance between people and reducing the number of times people come into close contact with each other. It involved keeping a distance of six feet or two meters, with a minimum of one meter or 3 feet, from others and avoiding gathering together in large groups.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, social distancing and related measures were recommended by several governments as alternatives to an enforced quarantine of heavily affected areas. According to UNESCO monitoring, more than a hundred countries implemented nationwide school closures in response to COVID-19, impacting over half the world's student population. In the United Kingdom, the government advised the public to avoid public spaces, and cinemas and theatres voluntarily closed to encourage the government's message.
With many people at the time disbelieving that COVID-19 is any worse than the seasonal flu, it was difficult to convince the public to voluntarily adopt social distancing practices. In Belgium, media reported a rave was attended by at least 300 before it was broken up by local authorities. In France, teens making nonessential trips were fined up to US$150. Beaches were closed in Florida and Alabama to disperse partygoers during spring break. Weddings were broken up in New Jersey and an 8;00 p.m. curfew was imposed in Newark. New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Pennsylvania were the first states to adopt coordinated social distancing policies which closed down non-essential businesses and restricted large gatherings. Shelter in place orders in California were extended to the entire state on 19 March. On the same day, Texas declared a public disaster and imposed statewide restrictions.
These preventive measures such as social-distancing and self-isolation prompted the widespread closure of primary, secondary, and post-secondary schools in more than 120 countries. As of 23 March 2020, more than 1.2 billion learners were out of school due to school closures in response to COVID-19. Given low rates of COVID-19 symptoms among children, the effectiveness of school closures has been called into question. Even when school closures are temporary, it carries high social and economic costs. However, the significance of children in spreading COVID-19 is unclear. While the full impact of school closures during the coronavirus pandemic are not yet known, UNESCO advises that school closures have negative impacts on local economies and on learning outcomes for students.

It was suggested that improving ventilation and managing exposure duration could reduce transmission risk.COVID-19 lockdowns by country


== Debate ==
While enjoying broad support among epidemiologists, the social distancing measures are at times politically controversial. Intellectual support for the opposition tends to come from writers of other fields, although there are a few heterodox epidemiologists. During U.S. house oversight committee hearings, Dr. Anthony Fauci, formerly the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases director and chief White House medical adviser, said in regards to the 6 feet social distancing not being based on data "I think it would fall under the category of empiric. Just an empiric decision that wasn't based on data or even data that could be accomplished. But I'm thinking hard as I'm talking to you. … I don't recall, like, a discussion of, ‘Now, it's going to be’ — it sort of just appeared, that 6 feet is going to be the distance."


== See also ==
COVID-19 pandemic lockdowns
National responses to the COVID-19 pandemic
Face masks during the COVID-19 pandemic


== References ==

A snow knife or snow saw (Inuktitut: pana) is a tool used in the construction of igluit (snow houses) or as a weapon by Inuit of the Arctic. The snow knife was originally made from available materials such as bone or horn but the Inuit adapted to using metal after the arrival of Europeans. It may also be used for digging for berries or as a prop in storytelling.


== Historical descriptions ==
The American Association for the Advancement of Science noted in 1883:

The only instrument used in the construction of the igloo is the snow-knife. Where the Inuits [sic] have intercourse with white men, they barter for cheese-knives or long-bladed butcher-knives, remove the double-handle from the tang, and put on a single one about three times as long, which can be readily grasped by both hands. The old knives were made of reindeer-horn or from the shin-bone of the reindeer.
Among the Esquimaux in and around King William's Land I found snow-knives made of copper stripped from Sir John Franklin's ships, the imprints of the queen's broad arrow still showing on many, the blades double-edged or dagger-shape, and the handles of musk-ox and reindeer horn rudely attached by sinew lashings.

The snow-knife of iron, while more convenient in many ways, is far more liable to break in the intense cold of the winter weather, such accidents with them being very common. I have seen igloos built when the thermometer registered −70°F. At such temperatures the snow becomes almost stone-like in its compactness. The snow-knife is often used as a substitute for the snow-tester whenever that instrument is broken or left behind, for the Esquimaux are a very careless and absentminded people.


== See also ==
Tomahawk
Ulu


== References ==

Confess is an American drama television series based on the 2015 novel by Colleen Hoover, that premiered on April 7, 2017, on Go90. Directed and written by Elissa Down, the series' seven-episode first season stars Katie Leclerc and Ryan Cooper and tells the story of a young woman with a difficult past who falls in love with a man who is keeping a secret from her.


== References ==


== External links ==
Confess at IMDb

Prostasin is a protein that in humans is encoded by the PRSS8 gene.
This gene encodes a trypsinogen, which is a member of the trypsin family of serine proteases. This enzyme is highly expressed in prostate epithelia and is one of several proteolytic enzymes found in seminal fluid. The proprotein is cleaved to produce a light chain and a heavy chain which are associated by a disulfide bond. It is active on peptide linkages involving the carboxyl group of lysine or arginine.
The protein is implicated in epithelial sodium channel regulation and may help regulate a variety of tissue functions that involve a sodium channel.
High prostasin plasma levels may be associated with a higher risk for diabetes and death from cancer, especially in people with high blood sugar.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Chen LM, Hatfield ML, Fu YY, Chai KX. Prostasin regulates iNOS and cyclin D1 expression by modulating protease-activated receptor-2 signaling in prostate epithelial cells. Prostate. 2009 Dec 1;69(16):1790-801. doi: 10.1002/pros.21030. PMID: 19670249.


== External links ==
Overview of all the structural information available in the PDB for UniProt: Q16651 (Prostasin) at the PDBe-KB.

Philip Warren Hawksley (10 March 1943 – 9 March 2018) was a British Conservative politician, who served as MP for The Wrekin and Halesowen and Stourbridge.


== Early life ==
Hawksley was born at Oswestry, Shropshire,  son of Bradshaw Warren Hawksley and his wife Monica Augusta. He was educated at Mill Mead Preparatory School in Shrewsbury and Denstone College. On leaving school he joined the employ of Lloyds Bank and was working in its Shrewsbury branch at his election to parliament in 1979. He was a governor at Wolverhampton Polytechnic from 1973 to 1977 and was a member of the West Mercia Police Authority from 1977 to 1981.


== Political life ==
Hawksley was elected as a Conservative member of Shropshire County Council in 1970, serving until 1981. He first attempted to enter parliament when he contested the marginal Labour seat of Wolverhampton North East unsuccessfully in the February and October 1974 general elections against its sitting MP Renée Short.
He was successful in gaining the also marginal Labour Wrekin seat in the 1979 general election by a majority of 965 votes from Gerry Fowler. He held it with a majority of 1,331 in the 1983 general election but lost it in 1987 to incoming Labour MP Bruce Grocott.
He was adopted as a parliamentary candidate in 1990 and returned to parliament in the 1992 general election for the safer seat of Halesowen and Stourbridge following the retirement of his predecessor Sir John Stokes. During his second time in the Commons he was one of the rebel 'Eurosceptic' Conservative MPs who refused to vote for the Maastricht Treaty. At the 1997 general election his constituency was reduced by boundary changes to the Stourbridge half of the area. He contested the new seat but lost it to Labour's Debra Shipley by 5,645 votes.
He served on the parliamentary Select Committees on Employment in 1986–87 and 1994–97, and on Home Affairs in 1996–97, as well as being joint secretary of the Conservative Backbench Committee for New Towns and Urban Affairs in 1984–87. (The New Town of Telford was then part of his Wrekin constituency.)


== Work outside parliament ==
Following his defeat in 1987, Hawksley and his then wife bought and built up the Edderton Hall hotel at Forden, Montgomeryshire, in Wales, selling it as a successful concern in 1997. From 1992 to 1998 he was honorary president of Catering Industries Liaison Council. In 1998 he became director of substance abuse charity Re-Solv and was director of the Society for the Prevention of Solvent and Volatile Substance Abuse from 1998 to 2008.


== Personal life ==
He married more than once, firstly in 1967 to Cynthia Higgins, with whom he had two daughters, later to Katherine Morgan (nee Lloyd) in 1999.
He died after a short illness at Fougères, Brittany, France, in March 2018, one day before his 75th birthday.


== References ==


== External links ==
Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Warren Hawksley

Tonight You Are the Special One is the second and final album by British band Earl Brutus, released in 1998 as their only album for Fruition Recordings, a subsidiary of Island Records. Following the critical success but commercial failure of the group's previous album Your Majesty... We Are Here (1996), Earl Brutus spent a year recording Tonight in their Wembley studio. Though the band self-produced most of the material, a couple of songs were co-produced by others such as Dave Ball and William Reid. The album continues the band's aggressive sound, mixing glam rock and electronic influences and incorporating the group's distinctive "post-pub" lyrical style.
The album cover was designed by Scott King and depicts two cars feeding each other exhaust fumes via a hose in a visual metaphor for corporate suicide. Promoted by a national tour and the singles "The SAS and the Glam That Goes with It", "Come Taste My Mind" and "Universal Plan", the latter two of which charted on the UK Singles Chart, Tonight You Are the Special One was another critical success but commercial disappointment for Earl Brutus, who subsequently split up. As the group rose in stature in the years following their dissolution, Tonight You Are the Special One was re-released alongside the group's debut in 2016 by Loop 3 Music in a new remastered version containing bonus material.


== Background and recording ==
Earl Brutus were formed in 1993 by Nick Sanderson, formerly of World of Twist, and became known for their distinctive sound, which fused glam rock and electronic music, and their lyrics which were described by Mark Deming of AllMusic as "obsessively male, darkly witty, powerfully stylish, obsessed with alcohol and British life, and laced with subtly transgressive detail." Having signed to Deceptive Records, the group had settled into a line up of Sanderson, vocalist Jamie Fry, guitarist Rob Marche and keyboardist Gordon King by the time of their debut album, Your Majesty... We Are Here (1996), which received much press attention but was commercially unsuccessful. The band subsequently left Deceptive, which was struggling financially, and signed to Fruition Records, a subsidiary of Island Records, for their next album.
Earl Brutus spent a year recording Tonight You Are the Special One in their own Wembley studio with Dave Ball of The Grid. The group produced the entire album alone, except for "The SAS and the Glam That Goes with It," which was produced by Ball and Ingo Vauk, and "Male Wife," produced by Ben Lurie, Dick Meaney and William Reid.
By now, the group were working daily. King recalled: "We tried to make a job of it and there was a good working dynamic, particularly when we were writing the second album." While recording the record, the group added long-term fan Shinyu as a live member. His role was of an obtuse, non-musical nature, drinking lager onstage and making announcements like "Can I have a steak and kidney pie, please", "Japanese man shouting rubbish" and "Nick someone's drink and cause a fight." Far ahead of the album's release, "The SAS and the Glam That Goes With It" was issued as a single in October 1997, and in January 1998, the group cemented their standing as an energetic live act at the NME Brat Awards.


== Composition ==

Tonight You Are the Special One continues Earl Brutus' aggressive, abrasive style, blending glam rock and electronic influences. Writer David Stubbs wrote that, as with the band's previous album, the record "[splashes] hectically somewhere between stomp-rock and electropop." Journalist Doug Brod similarly considered both albums to be "unclassifiable (not to mention certifiable)". According to writer Roy Wilkinson of Select, the album displays a witty "audio portrait of post-pub '90s Britain," highlighting influences of glam rock and The Fall and contrasting lyrics about television chefs and Tudorbethan mansions. Tobias Jones of The Independent described the group's sound as "thrash with lippy socio-vocals, like early Blur with a testosterone injection."
"The SAS and the Glam That Goes with It" and "Come Taste My Mind" are propulsive techno pop songs allegedly intoned by "pub-managing ex-'70s footballers." The lyrics of the former song, which is Northern in tone, incorporate Shinyu's onstage comment "Nick someone's drink and cause a fight," and are based around the refrain "You are your own reaction." The latter song, meanwhile, opens with a heavy drumbeat and was described by Select as falling slightly short "of Sham 69 territory." The electronic track "God Let Me Be Kind" was inspired by Kraftwerk. "Universal Plan" displays the band's retrospective side, with its effective lyrics "I get up, go to work, eat my lunch, come home, cure cancer, that’s it. It’s a beautiful world." "Second Class War" and "Midland Road" begin with a church organ and stuttering electronic beat, respectively, before both shifting towards big guitar riffs. Earl Brutus interpolate the guitar riffs of the Osmonds' "Crazy Horses" into "Second Class War" and Hawkwind's "Silver Machine" into "Male Wife", the latter of which closes the album in a chaotic fashion.


== Artwork ==
The album cover was designed by Scott King and depicts a set of BMW and SUV cars parked besides each other, passing exhaust fumes into one another via a long hose in a visual metaphor for what King called a "yuppie suicide pact." Sanderson described the image as depicting 'corporate suicide', commenting: "You walk around London and you see all these bloody off-road great big four-wheel drive things, and all they bloody do is go from bloody Twickenham to the city. So we liked the idea of a corporate suicide pact – it's quite upbeat really. Doing everyone a favour." After the album's vinyl reissue, Radio X ranked the album cover at number 45 in their list of "The Top 50 Vinyl Album Cover Sleeves of 2016."
Scott King also designed the artwork for the album's singles. The sleeve of "The SAS and the Glam That Goes with It" features a photograph of a woman from Skipton with a moustache. The band picked the photo due to its direct yet odd style and "cartoon" nature. The "Come Taste My Mind" sleeve features a man in a bra. Jamie Fry had wanted to use a different Scott King photograph of a tin of soup, but a marketer at Island refused. Compromise was reached when the label instead placed similar tins of soup on counters in record shops across Britain as a means of promotion. As part of his Britlins exhibition, Scott King created the post-postmodern installation piece You Are Your Own Reaction (2018), referencing a line from Earl Brutus' "The SAS and the Glam That Goes with It".


== Release and reception ==

Released in June 1998 to coincide with Earl Brutus' national tour, Tonight You Are the Special One was the band's second album and sole album for Fruition Recordings. The group became victims of label upheaval upon the record's release, and as with its predecessor, it proved commercially unsuccessful and failed to chart. On the UK Singles Chart, "Come Taste My Mind", which featured a remix by Jamie Reid on the B-side, peaked at number 80 in February 1998, and "Universal Plan", which was released in May to coincide with the album and tour, reached number 91 the following month. Despite its poor sales, Tonight You Are the Special One received critical acclaim. Roy Wilkinson of Select felt that the band were able to "capture more of Britain than most bands manage in their whole careers." Though commenting that the group should be as admired for their presence as their recordings, he concluded that "the Brutus should be cherished by all." The magazine later ranked it at number 28 in their list of the year's best albums. Fiona Shepherd of The List praised the album's glam rock riffs, intense rhythms and provocative vocals, and felt that Earl Brutus' "total lack of self-consciousness about their glam racket, influences and appearances" was comparable to Rocket from the Crypt.
The group followed the album with the 1999 single "Larky", which became their final release. They performed sporadically for several years after before splitting in 2004. In the years that followed, the group became reappraised by some as one of the era's great 'lost' bands. The group featured in Spin magazine's 2009 list of "Unsung: The 100 Greatest Bands You've (Probably) Never Heard", where writer Doug Brod highlighted Tonight You Are the Special One as "Essential Listening". On 15 January 2016, remastered reissues of both Earl Brutus albums were released by Loop 3 Music. The Tonight reissue was available as a vinyl – marking the first time it was released on the format – and as a double CD featuring bonus material and extensive liner notes. Among the bonus tracks is "Superstar", which was made available on SoundCloud to promote the reissue. Marrying March's dub echo loops and Sanderson's heavy drums and Timpani percussion, it was recorded in only several hours and described by Fry as a "lost Brutus classic".
In a review of the remastered edition, Jonathan Wright of God Is in the TV wrote that the album "does not let up for a second," praising the humour, emotion and anger in the songs, "sometimes all at once," and hailing it as the band's "second perfect album in a row." Writing for Louder Than War, Ioan Humphreys highlighted the "riffs, attitude and theatricals" and felt the record's abrasive, confrontational style would "drag and suck you in to [the band's] nasty plan." He commented: "It feels very sad that these tracks are lying here waiting to be either discovered, or ignored again." Reviewing the reissue for Louder Sound, author David Stubbs commented that "The SAS and the Glam That Goes with It" exemplifies "the sort of essential waste product that the north is great at and the south can’t quite get its head around."


== Track listing ==
All songs written by Earl Brutus

"The SAS and the Glam That Goes with It" – 3:38
"Universal Plan" – 4:31
"Midland Red" – 4:10
"God, Let Me Be Kind" – 3:44
"Come Taste My Mind" – 4:11
"Second Class War" – 4:27
"Your Majesty We Are Here" – 3:59
"Don't Die Jim" – 4:16
"99P" – 3:37
"East" – 4:39
"Edelweiss" – 4:24
"Male Wife" – 2:54


=== Remastered bonus disc ===
The double-disc remastered edition names the first disc Piss and the bonus disc Off.

"Nicotine Stain" (Live)
"Superstar"
"Larky"
"TV Tower"
"William, Taste My Mind" (William Reid Remix)
"Gypsy Camp Battle"
"The Scottish"
"Teenage Opera"
"Come Taste My Mind" (Live at the Astoria 1998)
"Nice Man in a Bubble"
"England Sandwich"
"Teenage Taliban" (Demo/Live from Hammersmith Working Man's Club, 7 April 2004)


== Personnel ==
Adapted from the liner notes of Tonight You Are the Special One

Earl Brutus – writing, production
David Ball – production (track 1)
Ingo Vauk – production (track 1)
Ben Lurie – production (track 12)
Dick Meaney – production (track 12)
William Reid – production (track 12)
Scott King – design


== References ==

Xander Pang (born 2000) is a Singaporean actor who performs in theatre and film.
He debuted in theatre in 2010, in the play The Full Monty, and debuted in film in 2026, in the movie Dream Stall. He took a break from the acting scene during his study in ACS International until his graduation in 2018, acting in musicals like Late Company in 2019, Dear Evan Hansen in 2024, and Death Note: The Musical in 2026.


== Early life ==
Pang is a Singaporean who was born in 2000, to his father, actor Adrian Pang, and his mother, director Tracie Pang. He has an elder brother, a theatre actor who is a year older.  
Pang studied for an International Baccalaureate in ACS International, graduating in 2018. From 2021 to 2024, he studied psychology at the University of Cambridge.


== Career ==
In 2011, Pang played Brainy Boy in Zero Hero on Okto. In 2025, Pang said that he wanted to pursue acting for life, admiring his parents' careers and describing it as a privileged opportunity to work with them. His parents did not actively push Pang to his career.


=== In plays ===
In 2010, Pang debuted in the play The Full Monty, produced by Pangdemonium, as the son in the story. During his study for an International Baccalaureate during secondary school, in which he graduated in 2018, he was "away from the scene", studying theatre and focusing on education. However, he still studied theatre in the meantime, yearning to go back to acting, and still remained involved. Pang has acted in many other plays, such as The Lightning Thief: The Percy Jackson Musical in London, Macbeth in Singapore Repertory Theatre, Beyond Paradise.
In 2019, Pang acted in the play Late Company, with his father. The play was directed by his father and mother, which was a story that tackles difficult issues such as cyberbullying and suicide. In 2024, he acted in Dear Evan Hansen which he won ST Life Theatre's "Best Supporting Actor" for. From July 2026, Pang will act as Light Yagami in Death Note: The Musical in the Barbican Theatre, a high school student who finds a notebook with the power to kill anybody whose name is written in it.


=== In film ===
In 2026, he debuted in film with the movie Dream Stall directed by Annette Lee, as a popular food YouTuber named Preston, the love interest of the protagonist. Due to his poor Mandarin, his role was changed to have poor Mandarin skills.


== Personal life ==
Pang is less confident in Mandarin than in English, saying that he can comprehend it but gets nervous when speaking it, due to having studied in the University of Cambridge where they mainly used English. He is a foodie, which he credits his grandmother for. He does not like owning a Facebook account, saying that it "stresses [him] out" and quoting the "amount of stupidity" on the platform. He describes himself as being "sensitive" and easily affected by others' comments.


== Notes ==


== References ==


=== Secondary sources ===


=== Primary sources ===
In the text, these references are preceded by a double dagger (‡):

Cass Township is one of sixteen townships in Cass County, Iowa, United States.  As of the 2000 census, its population was 691.


== Geography ==
Cass Township covers an area of 35.67 square miles (92.4 km2) and contains one incorporated settlement, Lewis.  According to the USGS, it contains two cemeteries: Oakwood and Smith.


== References ==


== External links ==
US-Counties.com
City-Data.com

Howy is a name. Notable people with this name include:

Godfrey George Howy Irving (1867–1937), Australian army officer
Howy Parkins, American animation director
Martin Howy Irving (1831–1912), English rower and educationist
Sybil Howy Irving (1897–1973), Australian army officer

Gravesend Airport, located 2.5 miles (4.0 km) southeast of Gravesend town centre, Kent and 7.0 miles (11.3 km) west of Rochester. It was operated from 1932 until 1956. It was initially a civil airfield, and became a Royal Air Force station known as RAF Gravesend during the Second World War, when it was under the control of RAF Fighter Command during the Battle of Britain. It was the first RAF station to operate the North American Mustang III.
The airport returned to civilian use at the conclusion of the Second World War, although it remained under the ownership of the Air Ministry until its closure in 1956.


== Civil operation ==
The airport was operated by Gravesend Aviation Ltd served Gravesend and has a significant place in the history of British aviation. From 1933 to 1936 it was home to Percival Aircraft, building the famous Mew Gull racing aircraft among others, before the company moved to Luton. After 1936 Essex Aero was based on the site, and maintained the airfield's link with racing aeroplanes by preparing the de Havilland DH.88 Comets and Alex Henshaw's Percival Mew Gull that set the record for a flight from England to South Africa.
The airfield received Customs facilities in December 1933 and many European airlines made use of Gravesend as a diversionary airport when Croydon was fogged-in. These airlines included Imperial Airways, KLM, Sabena and Deutsche Luft Hansa.


== Royal Air Force ==
The Royal Air Force moved into Gravesend in 1937 when a Flying Training School began operating de Havilland Tiger Moths and Hawker Harts at the airfield. In 1942, the RAF greatly enlarged the airfield, which included major extensions to both runways – albeit still formed of grass. Throughout the Second World War, Essex Aero continued to manufacture aircraft parts at the site. Accommodation for personnel was provided nearby at Ashenbank Wood.
The company also drew up major plans for the airfield, including concreting the runways (the longest one being just over 5600 ft after the RAF extensions), a new terminal and cargo centre west of the Thong Lane side and their aircraft parts main plant to the east of Thong Lane.
When the RAF requisitioned the entire aerodrome in 1939 at the beginning of the war they made it a sector airfield for Biggin Hill, as one of the airfields of 11 Group. The first squadron to occupy Gravesend was 32 Squadron, arriving on 3 January 1940 with its Hawker Hurricane fighters, being replaced by 610 Squadron on 27 May. These were followed by another Auxiliary Squadron, 604, which operated Bristol Blenheims as night fighters from 3 July. 501 and 66 Squadrons also flew from here during the 1940 Battle of Britain, arriving on 25 July and 10 September respectively. A 501 Sqdn pilot, "Ginger" Lacey, was one of the RAF's most successful pilots during the Battle of Britain.
Many other units also occupied the station during the war years, such as 71 Squadron, which arrived 14 August 1942 for the Dieppe Raid, 92 Squadron (24 September 1941). No. 306 Polish Fighter Squadron, arriving 11 August 1943 and 65 Squadron, which arrived 29 July 1943, and was the first Squadron to be issued with the North American Mustang III in December – making Gravesend the first RAF base to operate it.
Accommodation was split between Cobham Hall (officers mess), the control tower (some pilots), and the 'Laughing Waters' restaurant (groundcrews), while aircraft were dispersed around the perimeter. Air defence was supplied by the army, and the airfield was attacked only a few times – on 2 September 1940 two soldiers were killed when a pair of bombs were dropped, and on the 4th an attack was mounted by a force of Heinkel He 111s, but was aborted. Two more attacks came, but neither managed to hit the airfield itself.
The airfield was extended later in the war to accommodate three squadrons of American fighters, and it was also used as an emergency runway for bomber aircraft returning from sorties over the continent. After the war, Gravesend Aerodrome largely returned to civilian use, with the RAF finally leaving in 1956, whereupon Gravesend airfield became a housing estate. All that there is to see now is a plaque in a local sports centre listing the names of fifteen pilots killed in action whilst flying from this small field.


=== Squadrons based for periods ===

The following squadrons were also here at some point:

Units


== Approval for civilian use ==

In 1954, the Air Ministry had to decide whether the civil airport should be retained and substantially enlarged, or the extensions east of Thong Lane be released for residential development.
Kent County Council had made it clear that the land west of Thong Lane, was identified as a Civil Airport. Additionally, Kent County Council also informed the Air Ministry, that it would neither support nor oppose enlargement, acknowledging, however, that it would as a result of any such enlargement, the site becoming designated as a fully operational international airport.
After the war, the then Gravesend Municipal Council gave planning permission to Essex Aero to take over the airport, but with severe (and unworkable) conditions. The main conditions were that the RAF extensions must be ripped up, thereby reducing the airport size by 40%; that the two runway lengths cut back to just 3000 ft; and finally, provisions that a school and associated housing should be built on parts of the airfield. Under those circumstances, Essex Aero did not continue with its scheme.


== Site today ==

The airfield site today has become a housing estate called Riverview Park; little can be identified of the original use. Leander Drive & Vigilant Way were built quite a distance in-field from the former perimeter track, which ran east–west, almost where Astra Drive now runs to the southern edge of Riverview Park. To the west and north, it followed a line almost where the existing boundary of Riverview Park Estate now stands and to the east, it ran almost adjacent to Thong Lane. The main entrance to the airport, leading to the control tower & hangars was roughly where the existing mini-roundabout in Thong Lane now is.
On the eastern side of Thong Lane, where the leisure centre and golf club now occupy the site was the eastern wartime extension to the airfield. The perimeter track ran east from Thong Lane from a point roughly opposite Vigilant Way to the south, extended towards Shorne for about half a mile, before looping northwards and then north-east towards what is now the Leisure Centre, before finally crossing Thong Lane to link up with the peri track on the west of Thong Lane roughly where Leander Drive now is situated.
The current approach road to the leisure centre does follow the line of the perimeter track.
"Cascades" Leisure Centre in Thong Lane has a plaque dedicated to the airmen of World War II who served at Gravesend Airport.  The Control Tower from the Airport was located across the road from the grounds. The Stand By Set House (Emergency Generator Building) stands in the field immediately to the north of Cascades surrounded by two modern-day barns whilst there is a small piece of the tarmac outer perimeter-track left in the fields behind Astra Drive. But this has fallen into disrepair. These are all that remain of the entire airfield. In addition, two buildings in Stacey Close off Valley Drive (The Stork at Rest Pub and the building opposite) housed the airfield's sick quarters.


== See also ==
List of former Royal Air Force stations


== References ==


=== Citations ===


=== Bibliography ===
Jefford, C.G. RAF Squadrons, a Comprehensive Record of the Movement and Equipment of all RAF Squadrons and their Antecedents since 1912. Shrewsbury, Shropshire, UK: Airlife Publishing, 2001. ISBN 1-84037-141-2.

Nir Yaniv (Hebrew: ניר יניב; born 1972) is an Israeli multidisciplinary artist.
He was active early on as a science fiction editor in Israel. In 2000 he founded the webzine of the Israeli Society for Science Fiction and Fantasy, and in 2007 he became chief editor of Chalomot Be'aspamia, Israel's only professionally printed SF&F magazine.
As an author, Yaniv's short fiction has appeared in Weird Tales, Apex Magazine, The Best of World SF and others. He collaborated with World Fantasy Award winning author Lavie Tidhar on two novels, including the "deranged sci-fi extravaganza" (per The Jewish Quarterly) The Tel Aviv Dossier and released the English language collection The Love Machine & Other Contraptions. Yaniv returned to fiction publishing in 2024 with the novel The Good Soldier, an " amiable satire of the gung-ho heroics of military sci-fi".
Yaniv has been active as a musician from early on, initially with the Israeli jazz-funk band Plutonium and more recently with the Emmy Award winning soprano Hila Plitmann. He released several independent albums, including "the first Hebrew-language SF Music themed album", The Universe in a Pita.
From 2013 he has also been making short films as a writer/director, including the animated Liftoff, a "touching, hand-illustrated piece of a man’s journey to the moon". Welcome To Your A.I. Future (2023) dealing with emergent A.I. technology, was featured in New Scientist. Loontown (also 2023), imagines "a Dystopian Los Angeles populated by sentient Balloons".


== Fiction ==


=== In Hebrew ===
Ktov Ke'shed Mi'shachat (One Hell of a Writer). Israel: Odyssey Press, 2006. A short story collection.
Retzach Bidyoni (Fictional Murder). Israel: Odyssey Press, 2009. A novel, with Lavie Tidhar.
Melech Yerushlaim (King of Jerusalem). Israel: Yaniv Publishing, 2019. a novel.


=== In English ===
The Tel Aviv Dossier. Canada: ChiZine Publications, 2009. A novel, with Lavie Tidhar.
The Love Machine & Other Contraptions. UK: Infinity Plus Books, 2012. A short story collection.
The Good Soldier. Canada: Shadowpaw Press, 2024. Novel.


=== Selected Short Stories ===
"A Wizard on the Road". Shimmer Magazine, 2006
"The Dream of the Blue Man". Weird Tales, September 2008
"A Painter, a Sheep, and a Boa Constrictor". Shimmer Magazine, 2009. Reprinted in The Year's Best Science Fiction & Fantasy: 2010  ed. Rich Horton (2010).
"Benjamin Schneider’s Little Greys". Apex Magazine, November 2009. Reprinted in The Best of World SF, ed Lavie Tidhar (2021).
"The Believers". Chizine, March 2010. Reprinted in Zion's Fiction: A Treasury of Israeli Speculative Literature, ed. Lottem & Teitelbaum.
"Undercity". Apex Magazine, August 2012.


== Music ==
The Universe in a Pita: a Hebrew science fiction rock album.
Funkapella: a concept-album using vocals and drums only, with no other instruments.
Happiness is Real: a live dance and music performance with choreographer and dancer Ilanit Tadmor.
The Voice Remains


== Filmography ==
Short film

Animated short film

Short Form Animated Series


== References ==


== External links ==
Nir Yaniv's web site
Positronish

The 2025–26 Kansas State Wildcats men's basketball team represented Kansas State University in the 2025–26 NCAA Division I men's basketball season, their 123rd basketball season. The Wildcats were led by head coach Jerome Tang for the first 27 games and interim head coach Matthew Driscoll for the remainder of the season. They played their home games in Bramlage Coliseum in Manhattan, Kansas as members of the Big 12 Conference. They finished the season 12–20, 3–15 in Big 12 play to finish in 15th place. They lost in the first round of the Big 12 tournament to BYU.
On February 15, 2026, the school fired head coach Jerome Tang. The school announced that Tang had been fired for cause, looking to avoid paying him a buyout pursuant to the terms of his contract. Assistant coach Matthew Driscoll was named the interim head coach. On March 12, the school named Belmont head coach Casey Alexander the team's new head coach.


== Previous season ==
The Wildcats finished the 2024–25 season 16–17, 9–11 in Big 12 play to finish a tie for ninth place. As the No. 10 seed in the Big 12 tournament, they defeated Arizona State in the first round before losing to Baylor in the second round.


== Offseason ==


=== Departures ===


=== Incoming transfers ===


=== Recruiting classes ===


==== 2025 recruiting class ====


== Roster ==


== Schedule and results ==

Source:


== References ==

Kassakpéré is a town in the Sérékalé arrondissement in the Borgou Department of Benin. It is an administrative division under the jurisdiction of the commune of Nikki. According to the population census in 2013, the village had a total population of 2,646.


== References ==

War is a nonfiction book authored by journalist Bob Woodward and published by Simon & Schuster on October 15, 2024.


== Contents ==
In War, Woodward compares the presidencies of Donald Trump and Joe Biden. He concludes that Trump is worse than Richard Nixon, while his assessment of Biden is more favorable. Woodward alleges that Trump sent scarce COVID-19 tests to Russian president Vladimir Putin during the pandemic. Woodward also alleges that Trump continued his relationship with Putin after his presidency ended, through as many as seven private calls. Senator Lindsey Graham attempted to persuade Trump to move on from his loss in the 2020 presidential election. Graham felt Trump's behavior was becoming more erratic, which he attributed to his legal problems.
Woodward describes Biden as frequently using profanity. He writes that, while he publicly supported Israel during the Gaza war, Biden became exasperated with Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu's handling of the conflict, feeling he had no strategy. He described Netanyahu as "a fucking liar", a "son of a bitch", and "a bad fucking guy". Biden told Netanyahu that the international community was beginning to regard Israel as a rogue state after Israel conducted an airstrike to kill the Hezbollah commander Fuad Shukr, which also killed three civilians; Netanyahu replied that Shukr was "one of the leading terrorists" and that increased aggression would make Israel more successful in negotiations. Woodward also notes that, during a meeting with Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman said he personally does not care about establishing a Palestinian state.
According to Woodward, the United States Intelligence Community uncovered Russia's plans to invade Ukraine months in advance, and Biden confronted Putin about it twice during calls in December 2021. During the second call, Putin allegedly threatened a nuclear war. Meanwhile, Ukrainian president Volodymyr Zelenskyy refused to accept the accurate intelligence, even when Kamala Harris made the case to him in person at the Munich Security Conference. According to Woodward, Biden blamed the invasion and Russo-Ukrainian war on former president Barack Obama's handling of Russia's annexation of Crimea, saying that Obama "never took Putin seriously" and "gave him a license to continue". In September 2022, US intelligence assessed there was a 50% chance that Putin would launch a nuclear strike on Ukraine; when confronted, Russian officials claimed that Ukraine was preparing to attack with a dirty bomb.
After Kabul fell to the Taliban following the American withdrawal from Afghanistan, Woodward writes, Biden received a call from former president George W. Bush expressing sympathy; Bush, in reference to the Iraq War, said he knew how it felt to "[get] fucked by [your] intel people". Woodward also reports that Biden regretted nominating Merrick Garland as Attorney General after Garland allowed the Justice Department to prosecute his son Hunter. Regarding Biden's withdrawal from the 2024 presidential election, Blinken said that Biden had been disappointed that Obama did not support him mounting a presidential campaign in 2016, and that this likely motivated his decision to immediately endorse Harris's campaign.


== Reception ==
War received positive reviews from critics. A.O. Scott of The New York Times wrote, that War is "harrowing, riveting stuff, even if you know how it will play out."


== References ==


== External links ==
Interview with Woodward on War, October 15, 2024, C-SPAN

Big Horn County is a county located in the U.S. state of Montana. As of the 2020 census, the population was 13,124. The county seat is Hardin. The county, like the river and the mountain range, is named after the bighorn sheep in the Rocky Mountains. The county was founded in 1913.
It is located on the southern boundary of the state. Most of the area is part of the Crow Indian Reservation. Reservation poverty affects the county, which is the second-poorest county in the state.


== History ==

The history and evolution of Big Horn County requires looking at it as a territorial designation, rather than a functioning civic entity. The Big Horn County first established in 1865 by the Montana Territory is not the same modernized iteration of the Big Horn County that was established in 1913, which this article will outline.


=== Territorial origins (1865) ===


==== Montana Territorial Legislative Assembly ====
Big Horn County was first established on February 2, 1865 by the first legislative assembly of the Montana Territory. It served as one of the nine foundational counties established by the legislature alongside Beaverhead, Chouteau, Deer Lodge, Gallatin, Jefferson, Edgerton, Madison, and Missoula.
On June 25, 1876, the Battle of Little Bighorn began. The Battle is also known as the Battle of the Greasy Grass to the Lakota and other Plains Indians. 
The combatants were warriors of the Lakota Sioux, Northern Cheyenne, and Arapaho tribes, battling the 7th Regiment of the US Cavalry, along with their Crow, and Arikara scouts. The battle was an overwhelming victory for the Lakota and Cheyenne. The death of Custer and his troops became a rallying point for the United States to increase their efforts to force native peoples onto reservation lands. 


== Law and government ==
The county has several jurisdictions, each with its own regulations and law enforcement agencies. The Crow and Northern Cheyenne Indian Nations are administered by the tribes. Little Bighorn Battlefield and the Big Horn Canyon National Recreation Area are regulated by the National Park Service. The remainder of the county falls under the State of Montana.


== Geography ==
According to the United States Census Bureau, the county has a total area of 5,015 square miles (12,990 km2), of which 4,995 square miles (12,940 km2) is land and 19 square miles (49 km2) (0.4%) is water. It is the fifth-largest county in Montana by land area. Most of the county's land area is Indian reservations: The Crow Indian Reservation covers 64.2 percent of its area, while the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation covers another 6.37 percent.
The county is home to the Big Horn, Pryor and Wolf mountain ranges.


=== Major highways ===


=== Adjacent counties ===


=== National protected areas ===
Bighorn Canyon National Recreation Area (part)
Little Bighorn Battlefield National Monument


=== Climate ===
According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Big Horn County has a semi-arid climate, abbreviated "BSk" on climate maps.


== Demographics ==


=== 2020 census ===
As of the 2020 census, the county had a population of 13,124. Of the residents, 33.4% were under the age of 18 and 13.5% were 65 years of age or older; the median age was 31.5 years. For every 100 females there were 96.7 males, and for every 100 females age 18 and over there were 93.6 males. 0.0% of residents lived in urban areas and 100.0% lived in rural areas.
The racial makeup of the county was 26.8% White, 0.1% Black or African American, 67.0% American Indian and Alaska Native, 0.4% Asian, 0.7% from some other race, and 4.9% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino residents of any race comprised 3.9% of the population.
There were 3,927 households in the county, of which 43.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them and 29.9% had a female householder with no spouse or partner present. About 23.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 9.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.
There were 4,522 housing units, of which 13.2% were vacant. Among occupied housing units, 64.6% were owner-occupied and 35.4% were renter-occupied. The homeowner vacancy rate was 1.1% and the rental vacancy rate was 8.8%.


=== 2010 census ===
As of the 2010 census, there were 12,865 people, 4,004 households, and 2,970 families living in the county. The population density was 2.6 inhabitants per square mile (1.0/km2). There were 4,695 housing units at an average density of 0.9 units per square mile (0.35 units/km2). The racial makeup of the county was 64.3% American Indian, 31.4% white, 0.5% Asian, 0.2% black or African American, 1.0% from other races, and 2.6% from two or more races. Those of Hispanic or Latino origin made up 4.0% of the population. In terms of ancestry, 12.1% were American, and 10.3% were German.
Of the 4,004 households, 45.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 48.8% were married couples living together, 17.3% had a female householder with no husband present, 25.8% were non-families, and 23.0% of all households were made up of individuals. The average household size was 3.18 and the average family size was 3.77. The median age was 30.5 years.
The median income for a household in the county was $36,550 and the median income for a family was $41,985. Males had a median income of $32,216 versus $27,917 for females. The per capita income for the county was $15,066. About 20.7% of families and 23.5% of the population were below the poverty line, including 32.4% of those under age 18 and 15.4% of those age 65 or over.


== Economy ==
Coal mining and agriculture play major roles in Big Horn County's economy. Farms and ranches in the county produce mainly beef cattle, sugar beets, alfalfa, and small grains.


== Politics ==
Big Horn County is generally Democratic, owing largely to its majority Native American population. It is distinguished from most other counties in rural Montana, which often lean heavily Republican. In 2024, Donald Trump carried the county by a narrow plurality, the first time a Republican won the county since Reagan in 1980.


== Communities ==


=== City ===
Hardin (county seat)


=== Town ===
Lodge Grass


=== Census-designated places ===


=== Unincorporated communities ===


=== Former communities ===
Corinth
Kirby
Quietus


== See also ==
List of lakes of Big Horn County, Montana
List of mountains in Big Horn County, Montana
National Register of Historic Places listings in Big Horn County, Montana


== References ==


== External links ==

Home page

Christopher St Lawrence, 10th Baron Howth (c. 1568–1619) was an Irish statesman and soldier of the  Elizabethan and Jacobean era. His personal charm made him a favourite of two successive English monarchs, and he was also a soldier of great courage and some ability, who fought under the Earl of Essex and Lord Mountjoy during the Nine Years' War. However, his bitter quarrels with the Lord Deputy of Ireland, his feuds with other leading families of the Anglo-Irish Pale, and his suspected involvement in the conspiracy which led to the Flight of the Earls, damaged his reputation. He is best remembered for the legend that he was kidnapped by the "Pirate Queen" Granuaile when he was a small boy.


== Early life ==
He was born about 1568, the eldest son of Nicholas, 9th Baron Howth, and his first wife Margaret, fifth daughter of Sir Christopher Barnewall of Turvey by his wife  Marion Sherle. According to the legend of Granuaile he spent his childhood at Howth Castle, although his parents lived for some years at Platten in Meath. While his father was a devout and open Roman Catholic, at a time when it was politically dangerous to admit to such beliefs, the son converted to the Protestant faith sometime before 1605: his enemies maintained this was purely a matter of expediency, not religious conviction. Certainly, in later years he was happy to form an alliance with the Catholic nobility and seems to have briefly returned to the Catholic faith in 1606–7.


== Granuaile ==
According to a celebrated legend, which probably has some basis in fact, in about the year 1576 Granuaile, the so-called Pirate Queen of Galway, arrived unannounced at Howth Castle at dinner-time, only to find the gates barred. Annoyed at the discourtesy, she took young Christopher hostage until his family apologised. To make amends, the Howth family pledged that in future the castle gates would always be open at dinner-time, and that an extra place would always be set at table for unexpected guests.


== Soldier ==
Christopher acquired a considerable reputation as a soldier, and was active on the Government side throughout the Nine Years' War, the most serious threat to the authority of the English Crown in Ireland for several generations: the rebellion was led by Hugh O'Neill, Earl of Tyrone.
In 1595 Christopher accompanied his father on an expedition against the O'Byrnes of Wicklow, and showed his courage by capturing two men. Subsequently, he spent two years in England where he was knighted. He returned to Ireland with Sir Conyers Clifford in 1597, and was given a company of cavalry. He spent much time in Offaly keeping the O'Connor clan in check: in addition, he was appointed commander of the garrison of Cavan, with power to execute martial law, and was praised for his good services there.


== Friendship with the Earl of Essex ==

When Robert Devereux, 2nd Earl of Essex, arrived in Ireland to put down the rebellion of Hugh O'Neill, (a task in which he was to fail), Christopher served with him and became a personal friend. He distinguished himself at Athy by swimming the river Barrow to retrieve some stolen horses, and returned with the horses and the heads of two thieves. He was present at the siege of Cahir Castle, and again distinguished himself by repelling a sortie by the garrison. He also accompanied Essex on his ill-fated expedition to Ulster. Essex wrote of him as a "dear and worthy friend" and chose him as one of his few companions for his disastrous return to the English Court, after he had agreed peace terms with Hugh O'Neill, thus effectively conceding the Crown's surrender to O'Neill.
Christopher had already gained a reputation for being quarrelsome and hot-tempered: in October 1598 he was rumoured to have murdered Sir Samuel Bagenal over a trifling insult, though the story has no basis in fact. It is likely that he did offer to fight Essex's main opponents at Court, Sir Robert Cecil and Lord Grey de Wilton, and caused controversy when he publicly pledged Essex's health. On his first appearance in Court, he was so drunk that he was arrested overnight. Summoned before the Privy Council on the charge of having threatened Cecil, he denied it and was let off with an order to return to Ireland. To the jibe that he was an Irishman, he replied with unexpected dignity with a description of the awkward position of the Anglo-Irish: "an Irishman in England, an Englishman in Ireland", and asked that he be judged only for his service to the Crown. Elizabeth I consented to receive him, and though she scolded him for his "scornful journey", he clearly made a good impression on her. She granted his request to postpone his return, ordered payment of his arrears of wages, and on his return to Ireland she wrote that he was one who was "well deserved in her service". He was also reconciled with Robert Cecil.


== Service with Mountjoy ==
In 1600 he was sent to assist Sir George Carew in his military campaign in Connaught. His reputation as a soldier grew, but so did his reputation for violence: he was said to have engaged in a brawl with Thomas Butler, 10th Earl of Ormond and Donogh O'Brien, 4th Earl of Thomond. The supposed cause was that Christopher was over-friendly with Ormond's wife (presumably this was his third wife, Helena Barry, whom he had married in  1601). The downfall and execution of Essex did not, as might have been expected, ruin Howth's career.

When Lord Mountjoy arrived in Ireland, charged with the task of ending the Nine Years' War, Christopher accompanied him on an expedition against the O'Mores of Laois. In October 1600 he fought at the Battle of Moyry Pass and was wounded. He was Mountjoy's right-hand man in central Ireland during the following months, although he later complained that his services were ill-rewarded. In August 1601 he was in Ulster; when the news came of the Spanish landing he was sent to intercept Hugh Roe O'Donnell, but failed in the attempt. At the Battle of Kinsale, which marked the climax of the Nine Years' War, he was entrusted with preventing the Irish and Spanish armies from joining, and was successful in his mission.
He is next heard of in Dublin, and then briefly became governor of Monaghan. On the submission of Hugh O'Neill to Lord Mountjoy, which brought the Nine Years' War to an end, his garrison was reduced. It appears that he was accused of treasonable correspondence with O'Neill, and wrote to Robert Cecil asking for leave to come to London to clear his name. He has quarrelled bitterly with his subordinate commander, Laurence Esmonde, 1st Baron Esmonde, and was accused, rightly or wrongly, of having illegally hanged an English servant. Complaints about his conduct led to his summary dismissal as Governor of Monaghan. He was still said to be troubled by the downfall of Essex, and also gravely embarrassed by the pro-Catholic activities of his father, who was now openly campaigning for the repeal of the Penal Laws.
Meeting with no response, either to his demands to be allowed to clear his name or to his request for a sign of royal favour, he decided to seek employment abroad, a decision no doubt made easier by the recent break-up of his marriage to Elizabeth Wentworth. The new Lord Deputy, Sir Arthur Chichester, was persuaded to plead on Christopher's behalf with Cecil, urging that he be given employment in Ireland, but nothing was done for him and he entered the service of Archduke Albert in the Spanish Netherlands. Chichester was concerned that other young nobles would follow his example, but in the event, his foreign service was cut short by his father's death in May 1607. He returned home from  Brussels, to find that he had inherited an estate severely encumbered by debt.


== Flight of the Earls ==
In the chain of events which led to the Flight of the Earls in 1607, the new Lord Howth certainly played some part, though what precisely it was remains a mystery. Even before his return to Ireland, he was aware of a conspiracy involving Hugh O'Neill, Rory O'Donnell, 1st Earl of Tyrconnell, Randal MacDonnell, 1st Earl of Antrim, and Richard Nugent, 1st Earl of Westmeath. On a flying visit to  England, he revealed part of the conspiracy to the Privy Council, who informed Chichester that he should examine an individual called A.B.

On learning that A.B. was Howth himself, Chichester, who had by now developed a very low opinion of him, was inclined to regard his story as an invention, until the flight of Tyrone and Tyrconnell confirmed that at least a part of Howth's story was true. Since he was clearly involved in the plot to some extent, he was arrested and questioned further; Chichester called his replies "half-witted". His cousin George St Lawrence was prepared to testify that Christopher has been a prime mover in the plot: George was sentenced to death for treason for his own part in the conspiracy, but later received a royal pardon, causing his cousin, understandably, to fear for his own life. He was briefly imprisoned in Dublin and then sent to London. Howth, who for all his faults had considerable charm and eloquence, convinced the Privy Council of his innocence, and won the favour of King James I, although his persistent demands for a pension were rebuffed. He returned to Ireland in March 1608.
Howth's revelations had an influence on the outbreak of the 1608 O'Doherty's Rebellion by creating a sense of alarm about a major conspiracy amongst the Gaelic lords of Ulster. In this tense situation, an innocent wood-cutting expedition by Sir Cahir O'Doherty was mistaken for the beginning of a wider conspiracy by local authorities. O'Doherty's sense of persecution after this incident led him to rebel, and he burnt Derry to the ground.


== Feuds ==
At home in Ireland, Howth found his reputation in ruins: as he sadly wrote to the King, the favour which James showed him merely deepened his disgrace in the eyes of his neighbours, most of whom regarded him with deep suspicion. He claimed to be in fear of his life, and to be unable to trust even his few remaining friends.
Unwisely, he proceeded to quarrel with several other leading figures of the Pale. Sir Garret Moore, 1st Viscount Moore, was a connection of Howth by marriage and had previously been friendly with him; but Moore now turned against him, (the precise cause of the quarrel is unclear) calling him a coward, a braggart and a liar. Howth in turn accused Moore of plotting treason with Hugh O'Neill, and, bizarrely, of trying to raise the Devil. Although Moore had undoubtedly been friendly with O'Neill, Howth was quite unable to prove the charge of treason, while the charge of necromancy was simply laughed at. Chichester said that no one would condemn a horse-boy, let alone a knight, on such evidence. The case was transferred to England and Moore was cleared of all charges. Howth was however allowed to go to England, and again his personal charm won him the goodwill of James I, whose fondness for attractive young men was the subject of much gossip.
The feud between Howth and Moore soon extended to Moore's in-laws, Thomas Jones, Archbishop of Dublin and the Archbishop's son Lord Ranelagh. Ranelagh's description of Howth as "a brave man among cowards" provoked a violent affray in a tennis court at  Thomas St. in Dublin in May 1609, in which a Mr. Barnewall was killed. Howth claimed that Barnewall, who was a cousin of his on his mother's side, was killed defending him: Ranelagh claimed that the dead man had intervened to restore order and was killed by Howth's men. Chichester, who happened to be nearby, heard of the affair: he took Jones's side and had Howth arrested at once. The inquest found a verdict of manslaughter: Howth, under examination by the Irish Council, claimed to be the victim of a conspiracy to murder him whose members included Chichester, Moore and the Jones family. The Council found that Howth had no basis whatsoever for his charges "only talk behind men's backs and loose observations", and that he was acting out of malice towards his fellow nobles. The Council ordered him, as a man who could not control his passions, to remain at home and mend his behaviour, "for his Majesty much disliked his proud carriage towards the supreme officials of the Kingdom". He was strictly forbidden to go to London, but did so. After a brief spell in the Fleet Prison, he obtained a royal audience and yet again gained the King's favour. Chichester was reprimanded for showing undue bias in the Howth-Moore feud,  and thereafter made at least an outward show of friendship to Howth.


== Last years and death ==
Howth's later years were peaceful enough, apart from increasing money troubles. He sat in the Irish Parliament of 1613–5: he made some overtures to the Catholic opposition,  but the Crown does not seem to have taken them seriously. His relations with Archbishop Jones improved and in 1614 they worked together to raise a free gift in Dublin for the King, Howth as a good example to his fellow nobles contributing £100. He married his eldest son into the powerful "New English" Montgomery family, no doubt hoping to benefit from the Plantation of Ulster, and also to alleviate his money troubles, as his new daughter-in-law was a wealthy heiress. He died on 24 October 1619, but for some reason was not buried until late January 1620.


== Family ==
His married life was unhappy although, unlike his grandfather the 8th Baron, who was notorious for domestic cruelty, he was never accused of ill-treating his wife. She was Elizabeth Wentworth, daughter of Sir John Wentworth of Little Horkesley and Gosfield Hall, Essex, and his first wife Elizabeth Heydon. She was a sister of John Wentworth, High Sheriff of Essex.
The marriage may well have been a love affair, although it was also advantageous to Howth, as the Wentworths were substantial landowners in Essex, and Elizabeth's brother John, though he did not play a leading role in politics, married a granddaughter of Edward Seymour, 1st Duke of Somerset, and left his son a "splendid inheritance".  Possibly the breakdown of the marriage was due to a similarity of temperament, since Elizabeth was also quarrelsome, referring in her will to a long dispute with her elder son, for which she now graciously forgave him. The couple married about 1595 but had separated by 1605. Howth was ordered by the  Privy Council to pay his wife £100 by way of alimony; the amount was later reduced but still placed a heavy financial burden on him, a cause of even more contention and ill-feeling between husband and wife. In 1614 he tried unsuccessfully to stop payment altogether. They had three children:

Nicholas St Lawrence, 11th Baron Howth
Thomas, who settled in Suffolk and married Elinor Lynne
Margaret, who married firstly William FitzWilliam and secondly Michael Berford (or Birford).
His widow remarried Sir Robert Newcomen, first of the Newcomen baronets of Keenagh, County Longford, and died in 1627.


== Character ==
Those who knew Christopher St Lawrence best, like Chichester and Moore, often judged him most harshly, describing him as foolish, treacherous, quarrelsome, violent and irresponsible. Clearly, he lacked the political skills of his father, who retained the respect of both his peers and the Crown throughout his career: arguably he inherited a strain of mental instability from his grandfather. On the other hand, Christopher's courage and military skill were never seriously disputed: and a man who gained the friendship of Elizabeth I, James I, Robert Cecil, Essex and Mountjoy cannot have entirely lacked good qualities.


== References ==

Vindullus is a genus of huntsman spiders erected by Eugène Louis Simon in 1880. Though often considered a synonym of Olios, it has been validated as its own genus.


== Species ==
As of September 2019 it contains eight species, found in South America and Guatemala:

Vindullus angulatus Rheims & Jäger, 2008 – Peru, Ecuador, Brazil
Vindullus concavus Rheims & Jäger, 2008 – Brazil
Vindullus fugiens (O. Pickard-Cambridge, 1890) – Guatemala
Vindullus gibbosus Rheims & Jäger, 2008 – Peru, Suriname
Vindullus gracilipes (Taczanowski, 1872) (type) – French Guiana, Brazil
Vindullus guatemalensis (Keyserling, 1887) – Guatemala
Vindullus kratochvili Caporiacco, 1955 – Venezuela
Vindullus undulatus Rheims & Jäger, 2008 – Colombia, Venezuela


== References ==

Visa requirements for Sudanese citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Sudan. As of 2026, Sudanese citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 41 countries and territories, ranking the Sudanese passport 91st in terms of travel freedom according to the Henley Passport Index.
After the 2023 Sudan conflict, obtaining a visa or a security clearance is required for all Sudanese citizens, including women and kids, to enter Egypt.


== Visa requirements map ==


== Visa requirements ==


== Dependent, Disputed, or Restricted territories ==
Unrecognized or partially recognized countries

Dependent and autonomous territories


== See also ==
Visa policy of Sudan
Sudanese passport
List of nationalities forbidden at border


== References and notes ==
References

Notes

Moyesset (locally [ˌmɔiˈɛsït]) is a townland lying within the civil parish of Kilcronaghan, County Londonderry, Northern Ireland. It lies in the centre of the parish, and is bounded by the townlands of; Calmore, Clooney, Gortamney, Killytoney, and Tobermore.  It was apportioned to the Drapers company and Crown freeholds.
The townland was part of Tobermore electoral ward of the former Magherafelt District Council, however in 1926 it was part of Tobermore district electoral division as part of the Maghera division of Magherafelt Rural District. It was also part of the historic barony of Loughinsholin.


== History ==


== See also ==
Kilcronaghan
List of townlands in Tobermore
Tobermore


== References ==

Night Out may refer to:


== Film and TV ==
Night Out (film), Australian film
"Night Out" (The Office), a 2008 television episode
"The Night Out" (Outnumbered), a 2008 television episode


== Music ==
Night Out (album) by Ellen Foley
A Night Out, 1961 album by Machito
"Night Out", song by Paul McCartney from Red Rose Speedway
"The Night Out", song by Martin Solveig from his album Smash


== See also ==
A Night Out (disambiguation)
Boys Night Out (disambiguation)
Girls' Night Out (disambiguation)

Penywaun (also in Welsh: Pen-y-waun) is a community, electoral ward and north-western suburb of Aberdare in the Cynon Valley within the county borough of Rhondda Cynon Taf, Wales. At the 2011 census, the population of the ward was registered as 3,063.


== Etymology ==
The term "Penywaun" derives from two common Welsh toponyms "Pen" meaning top or head and "Gwaun" meaning moorland. Writing in 1887, Thomas Morgan states that the toponym (which he spells "Penwaun") indicates the end of the moor known as the Hirwaun Gwrgant or Gwrgan's "Waun".


== Background ==
Much of the local housing was built by the local Aberdare urban district council after the Second World War in several stages, starting with simple pre-fabricated houses.
Shops and businesses trading in the village include a cafe, newsagents, hairdresser, a traditional fish and chip shop, and three grocery-type stores, one opposite the Colliers Arms (now closed) pub .  Most of the retail is in a retail precinct ('the Shopping Centre').


== Schools ==
Primary Schools
Penywaun Primary School, near Coed Glas, educates approximately 252 pupils, aged 3 to 11.
Main secondary education schools are:
Ysgol Gyfun Rhydywaun a Welsh Medium comprehensive school, serving the village since 1995.
Aberdare Community School
St. John's The Baptist High School Of Aberdare.


== Culture ==

Saint Winifred Church - see photograph - (Church in Wales) is in the centre of the village. St Lleurwg Church in Hirwaun is the sister church sharing (co-serving) the Parish of Hirwaun.
Penywaun Workingmen's Club and Institute (PWCI) began in the village in 1959.  Many successful singers and entertainers have performed here, including Sir Tom Jones shortly before his rise to stardom in the 1960s.


== Politics ==
Penywaun is also an electoral ward for Rhondda Cynon Taf County Borough Council. The County Borough Councillor until 2012 was Glyn Roberts (Labour), a long-serving Director of the Tower Colliery company.


== Sport, leisure and recreation ==
Penywaun F.C. plays soccer regularly in the Aberdare Valley Premier Division.
Penywaun is also home to an award-winning Tang Soo Do group which meet regularly at Penywaun Community Centre.
Two allotments (for gardening) are managed locally by Rhondda Cynon Taf Council.
Aberdare Park and Dare Valley Country Park are within two miles.


== Notable people ==
Kim Howells - Welsh Labour politician and MP for Pontypridd, born in Merthyr Tydfil, but raised in Penywaun
Dai Young (rugby footballer) - Lived in Penywaun for many years with his parents


== References ==


== External links ==
2001 Census data
Penywaun Online, the local community magazine
Penywaun on Flickr, a photo sharing website

Horst Beyer is a Paralympian athlete from Germany competing mainly in category P42 pentathlon events.	


== Biography ==
He competed for West Germany in the 1988 Summer Paralympics in Seoul, South Korea.  There he finished sixth in the men's Discus throw - A2A9 event, finished fifth in the men's Javelin throw - A2A9 event and finished sixth in the men's Shot put - A2A9 event.  Following reunification he competed for Germany in the 1992 Summer Paralympics in Barcelona, Spain.  There he won a gold medal in the men's Discus throw - THS2 event and finished fourth in the men's Pentathlon - PS3 event.  He also competed at the 1996 Summer Paralympics in Atlanta, United States.    There he won a gold medal in the men's Pentathlon - P42 event, a silver medal in the men's Discus throw - F42 event and a bronze medal in the men's Shot put - F42 event.  He also competed at the 2000 Summer Paralympics in Sydney, Australia.    There he won a bronze medal in the men's Pentathlon - P42 event, finished sixth in the men's Discus throw - F42 event and finished seventh in the men's Shot put - F42 event.


== External links ==
Horst Beyer at the International Paralympic Committee

Duarte Manuel de Almeida Bello (26 July 1921 – 3 June 1994) was a Portuguese sailor who competed at the 1948, 1952, 1956, 1960 and 1964 Olympics. He won a silver medal in the Swallow class in 1948, together with his brother Fernando Pinto Coelho Bello, and placed fourth in 1952 and 1956.
Bello also raced Star class keelboats, winning silver medals at the 1953 and 1962 World Championship, and a bronze in 1952. He was known as an equipment innovator who invented several devices, including automatic "Bello bailers" in 1954, and the circular boom-vang track at the early 1960s.


== Early childhood ==
Duarte was born in colonial Maputo to Duarte Mendes de Almeida Bello and Maria do Pilar Pinto Coelho on 26 July 1921. Through a clerical error, the M which should have been Mendes as per his father became Manuel.
At 7 years of age his family moved back to Portugal, where he began sailing the Sharpie.
In 1943, he married Maria Antonia Carneiro Bustorff Silva, daughter of one of Portugal's most prominent lawyers of the time, as well as a sailor. He was a Civil Engineer by education and worked in the national rail line Comboios de Portugal.


== Olympic and World Championships ==
1947 Star World Championships – 10th place (with F. Bello)
1948 Star World Championships – 5th place (with F. Bello)
1948 Olympics – Swallow – Silver Medal (with F. Bello)
1951 Star World Championships – 9th place (with F. Bello)
1952 Star World Championships – Bronze (with F. Bello)
1952 Olympics – 5.5 Metre – 4th (with F. Bello & Júlio Gourinho)
1953 Star World Championships – Silver (with João Miguel Tito)
1954 Star World Championships – 6th place (with J. Tito)
1955 Star World Championships – 9th place (with J. Silva)
1956 Star World Championships – 7th place (with J. Silva)
1956 Olympics – Star – 4th place (with José Bustorff Silva)
1957 Star World Championships – 28th place (with M. Ricciardi)
1960 Star World Championships – 12th place (with Oliveir)
1960 Olympics – 5.5 Metre – 16th place (with Fernando Bello & J. Gourinho)
1962 Star World Championships – Silver (with F. Bello)
1963 Star World Championships – 27th place (with F. Bello)
1964 Olympics – Star – 8th place (with F. Bello)
1965 Star World Championships – 19th place (with F. Bello)
1966 Star World Championships – 41st place (with Antonio Rocha)
1972 Star World Championships – 31st place (with Manuel Espirito Santo)
1973 Star World Championships – 26th place (with Duke Robinson)
1974 Star World Championships – 18th place (with F. Bello)
1983 Star World Championships – 65th place (with Rui Roque de Pinho)
1986 Star World Championships – 70th place (with Fernando B. Bello)


== References ==


== External links ==
Duarte de Almeida Bello at World Sailing
Duarte de Almeida Bello at Olympedia

Puerto Errado is a linear fresnel reflector solar thermal power plant, located in the Region of Murcia of Spain. Puerto Errado 1 is 1.4 megawatts (MW), and was the first Fresnel-reflector, solar power plant connected to the grid, in March 2009. It covers an area of 5 hectares (12 acres). Puerto Errado 2 added 30 MW in February, 2012. It covers an area of 70 hectares (173 acres) with 28 rows of mirrors, and has an aperture area of 302,000 square metres (3,250,700 sq ft). Power is being sold for 26.8717 Euro cents per kWh for the first 25 years and 21.5495 Euro cents/kWh thereafter.
Puerto Errado 2 covers a mirror surface of 302,000 m2 and is the world's largest Fresnel power plant in operation. The German company Novatec Solar has provided the Fresnel technology, and five Swiss utilities, EBL and IWB of Basel, EKZ and EWZ of Zurich, as well as EWB of Bern, are the owners of the plant.


== See also ==

List of solar thermal power stations
Renewable energy in the European Union
Solar power in Spain
Solar thermal energy
Wind power in Spain


== References ==

White Fungus is an arts magazine and project based in Taichung City, Taiwan. Founded by brothers Ron Hanson and Mark Hanson in Wellington, New Zealand in 2004, it began as an intended one-off, photocopied political zine. Over time, the publication evolved into a widely distributed print magazine with an international readership.
The name of the publication comes from a can of "white fungus" the Hansons discovered in their local Taiwan supermarket in 2003. Each cover of the magazine is derived from a scan of that can. In 2009, White Fungus relocated to Taichung City, where it has since been based.


== History ==
The first issue of White Fungus was published in October 2004 as a protest against the building of an inner-city bypass in Wellington, New Zealand. The proposed road project threatened to demolish heritage buildings and displace artists from their studios. The project had been successfully opposed by Wellingtonians for more than 40 years but was now being vigorously pushed forward by Mayor Kerry Prendergast, who is married to one of the city's biggest property developers, Rex Nicholls.
White Fungus attacked Prendergast's leadership, listed her financial holdings, and explored the history of Wellington's Te Aro area which was at risk due to the proposed road. The publication also profiled various groups of artists who were being evicted from their studios due to inner-city development, while Prendergast was simultaneously branding Wellington as New Zealand's "creative capital".
The publication was produced and distributed in the lead-up to Wellington's 2004 local body elections. It was published anonymously with articles written using pseudonyms. Copies of the first issue were printed on a photocopier, wrapped in Christmas paper, and thrown through the entrances of businesses across the city.
Wellington community newspaper the Cook Strait News reported on the stunt and the mayor's response.
"Ms Prendergast has dismissed the magazine, gift-wrapped in Christmas paper and anonymously delivered to Cuba Street shops on Wednesday and Thursday. Ziggurat retail assistant Kate Bryant says: 'It was hurled in through the door by three guys, who then disappeared down the street.'
"Ms Prendergast told the Cook Strait News she welcomes intelligent and reasoned debate but not of the sort contained in White Fungus. 'I will not dignify with comment the untruths, lies and innuendo contained in White Fungus. They don't even have the integrity to say who they are,' she says. She says the only message contained in the magazine she agrees with is the importance of voting."
Prendergast was re-elected and the road was built. The first issue of White Fungus is now on permanent display at Wellington Museum as part of its exhibit about the city's protest movement against the bypass.
After an impactful beginning, the Hansons decided to continue the publication and evolve it into an arts magazine. The next two issues were also photocopied with the fourth issue being the first to be offset printed. Wellington art dealer Peter McLeavey was the first to place an advertisement in the publication, beginning in the second issue. McLeavey would continue to place advertisements in White Fungus, which he drew by hand or produced on his typewriter, until his passing in 2015. One of these advertisements was republished in Jill Trevelyan's 2013 biography Peter McLeavey: The Life and Times of a New Zealand Art Dealer.
White Fungus began building an international audience with its fifth issue in 2006. San Francisco bookstore City Lights was the first to stock the publication outside of New Zealand. In 2007, White Fungus signed a distribution deal with Ontario-based company Disticor to distribute the magazine in Canada and the US. White Fungus would subsequently work with several different distributors in Australia, New Zealand, the UK, Europe, South Korea, and Taiwan before signing a global distribution deal with London company WhiteCirc in 2013.
A pivotal moment came for the magazine when the Hansons met Taipei artist Yao Jui-Chung who visited Wellington to participate in the exhibition Islanded at Adam Art Gallery in 2006. The Hansons had spent four years living in Taiwan before beginning the magazine. Yao urged the Hansons to return to Taiwan. Meeting Hong Kong artist Lee Kit during his residency in Wellington in 2007 also stimulated the Hansons' interest in returning to Asia.
In 2009, White Fungus relocated to Taichung City, Taiwan. The Hansons have continued publishing White Fungus in Taiwan while becoming immersed in the local arts scene.  As well as publishing, they have directed interdisciplinary art events in Taiwan and throughout the world. In 2020, the Hansons served as international monitors of the Taipei Art Awards at Taipei Fine Arts Museum. 


== Magazine content ==
White Fungus covers a diverse range of subjects spanning art, music, politics, and history. The magazine has featured interviews with influential cultural figures. White Fungus editor Ron Hanson's interview with Carolee Schneemann in the magazine's 12th issue was subsequently republished in the 2015 monograph Unforgivable: Carolee Schneemann by Black Dog Publishing. Additionally, the publication offers in-depth explorations into various themes, including bats, art scenes in Indonesia and Hungary, The East German Stasi, Folk religion in Taiwan, Animal music, New Zealand's Pink and White Terraces, the prospect of human settlements on Mars, The global travels of Nicolai Michoutouchkine and Aloï Pilioko, and the deep fascination of Dolly Parton
The magazine features coverage of Taiwan's visual art and experimental music scenes, with a particular focus on the development of experimental music and sound art on the island following the end of martial law in Taiwan in 1987.
White Fungus has featured articles on a number of significant composers and musicians. The magazine has included articles by notable New Zealand art writers and artists, including Tao Wells.


== The Subconscious Restaurant ==
In 2012, White Fungus began a new publication and event series titled The Subconscious Restaurant, named after a former restaurant in Taipei which is now closed.
The first issue of The Subconscious Restaurant was commissioned by the Christchurch art gallery The Physics Room. It focused on experimental music in Taiwan and New Zealand, including an article by Bruce Russell about the history of DIY music in New Zealand. The publication was launched with a series of events in Christchurch, Wellington, Auckland, and Hamilton introducing Taiwanese noise music and sound art pioneer Wang Fujui to New Zealand audiences. There was also a solo exhibition, Sound Dots, by Wang at The Physics Room.
The second issue of The Subconscious Restaurant focused on the underground experimental music and art scenes in Taiwan. This was the first bilingual (English and Chinese) edition of the publication; subsequent issues are also bilingual. It was released in 2014 through events in Beijing, Hong Kong, and Macau.

The Subconscious Restaurant #3 was commissioned in 2014 by curator Kit Hammonds on the occasion of the inaugural edition of Index Art Book Fair in Guadalajara, México. This issue focused on art and music from México and Taiwan, including poetry by Hsia Yu. The publication was released at the fair with a reading in Chinese, English and Spanish of Hsia Yu’s poems, accompanied by a live mariachi band. The event was organized by Hammonds and Nick Yeck-Stauffer.
The Subconscious Restaurant #4 was commissioned in 2015 by the New Zealand Commerce and Industry Office in Taipei on the occasion of New Zealand being the Guest of Honor at the Taipei International Book Exhibition. This issue introduced New Zealand art, literature, and culture to Taiwan. It was released at an event at Huashan 1914 Creative Park in Taipei featuring New Zealand musicians Campbell Kneale, Jeff Henderson, and Greg Malcolm.
The fifth issue of "The Subconscious Restaurant" was commissioned by the Taichung Art Museum in 2025 on the occasion of its grand opening. It forms part of a collaborative project connected to the museum’s inaugural exhibition, "A Call of All Beings: See you tomorrow, same time, same place" (13 December 2025–12 April 2026).
On 7 March 2026, "White Fungus" held the first-ever event at the museum’s open-air rooftop Culture Forest. The programme included sound performances by Wang Fujui, Yenting Hsu, Nick Tsai, and Lai Shi-Chao, a live performance by Tokyo-based  artist HANASAKI Kaya, and a DJ set by Lim Giong incorporating field recordings from his personal archive.  


== Exhibitions ==
White Fungus has been featured in several exhibitions, including:

Kiosk: Modes of Multiplication (2007), Artists Space, New York
Motto Storefront (2010) at Artspeak, Vancouver
De Zines (2010) at La Casa Encendida, Madrid
Millennium Magazines (2012) at the Museum of Modern Art (MoMA), New York
Facing Pages (2012) at the Dutch Art Institute, Arnhem
Zines aus Neuseeland (2012) at the Weltkulturen Museum, Frankfurt
Mag Is In (2012) at Casa del Pingone, Turin
The Light of Independence (2012) at the Guangdong Times Museum, Guangzhou (The Hansons gave a talk at the museum as part of the exhibition program.)
Mag Dossier 01 (2012–2013) at the Visual Artists Association, Municipal Garden of Nicosia, Cyprus
TAMIZDAT (2013) at Family Business, New Holland, Saint Petersburg
Small Press (2014) at Ramp Gallery, Hamilton
Édition Florale (2014) by Collectif Blanc, Nomad Nation, Montreal
Photobookshow Malmö (2014) at Vasli Souza, Malmö
The Editorial (2016) at Taipei Fine Arts Museum
Publishing Against the Grain (2017-ongoing) by Independent Curators International (Exhibition debuted at the Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa, Capetown in 2017 and has since toured internationally)
The Novembre Lounge (2023) at Low Classic, Yaksu, Seoul

In 2010, White Fungus created work for the exhibition An Imaginary Archive at Enjoy Contemporary Art Space in Wellington, New Zealand. Organized by Gregory Sholette, the exhibition featured an archive of imaginary—“what if”—novels, brochures, catalogs, pamphlets, newsletters, and similar publications. The archive presented an alternative vision of the realities our society might inhabit, had the world been shaped differently. White Fungus created covers for the unrealized third and fourth issues of its zine Blank Canvas. The evolving exhibition was later installed at 126 Artist-run Gallery, Galway, Ireland (2011); Center for Contemporary Art, Graz, Austria (2013); Les Kurbas Center, Kyiv, Ukraine (2014); White Box Project Space, Friedrichshafen, Germany (2013); and Institute of Contemporary Art, Philadelphia (2015).
In 2012, White Fungus had a solo exhibition, The Consumers of the Future, at Te Pātaka Toi Adam Art Gallery in Wellington, New Zealand. The exhibition featured a series of three posters, remixing Wellington City Council publicity materials together with a quote by the New Zealand Prime Minister and former Merrill Lynch currency trader, John Key: “Our children are important... They’re the consumers of the future.” The Consumers of the Future was a commissioned project by White Fungus that accompanied the exhibitions We Will Work With You! Wellington Media Collective 1978-1998, and Martha Rosler, The Bowery in Two Inadequate Descriptive Systems.


== Residencies ==
In 2013, White Fungus was the magazine in residence at Kadist Art Foundation in San Francisco. During its time in the Bay Area, White Fungus released its 13th issue with events at Kadist and The Lab. This issue includes an article entitled "The First Woman on Mars", written by American writer and independent scholar Ron Drummond. He gave a reading of his article at the Kadist event and engaged in a conversation with Science Fiction author Kim Stanley Robinson about the viability and desirability of humans living on Mars.


== Awards ==
In 2016, White Fungus founders Ron Hanson and Mark Hanson received the inaugural Special Achievement for Contribution to the New Zealand-Taiwan Relationship at the ANZCHAM Business Awards in Taipei. The award was presented to the Hansons by Taiwan's then Vice Minister of Economic Affairs Yang Wei-fuu.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Interview by Paul Holdengräber, Quarantine Tapes
White Fungus editor Ron Hanson talks to Jim Mora about moving to Taiwan, Radio New Zealand

The Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) (Urdu: پاک فوج کا شعبۂ تعلقاتِ عامہ) is the media and public relations wing of the Pakistan Armed Forces. It broadcasts and coordinates military news and information to the country's civilian media and the civic society.
The ISPR directorate serves the purpose of aiming to strengthen public relations with the civic society and civil society through interacting with the media. The directorate also works as the principal voice of the Pakistan's military, with its director-general serving as the official spokesperson of the armed forces.


== History ==
The Directorate of the Inter–Services Public Relations (ISPR) was established in 1949 with army colonel Shahbaz Khan becoming its first director-general. The ISPR operates as a unified public relations system for the Pakistan Armed Forces, which includes army, air force, navy, and marines. The ISPR manages the public relations requirement of the armed forces, and is staffed with the combined personnel of the military along with civilian officers. It plays an important role for gathering a national support for the armed forces at the public level. The ISPR also aims to strengthen support for the military's assigned contingency operations while undermining the perceived stature of the adversary.
In views of US army colonel John Adache, the ISPR interfaces between the armed forces, civil media, and the civic society. Furthermore, the ISPR also formulates the media policy of the unified armed forces, and aims to safeguard the military interests of the armed forces from negative sentiment. The ISPR also monitors international and domestic media, surveying the nature of international reporting regarding Pakistan's military issues.
On a regular basis, the ISPR broadcasts televised news regarding the strategic operations in foreign and domestic areas. In Pakistan's military staff appointments and assignments, the ISPR is often perceived as one of the most prestigious directorates of Pakistan Armed Forces.
Its executive authority, a director-general, is a chief military spokesperson of the Pakistan Armed Forces.


=== Reorganization ===
In 2024, the ISPR underwent reorganization and expansion. Two two-star Major-general rank officers were appointed in the ISPR to handle foreign or strategic communication and domestic media. This will be the first time that ISPR will be permanently headed by an officer of the rank of Lieutenant General instead of Major General, and for the first time, two Major Generals will be appointed in ISPR.


== Operations ==
ISPR is responsible for garnering national support for the armed forces as well as strengthening their resolve to accomplish the assigned mission while undermining the will of the adversary.
It also acts as an interface between the armed forces, the media and the public. It formulates much of the media policy of Pakistan's military, safeguards the armed forces from negative influences and monitors both international and domestic media.


== Principal media network ==
On a regular basis, the ISPR releases televised press releases on ongoing military exercises and notifies the civilian media about the strategic arsenal tests.
Apart from functioning as the public relations body of the armed forces, the ISPR handles exclusive dissemination of information regarding Pakistan's ongoing military contingency operations.


== Media productions ==

Since the 1990s, the ISPR has been producing mini-series, drama, and films on military fiction. The first ISPR drama was Sunehray Din which was released in 1991. Some of the most famous dramas of ISPR include Ehd-e-Wafa, Waar, Shahpar, Ek Thi Marium and Sinf-e-Aahan. ISPR also made its first animated series Team Muhafiz in collaboration with Geo Entertainment which broadcast in 2022. Apart from dramas, the ISPR has also released many songs with the first one being titled "Rang Layega Shaheedon Ka Lahoo". ISPR has also released documentary films with the one being The Glorious Resolve, released in 2018.
Green Entertainment or Green TV, a Pakistani entertainment television channel, was launched reportedly under the management of the ISPR on July 10, 2023, having begun test broadcasts on 28 April. The channel's motto "Kyun Kay Main Green Hoon" (lit. 'Because I'm Green'), was released as a patriotic song upon its launch. Composed by Sahir Ali Bagga, it features several singers including Abida Parveen, Atif Aslam, Rahat Fateh Ali Khan, Shafqat Amanat Ali, Asim Azhar, Gul Panra, Ali Azmat. The channel is operated through a registered company called Al-Kamal Media and is licensed by PEMRA. The channel has released numerous Pakistani television dramas. However, in October 2024, Green Entertainment CEO Fasih Ur Rehman denied any affiliation with the ISPR and said that it was a privately owned business.


== List of Directors General ==


== See also ==
Pakistan Armed Forces
Media of Pakistan


== References ==


== External links ==

Inter-Services Public Relations at the Internet Archive

The Southern Africa Association for the Advancement of Science (S2A3 or S2A3) is a learned society, originally known as the South African Association for the Advancement of Science (SAAAS). Established in 1902, its principal aim is to increase the public awareness and understanding of science, engineering and technology, and their role in society, by means of various awards and by communicating the nature, processes, ethics, and excitement of science. Membership is open to all.


== History ==
The South African Association for the Advancement of Science was founded in 1902 and modelled on the British Association for the Advancement of Science (BA), now known as the British Science Association. One of the most prominent scientists involved in the movement to establish S2A3 was Dr (later Sir) David Gill (1843–1914), director of the Royal Observatory, Cape of Good Hope, who was elected its first president. All scientific disciplines were accommodated, with the result that membership rose to over 1000. For many years S2A3 was the largest and most influential scientific society in southern Africa. Members met once a year in different southern African cities to present papers and tend to the business of the Association. The first annual meeting was held in Cape Town in 1903. Two years later the Association met jointly with the British Science Association in South Africa. A second joint meeting was held in South Africa in 1929. The annual meetings were discontinued in the nineteen-seventies, whereupon the Association's membership declined to its present level of around 100.


== Governing body ==
The Association is governed by a National Council, consisting of a president, regional vice-presidents, secretary, treasurer, and additional council members. The presidents:

1902–1903 Sir David Gill (1843–1914)
1903–1904 Sir Charles H T Metcalf (1853–1928)
1904–1905 Theodore Reunert (1856–1943)
1905–1906 Gardner F. Williams (1842–1922)
1906–1907 Dr James Hyslop (1856–1917)
1907–1908 Sir Walter F Hely-Hutchinson (1849–1913)
1908–1909 Sir Hamilton J Goold-Adams (1858–1920)
1909–1910 Sir Thomas Muir (1844–1934)
1910–1911 Prof Paul D Hahn (1849–1918)
1911–1912 Sir Arnold Theiler (1867–1936)
1912–1913 Dr Alexander W Roberts (1857–1938)
1913–1914 Prof H W Rudolf Marloth (1855–1931)
1914–1915 Dr Robert T A Innes (1861–1931)
1915–1916 Prof Lawrence Crawford (1867–1951)
1916–1917 Prof John Orr (1870–1954)
1917–1918 Dr Charles F Juritz (1867–1945)
1918–1919 Reverend William Flint (1854–1943)
1919–1920 Dr Illtyd B Pole Evans (1879–1968)
1920–1921 Prof James E Duerden (1865–1937)
1921–1922 Dr Arthur W Rogers (1872–1946)
1922–1923 Prof John D F Gilchrist (1866–1926)
1923–1924 Prof James A Wilkinson (1874?–1934)
1924–1925 General Jan C Smuts (1870–1950)
1925–1926 Dr Edward T Mellor (1868–1940)
1926–1927 Prof Harold B Fantham (1876–1937)
1927–1928 Sir J Carruthers Beattie (1866–1946)
1928–1929 Jan F H Hofmeyr (1894–1948)
1929–1930 Harry E Wood (1881–1946)
1930–1931 Prof John W Bews (1884–1938)
1931–1932 Prof Petrus J du Toit (1888–1967)
1932–1933 Dr Robert Broom (1866–1951)
1933–1934 Dr Alexander L du Toit (1878–1948)
1934–1935 Prof Max M Rindl (1883–1947)
1935–1936 Lord George H H V Clarendon (1877–1955)
1936–1937 Lieutenant-general C Graham Botha (1883–1973)
1937–1938 Prof L F Maingard (−1968)
1938–1939 Prof George H Stanley (1877–1964)
1939–1940 Prof Cornelius G S de Villiers (1894–1978)
1940–1941 James Gray (1882–1957)
1941–1942 Dr Edwin P Phillips (1882–1967)
1942–1943 Dr Adrianus Pijper (1886–1964)
1943–1944 Colonel John G Rose (1876–1973)
1944–1945 Ernest C Chubb (1884–1972)
1945–1946 Dr Frederick E T Krause (1868–1959)
1946–1947 Prof Henry H Paine (1883?–1980)
1947–1948 Dr Sidney H Skaife (1889–1976)
1948–1949 Dr Gilles v d W de Kock (1889–1973)
1949–1950 Prof Clarence van Riet Lowe (1894–1956)
1950–1951 Prof Ernst G Malherbe (1895–)
1951–1952 Dr Basil F J Schonland (1896–1972)
1952–1953 Prof Raymond A Dart (1893–1988)
1953–1954 Prof Percival R Kirby (1887–1970)
1954–1955 Dr Thomas B Davie (1895–1955)
1955–1956 DrS Meiring Naude (1904–1985)
1956–1957 Prof Robert H Compton (1886–1979)
1957–1958 Prof Arthur E H Bleksley (1908–1984)
1958–1959 Dr Ronald Elsdon-Dew (1909–1984)
1959–1960 Dr Bernard Smit (–)
1960–1961 Dr Robert A Dyer (1900–1987)
1961–1962 Dr Jacobus P Duminy (1897–1980)
1962–1963 Dr Simon Biesheuvel (1908–1991)
1963–1964 Prof Govert van Drimmelen (1911–)
1964–1965 Dr Raimund H Marloth (1904–)
1965–1966 Dr Abraham C Hoffman (1903–1969)
1966–1967 Prof Cornelius A du Toit (1910–)
1967–1968 John L M Lintner (1907–)
1968–1969 Prof John F V Phillips (1899–1987)
1969–1970 Prof Ian D Macrone (1898–1981)
1970–1971 Prof Adolf J W Bayer (1900–1978)
1971–1972 Prof Guerino R Bozzoli (1911–1998)
1972–1973 Prof Sidney H Haughton (1888–1982)
1973–1974 Dr James M Hyslop (1908–1984)
1975–1976 Prof Otto Wipplinger (1914–)
1977–1978 L S Richfield (–)
1979–1980 Prof Daniel M Joubert (1928–1994)
1981–1982 Mr Denys G Kingwill (1917–1997)
1983–1984 Prof R D Griesel (1936–)
1985–1986 Dr Gordon K Nelson (1928–1996)
1987 Brigadier G N Robertson (–)
1988–1990 Prof Eric Holm (1945–)
1990–1991 Prof Paul Smit (1932–)
1991–1996 Prof Johan Wolfaardt (1939–)
1996–2002 Dr Ian Raper (1945–)


== Branches ==
The Pretoria Branch of the Association arranges monthly public lectures on scientific subjects.


== Awards ==
The South Africa Medal (gold), originally funded by a grant from the British Science Association in 1905, is awarded annually to recognise exceptional contributions to the advancement of science on a broad front or in a specific field, by an eminent South African scientist. The first recipient, in 1908, was the eminent veterinary scientist Sir Arnold Theiler (1867–1936), for his work on trypanosomes and African horse sickness.
The British Association Medal (silver), originally funded by a grant from the British Science Association in 1929, is awarded annually to a South African scientist under the age of 40 who is actively engaged in research and has, by way of international participation and publications, shown outstanding capability and achievements. The first recipient, in 1932, was Miss Nellie F. Paterson, junior lecturer in zoology at the University of the Witwatersrand.
The S2A3 Masters Medals (bronze) serve to commend outstanding South African science research students graduating at the Masters level. These medals are awarded annually to one candidate selected by each South African university.
Merit Certificates are occasionally awarded to persons who have contributed, each in their own way, to either the advancement of science or the Association's activities.


== Publications ==
The Association annually publishes the Rudolf Marloth Brochure, named after the former president Rudolf Marloth. It contains information about the recipients of the annual awards, summaries of their lectures, and other information relating to the Association's activities. A special centenary edition was published in 2002.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

The Xiaojing, or Classic of Filial Piety, is a Confucian classic treatise giving advice on filial piety
Xiaojing may also refer to:

Xiao'erjing, or Xiaojing, practice of writing Sinitic languages or the Dungan language in the Arabic script
Emperor Xiaojing of Eastern Wei (524–552),  emperor of the Chinese/Xianbei dynasty Eastern Wei
Empress Dowager Xiaojing, consort of the Ming dynasty's Wanli Emperor

Lluís Companys i Jover (Catalan pronunciation: [ʎuˈis kumˈpaɲs]; 21 June 1882 – 15 October 1940) was a Catalan politician from Spain who served as president of Catalonia from 1934 and during the Spanish Civil War.
Companys was a lawyer close to the labour movement and one of the most prominent leaders of the Republican Left of Catalonia (ERC) political party, founded in 1931. He had a key role in the events of the proclamation and first steps of the Second Spanish Republic. Appointed president of the Generalitat of Catalonia in 1934 after the death of the previous president, Francesc Macià, his government tried to consolidate the recently acquired Catalan self-government and implement a progressive agenda, despite the internal difficulties. Opposed to the inclusion of the right-wing CEDA party  in the coalition Spanish government during the strikes and insurgency in October 1934, on 6 October he proclaimed a new Catalan State. He and Catalan government officials were subsequently arrested and imprisoned.
After the left-wing Popular Front won the Spanish national election in 1936, Companys was pardoned, and he returned to head the fractious Catalan government.  He remained president during the Spanish Civil War, loyal to the Republican faction. A refugee in France after the Republican defeat in 1939, he was arrested in 1940 by the secret police of Nazi Germany, the Gestapo. Extradited back to Francoist Spain, he was executed on 15 October 1940.


== Early life ==
Lluís Companys i Jover was born in El Tarròs near Lleida in western Catalonia on 21 June 1882. His parents, Josep Companys and Maria Lluïsa de Jover, were peasants with aristocratic roots. The second child of ten, Companys was sent to boarding school in Barcelona at the Liceu Poliglot. He obtained his law degree from the University of Barcelona, where he met Francesc Layret, another Catalan nationalist with an interest in politics.
Companys participated in the political life of Catalonia from a young age. In 1906, the military pressured and attacked the offices of Catalan newspapers Cu-Cut! and La Veu de Catalunya, events which were followed by the passage of the repressive Ley de Jurisdicciones ("Law of Jurisdictions"), making speech against Spain and its symbols a criminal offense.  In response to these events, he participated in the creation of the successful coalition Solidaritat Catalana. Later, he became affiliated with the ephemeral Republican Nationalist Federal Union (Unió Federal Nacionalista Republicana), where he was president of the youth section. He was investigated for his intense youth activities and was jailed fifteen times. After the violent confrontations in Barcelona during Tragic Week in 1909, he was classified as a "dangerous individual" in police records.
With Francesc Layret, Companys represented the left-wing labour faction of the Partit Republicà Català (Catalan Republican Party), for which he was elected local councilor of Barcelona in 1916. In November 1920, he was arrested together with Salvador Seguí (known as El Noi del Sucre), Martí Barrera and other trade unionists, and he was deported to the Castell de la Mola in Mahón, Menorca. While Layret was preparing Companys' legal defense, he was assassinated by gunmen of the Sindicatos Libres. In the 1920 Spanish legislative elections Companys took the place of Layret, who would likely have won that election, and despite having been deported, Companys was elected member of parliament for Sabadell.  As a member of parliament he had legal immunity, which secured his release from prison.
In 1922 Companys was one of the founders of the peasants' trade union Unió de Rabassaires, where he worked as lawyer and director of the La Terra magazine during the years of the Primo de Rivera regime in the 1920s. Detained again, he was unable to attend the Conferència d'Esquerres (Conference of Leftists), held from 12 to 19 March 1931. The conference produced the political party Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya (ERC, Republican Left of Catalonia) by merging Estat Català (led by Francesc Macià), the Partit Republicà Català itself, and the journal L'Opinió. The latter included Joan Lluhí as prominent figure. Nevertheless, Companys was elected as an executive member of ERC, representing the Partit Republicà Català. Thanks to the bonds between the Spanish labor movement and the Spanish trade union movement, the election of Companys to this position gave the ERC great prestige in left-wing public opinion, as it would otherwise have been regarded as a party of the progressive petty bourgeoisie.


== Proclamation of Second Spanish Republic ==

In the 1931 Spanish local elections, the ERC won a surprise victory in Barcelona and other municipalities of Catalonia. After he learned the results, on 14 April, Companys, who was elected a city representative, and other ERC candidates together with the Party's leader Francesc Macià, decided to take over by surprise the office of mayor and entered the City Hall. After some dispute, the transitional Mayor of Barcelona was deposed, and Companys was proclaimed new mayor. Subsequently, he hung a tricolour Spanish Republican Flag from the City Hall's balcony and proclaimed the Republic. Shortly after, Francesc Macià proclaimed the Catalan Republic within the Federation of Iberian Republics, a project that was later abandoned after gaining the promise of regional devolution and the restitution of the Catalan Generalitat (as autonomous government) from the new Republican government.
After controlling the Barcelona City Hall, Macià ordered Companys to take the office of "Gobernador Civil" (civil governor) of the Barcelona Province, which at that time held considerable powers such as policing. It had been controlled by republican radicals during the proclamation of the republic. Macià probably wanted a less public office for Companys, whom he thought of as a political rival. Companys ran as a Barcelona provincial candidate in the December 1931 Spanish legislative election. After gaining a seat, he led the ERC representation and the Catalan minority group in the new Republican Parliament. He described his political objectives in Madrid: "We, the Catalan members of the Parliament, have come here not only to defend our Statute of Autonomy [law of self-government], and the fraternal and democratic understanding of the members of Parliament; but, also to participate in matters that affect the greatness of Spain: the Constitution, the agrarian reforms and social legislation". In 1932, Companys was elected the first Speaker of the Parliament of Catalonia.


== Presidency of Catalonia and proclamation of Catalan State ==
After the death of Francesc Macià on 25 December 1933, who was presiding over the Generalitat of Catalonia, Companys was elected the successor President of the Generalitat by the Catalan Parliament. He appointed a new coalition government composed by the Republican Left of Catalonia and the other left-wing republican and catalanist parties. Under his presidency, the Parliament passed laws to improve the living conditions of the popular classes and the petite bourgeoisie.  One example was the Crop Contracts Law, which protected the tenant farmers and granted them access to the land they were cultivating.  The law increased tensions, however, after it was contested by the Regionalist League, and it provoked a legal dispute with the Spanish government led by Ricardo Samper. Meanwhile, the Generalitat established its own Court of Appeal (Tribunal de Cassació) and assumed executive powers in public order, according as the Statute of Autonomy stipulated.
On 6 October 1934, with the support of the Worker's Alliance and the pro-independence Escamots, Companys led a Catalan nationalist uprising. Companys proclaimed the Catalan State (Estat Català) within the "Spanish Federal Republic".  The uprising was opposed by both the centrist and conservative Catalan representatives and the new centrist and right-wing republican government, led by Alejandro Lerroux. That government included ministers from the political party CEDA, which was considered by many left-wing sectors as nearly fascist.  The attempt to form the Catalan state was seen as an attempt at a coup d'état, as Companys had revolted against the newly appointed center-right republican government and joined the Asturias miners' attempt at revolution. Companys asked Manuel Azaña, who happened to be in Barcelona during the events, to lead the newly proclaimed Spanish Republican government, but Azaña rejected the proposition. The proclamation was suppressed by the Spanish army, and the Catalan government members were arrested. Companys was sentenced to 30 years in prison.  
For the 1936 Spanish general election on 16 February, in January 1936 various left-wing political organizations, including ERC, formed an electoral alliance called the Popular Front, led by Azaña.  In Catalonia and Valencia, the coalition was known as the Front of the Lefts (Catalan: Front d'Esquerres). After the election victory of the Popular Front, Companys was pardoned by the new Spanish government, and the Catalan government was restored.

The period after that election until July 1936 is considered a time of relative peace in Catalonia, in contrast with the rest of Spain. The Parliament restored their legislative activities.  As a response to the 1936 Berlin Summer Olympics held in Nazi Germany, the government prepared the People's Olympiad in Barcelona, with Companys as its honorary president. The Olympiad was planned to commence on 19 July, but on that same day the Spanish Army began a national coup d'état that would fail but eventually precipitate the Spanish Civil War.  On the morning of 19 July, civil conflict began between Republican and Nationalist forces in Barcelona.


== Civil War ==

When the Spanish Civil War began, Companys sided with the Spanish Republic against the Nationalist faction. Responding to the coup attempt in Barcelona, several working-class militias headed by the CNT-FAI as well as by various parties, independently fought to defeat the local Nationalist forces, subsequently causing tensions in political power.  As a consequence of the independently organized resistance, by the end of the fighting on 21 July some of the organisationnwielded considerably more power than the government.  Those included: Confederación Nacional del Trabajo (CNT), an anarchist syndicalist trade union and its ally the Iberian Anarchist Federation (FAI), a Spanish anarchist organization; the Workers' Party of Marxist Unification (POUM), a revolutionary anti-Stalinist communist party; and others.  Companys was instrumental in organizing an umbrella collaboration between these diverse groups called the Central Committee of Anti-Fascist Militias (CCMA). CCMA was formed on 21 July and sponsored by his Catalan government to reconcile the political tensions, recover the control of the situation, and organize the war effort.

In November 1936, the Generalitat government was the target of a planned coup by members of the pro-independence party Estat Català, a break-away political party from Companys' ERC. Primarily objecting to Companys conciliation with anarchist groups, the conspirators intended to replace him with Prime Minister Joan Casanovas. The plot was exposed and some of its leaders jailed. 
Companys continued to try to maintain the unity of his fragile political coalition, but after the Soviet Union's consul, Vladimir Antonov-Ovseenko, threatened to cut off Russian aid to Catalonia for his continued collaboration with the anti-Stalinist POUM, he sacked its leader Andreu Nin from his post as Minister of Justice in December 1936.  As a consequence of continued Soviet/Comintern and Spanish Communist Party (PCE) pressures, POUM was declared illegal on 16 June 1937. Nin disappeared soon thereafter, widely viewed as having been assassinated by Soviet agents.
Since the beginning of the war, control of public order, defense, borders and war industries had been in the hands of the Generalitat.  In early May 1937, however, there were a series of violent clashes between Republican factions, an event called May Days.  As a consequence, the central government role played by the anarchist CNT-FAI was removed, and control of the public security functions was assumed by the Spanish Republican government. Companys could only protest, and political tensions with the Spanish Republican forces increased.


== Exile and execution ==
With the fall of Barcelona to the Nationalists in January 1939, Companys feared for his life and left the city, departing on 24 January, 2 days prior to the Nationalist takeover. Ten days later he joined the half-million Republican soldiers and civilians in La Retirada escaping the Nationalists of Francisco Franco by crossing the Pyrenees of Catalonia to France.  Companys crossed the French border at Coll de Lli, La Vajol with the Basque lehendakari (president) José Antonio Aguirre on 5 February 1939, thus beginning his exile.
A refugee in France in 1939 after the Civil War, Companys passed up various chances to leave France because his son Lluís was seriously ill in a clinic in Paris. His position became particularly perilous after Germany took France in June 1940.  In collaboration with the Spanish police, the Gestapo arrested him in La Baule-les-Pins near Nantes on 13 August 1940. First detained in La Santé Prison in Paris, he was then extradited by Nazi German authorities to Spain in early September 1940. He was imprisoned at Puerta del Sol, Madrid's central square, in the basement of the headquarters of the Dirección General de Seguridad (General Directorate of State Security) at the Real Casa de Correos (Royal House of the Post Office). Held there for five weeks, he was kept in solitary confinement, interrogated, starved, tortured and brutally beaten. Senior figures of the Francoist State visited his cell, insulted him and threw coins or crusts of bread at him.

In a military trial held in Barcelona in mid-October 1940,
 
Companys was accused of military rebellion and sentenced to death. The trial lasted less than one hour and lacked legal guarantees.  During the trial, Companys was courageously defended by Ramón de Colubí, a young soldier who had fought in the war for the rebels.  Colubí sent a telegram to Franco pleading for clemency for Companys, to no avail.  In 2015 Víctor Gay Zaragoza, a Catalan writer, found that Companys and Colubí were relatives.
Efforts to save Companys were useless, and at 6:30 a.m. on 15 October 1940 he was executed at Montjuïc Castle.  Refusing to wear a blindfold, he was taken barefoot before a firing squad of Civil Guards, and, as they fired, Companys shouted 'Per Catalunya!' (For Catalonia!). The cause of death was given as 'traumatic internal hemorrhage'. He was the only democratically elected president executed by fascism in Europe.


== Legacy ==

Lluís Companys is buried at the Montjuïc Cemetery within the memorial space Fossar de la Pedrera, which is dedicated to Republican victims of the Civil War.  An annual memorial to Companys and the 1,700 Republicans executed for political reasons is held at his grave site on the anniversary of his execution on 15 October.
In Catalonia, Companys is viewed as a martyr to Catalan nationalism and independence. In Spain, Companys’ legacy is divisive, however. While perceived favorably and with reverence by liberals, progressives and those favoring independence in Catalonia, conservative and right-wing factions in Catalonia and Spain view his memory as a threat to the unity of Spain.  In recent years, multiple controversial and unsuccessful attempts have been made to rescind the guilty verdict of Companys' court martial.
In 1998 a monument to Companys was installed near Arc de Triomf, on Passeig de Lluís Companys in Barcelona. The poet Conxita Julià, who as a teenager had written to Companys while he was in prison in 1934–1936, is portrayed next to Companys' image in the monument. The main stadium used for the 1992 Summer Olympics, located on Montjuïc, was officially named in his memory in 2001. Many cities and villages of Catalonia have named streets and squares after him.
His personal archive is located in the CRAI Library of the Pavilion of the Republic at the University of Barcelona. It consists of correspondence about him, as well as discourses and declarations between 1936 and 1938.


== See also ==
List of people executed by Francoist Spain
Martyrs of the Spanish Civil War
Red Terror (Spain)
White Terror (Spain)


== References ==


=== Sources ===
Abelló, Teresa (2006). Els Anys de la Segona República (1931–1936). Barcelona: Edicions 62. ISBN 978-8429757637.
Ossorio, Ángel (1943). Vida y sacrificio de Companys. Buenos Aires: Editorial Losada
Alcalá Giménez, César (2021). La Cobardia de ERC: Los 10 Primeros de la Guerra Civil. Barcelona: SND. ISBN 978-8418816116.


== External links ==

Web: "Unpublished documents about Carme Ballester and Lluís Companys" (in Catalan)
Inventari del Fons F-FP, Subsèrie Lluís Companys, del CRAI Biblioteca del Pavelló de la República de la Universitat de Barcelona
Newspaper clippings about Lluís Companys in the 20th Century Press Archives of the ZBW
BBC Witness History Radio: Lluis Companys - Martyr of Catalan Nationalism Biography and witness accounts of Companys' final days. (9 minute audio)

Dangerous! are a punk band from Australia comprising Nicky Jones and Jarrad Lee. The band's early work was predominantly garage indie punk rock.  Their debut LP, Teenage Rampage was released in 2011 on Epitaph Records and earned them the title of the "Hottest New Band of the Year".  Dangerous! was the only Australian act to sign to Epitaph for worldwide distribution.
The band followed this release with a string of festival appearances throughout Europe and the US, including the Sonisphere Festival, Download, Big Day Out, and Pyramid Rock.


== Discography ==


=== Albums and tracks ===
Winter/Spring Sampler (2011, Epitaph Records)
Teenage Rampage (2011, Epitaph Records)
Nirvana Nevermind Forever ("Endless, Nameless") (2012, Kerrang! Magazine)


=== Singles ===
"Not One of You"
"Movers N Shakers" featured on MTV Rob Dyrdek's Fantasy Factory and debuted on UK BBC Radio 1
"Big Muff"


== References ==

Luboradza [lubɔˈrad͡za] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Barwice, within Szczecinek County, West Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-western Poland. It lies approximately 5 km (3 mi) west of Barwice, 27 km (17 mi) west of Szczecinek, and 118 km (73 mi) east of the regional capital Szczecin. It is part of the former historic village of Alt Koprieben/Coprieben (Pomerania maps dating 1891 and 1893) and became Stare Koprzywno after 1945. The village was abandoned and is now known as Luboradza.
For the history of the region, see History of Pomerania.
The village has a population of 30.


== References ==

The Republic Cafe and Ming Lounge is a Chinese restaurant and bar in Portland, Oregon's Old Town Chinatown, in the United States. Established in 1922, the Republic Cafe is reportedly the oldest Chinese restaurant in Portland and continues to operate under the Mui family's ownership. Serving typical American Chinese cuisine such as Mongolian beef, General Tso's chicken, chop suey, chow mein and egg foo young, the Republic Cafe has been described as a "staple" of Portland's Old Town and the city's Chinese American history. Many celebrities have patronized the restaurant which has also seen several longtime employees. Ming Lounge is among the city's oldest bars and has been characterized as "seedy".


== Description ==
The Republic Cafe and Ming Lounge is a Chinese restaurant and bar near the intersection of Northwest 4th Avenue and Everett Street in downtown Portland's Old Town Chinatown. Writing for The Oregonian, S.J. Sebellin-Ross described Republic Cafe in 2010 as "warren of a restaurant, with multiple rooms and nooks, culminating in a tight bar". Furthermore, they said of the interior, "A symphony of mood lighting and wall murals, brown vinyl banquettes and oversized wicker chairs, it wouldn't be a surprise to see Frank Sinatra nuzzling Ava Gardner over a dry martini in a dim corner booth." Matthew Korfhage of Willamette Week said the restaurant has a "cramped" dining room with floral tapestries on the walls and a mural "that looks like it was unearthed from an ancient tomb". He described Ming Lounge as a "red-lit palace of baroque Orientalism dominated by a pagoda on one wall".
Portland Monthly said of the clientele: "On the weekends, the Republic Cafe's 1950s-esque neon sign lures drunken clubbers into its midst, providing for them a cure for the drunk munchies that really hits the spot."  In 2016, Eater Portland's Heather Arndt Anderson described the restaurant as the city's "reigning old timer of Old Town" with a menu "[harkening] back to the time when chop suey was the trendiest food in town". The Chinese menu has Mongolian beef, General Tso's chicken, chop suey, egg foo young, and hot and sour soup. The spring rolls, made with cabbage and celery, are served with sweet plum sauce, as are the meatless fried wontons. The shrimp and vegetables entree came with button mushrooms, cauliflower, snow peas, and water chestnuts, and the vegetable mushroom noodles came with mushrooms, onions, and snow peas.


== History ==


=== 1920s–1950s ===
The restaurant, owned by the Mui family, was established in 1922. Republic Cafe and Huber's (both Chinese-owned) are the two oldest restaurants in Portland, as of 2017. Sam Soohoo and Victor Wong were both owners of the Republic Cafe until 1979. Before selling and retiring, Soohoo had been an owner for approximately 40 years; he died in 1993. One of the Republic's cooks, Wong Hai, had his head crushed by a cleaver in the restaurant's doorway in 1942. Suspected of the "brutal" murder, Lock Poy reportedly died by suicide by hanging in a jail cell days later. Steve Woodward of The Oregonian wrote in 2004: In the 1950s, the Republic Cafe was a magical place. The restaurant stayed open until 4 a.m. on weekends. When the nightclubs and other restaurants closed at 2:30 a.m. Friday and Saturday nights, their customers poured into the Republic. On Sundays, customers from the Jewish community would line up for a table or carryout. On Mother's Day, people would stand outside in the rain, waiting for a table. The bar used to be filled with big-name lawyers, commissioners, visiting celebrities.


=== 1960s–present ===
Woodward also opined, "Today's Republic Cafe and Ming Lounge is far different from the Republic of the 1950s. A customer no longer can leave a purse on the bar and later expect to find it still there." According to Portland Monthly, during the 1970s the bar occupied the whole banquet room and "the party often lasted until 4am. Today, however, The Republic is merely a testament to its former self." Many celebrities have visited the restaurant, including Louis Armstrong, Harry Belafonte, Victor Borge, Tommy Dorsey, Marcel Marceau, and Shaquille O'Neal. Bud Clark, a former Portland mayor, proposed to his wife at the Republic Cafe.
In 1991, the Republic Cafe agreed to hire the Chinatown Ambassadors, a group of three professional bouncers who helped "patrons of eight Chinatown restaurants get from their cars to the front doors, and vice versa, safely, without the hustle of drug dealers or panhandlers". The Oregonian's Vivien Lou Chen called the initiative "one of the most recent and innovative ways that residents and merchants have found to police themselves", but one of the men who hired the bouncers acknowledged, "the presence of the Chinatown Ambassadors has only pushed drug dealers onto other blocks, where there is less resistance". In 1992, the restaurant hosted the first joint appearance of then mayoral candidates Earl Blumenauer and Vera Katz; the forum was sponsored by the Chinese American Citizens Alliance and the Chinese Chamber of Commerce, and attended by approximately 50 people.
The Republic Cafe has had several longtime staff members. Mary Sasaki worked as a cashier, waitress, and bartender for 51 years, starting on June 5, 1953. Mary Haley was a waitress for 35 years before moving out of Portland in the early 1990s. Merridy Joy Ann Johnson served as a bartender for 25 years.
In 2010, Oregon State University described a low-cost internet surveillance system being developed by Alan Mui and partners. The concept was conceived after Mui helped his father install a low-cost security system at the restaurant. A fire started in the Republic Cafe on August 22, 2017 at 5:00 pm; there were no words regarding casualties or fatalities. In 2018, a photograph of Ivan Mui outside the restaurant was exhibited at the Portland Chinatown Museum's inaugural opening exhibit, Dean Wong's Made in Chinatown USA: Portland.


== Building ==

The building occupied by the Republic Cafe was designated on the National Register of Historic Places in 1989 as part of the Portland New Chinatown–Japantown Historic District, although significant alterations to the building have limited its historical value. The architecture firm Houghtaling & Dougan designed the single-story rectangular concrete building for O.B. Stubbs. The Zanella Brothers completed the structure in 1922 for $15,000. The Stubbs family owned the building until Sally Friedman bought it in 1945. Chinese and Japanese businesses such as barbershops and restaurants operated in the storefronts. The building has a concrete foundation, stucco exterior, and a flat roof with green tile covers. The entrance and exterior were remodeled in 1960 and 1974, respectively. According to the historic district's registration form, Republic Cafe opened in the building in 1930.


== Reception ==
Portland Monthly has called the restaurant "a Chinatown staple" with "cheap and greasy" food and said the lounge "provides little in the way of the wild 70s, and the seedy atmosphere and red & gold orientalia decor recalls those halcyon days when Chinatown actually housed a significant Chinese population". In 2010, The Oregonian's Sebellin-Ross called the meatless fried wontons "embarrassingly addictive", recommended the shrimp with vegetables, and wrote, "while the vegetable mushroom noodles are not overwhelmingly tasty, the sheer quantity" of food is "perfect for a big appetite with a small budget". In Linh Dinh's Postcards from the End of America (2017), which sees the author travel by bus and train "to document what life is like in the parts of America that don't always make the headlines", Dinh visit the Plaza Blocks and Ming Lounge. His conclusion for the chapter "Squirrelly Portland" is "It's not all roses here." In 2017, Willamette Week's Matthew Korfhage called Ming Lounge "the most beautiful seedy bar" in the city and said the Republic is "perhaps, the only place in Portland where chop suey and egg foo young are still considered delicacies". He reckoned: Sure, the place has seen better days (on our visit, the door had been smashed in, and covered with particle board) but almost nowhere in Portland is the distant past so present. The egg foo young is like an old man's heart—full of egg and gravy. You couldn't call it good, but it is a profound comfort. The hot-and-sour soup and General Tso's chicken can be safely ignored, but the Republic serves the most classic rendition of Mongolian beef in Portland, a massive platter that is all green onion bittersweetness and cellophane crunch, under strips of beef.
Additionally, in his 2017 Old Town pub crawl "for people who rarely use the word 'bro'", Korfhage wrote: One of the oldest bars in Portland, the red-walled Ming Lounge is also perhaps one of its most obscure—tucked alongside an equally old Chinatown eatery. But aside from the occasional shouting tweaker, Ming Lounge is amazing: deco walls, the stiffest $4 well drinks anywhere in town, and surprisingly good Chinese that includes a multi-item egg foo young menu that seems to be directly transported from the 1940s. Turns out, it's delicious when you're drunk late at night—which is when you're here.


== See also ==

History of Chinese Americans in Portland, Oregon
List of Chinese restaurants


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

Lecithocera deleastra is a moth in the family Lecithoceridae. It was described by Edward Meyrick in 1911. It is found in Sri Lanka.
The wingspan is 15–17 mm. The forewings are moderately dark purple fuscous. The stigmata are obscurely darker, the plical hardly beyond the first discal, the second discal forming a transverse mark. There is a somewhat oblique ochreous-whitish mark on the costa at three-fourths, where a faintly indicated very obtusely angulated pale line runs to the dorsum before the tornus. There is a dark terminal line. The hindwings are fuscous.


== References ==

Composers who have made significant contributions to the repertory of Anglican church music.


== A ==
Malcolm Archer
Thomas Armstrong
Thomas Attwood
Richard Ayleward
Raffaella Aleotti


== B ==
Edgar Bainton
Edward Bairstow
John Barnard
Joseph Barnby
Adrian Batten
Jonathan Battishill
Lennox Berkeley
William Thomas Best
Elway Bevin
Hugh Blair
John Blow
William Boyce
Harry Bramma
David Briggs
Kerensa Briggs
Benjamin Britten
Albertus Bryne
William Byrd
Judith Bingham
Amy Beach
Diana Burrell
Sally Beamish
Carol Barnett


== C ==
Anthony Caesar
Jeremiah Clarke
Rebecca Clarke
Benjamin Cooke
Henry Cooke
Robert Cooke
Joseph Corfe
Avril Coleridge-Taylor
Robert Creighton
William Croft
William Crotch
Jean Coulthard


== D ==
Harold Darke
John Albert Delany
Richard Dering
James Douglas
Jonathan Dove
Thomas Sanders Dupuis
George Dyson
Eleanor Daley


== F ==
Richard Farrant
Gerald Finzi
Cheryl Frances-Hoad


== G ==
Henry Gadsby
Bernard Gates
Orlando Gibbons
John Goss
Maurice Greene


== H ==
Peter Hallock
Calvin Hampton
George Frideric Handel
William H. Harris
Basil Harwood
William Henry Havergal
Philip Hayes
William Hayes
Edward John Hopkins
Martin How
Herbert Howells
Pelham Humfrey
Peter Hurford
Imogen Holst


== I ==
John Ireland
Grayston Ives


== J ==
Enderby Jackson
Francis Jackson
William Jackson of Exeter
William Jackson of Masham
Roger Jones
John Joubert


== K ==
James Kent
Charles King
Gerald Knight


== L ==
Craig Sellar Lang
Kenneth Leighton


== M ==
John Merbecke
George William Martin
William Mathias
J. H. Maunder
E. J. Moeran
Thomas Morley
Herbert Murrill
Cecilia McDowall
Sarah MacDonald (musician)
Elizabeth Maconchy


== N ==
Peter Nardone
James Nares
Sydney Nicholson
T. Tertius Noble
June Nixon


== O ==
George Oldroyd
Frederick Ouseley


== P ==
Frederick Augustus Packer
Hubert Parry
Osbert Parsley
Robert Parsons
Walter Porter
Francis Pott
Daniel Purcell
Henry Purcell
Florence Price
Roxanna Panufnik
Elizabeth Poston


== R ==
Vaughan Richardson
Alan Ridout
Sir John Rogers, 6th Baronet
Barry Rose
Bernard Rose
John Rutter


== S ==
John Sanders
Martin Shaw
Richard Shephard
John Sheppard
Caleb Simper
Henry Smart
William Smith
Leo Sowerby
John Stainer
Charles Villiers Stanford
Charles Steggall
Charles Edward Stephens
Charles Hylton Stewart
Herbert Sumsion
Undine Smith Moore
Rhian Samuel


== T ==
Thomas Tallis
John Tavener
John Taverner
Thomas Tomkins
George William Torrance
John Travers
Noël Tredinnick
James Turle
William Turner
Christopher Tye


== V ==
Stanley Vann
Ralph Vaughan Williams
Charles Garland Verrinder


== W ==
Thomas Attwood Walmisley
William Walton
Thomas Weelkes
John Weldon
Samuel Wesley
Samuel Sebastian Wesley
Alfred Wheeler
Healey Willan
Michael Wise
Charles Wood
Richard Woodward
Judith Weir
Errollyn Wallen
Grace Williams
Janet Wheeler


== See also ==
List of Anglicans and Episcopalians

William McKnight (May 3, 1842 – November 4, 1914) was a United States Navy sailor and a recipient of America's highest military decoration—the Medal of Honor—for his actions in the American Civil War.


== Early life ==
William Henry McKnight was born on May 3, 1842, in Ulster County, New York.


== Wartime Service ==
During the Civil War, William McKnight served in the U.S. Navy as a Coxswain. On April 24, 1862, as a gun captain on board USS Varuna (1861), he participated in combat against Confederate ships as the Federal fleet fought its way past the fortifications protecting the approaches to New Orleans, Louisiana. For his conduct during this event, Coxswain McKnight was awarded the Medal of Honor.


== Medal of Honor citation ==

Rank and Organization:

Coxswain, U.S. Navy. Born: 1842 Ulster County, N.Y. Accredited to: New York. G.O. No.: 11, 3 April 1863.
Citation:

Captain of a gun on board the U.S.S. Varuna during the attacks on Forts Jackson and St. Philip and in action against the rebel ship CSS Governor Moore, 24 April 1862. During this action at extremely close range, while his ship was under furious fire and was twice rammed by the rebel ship Morgan, McKnight remained steadfast at his gun throughout the thickest of the fight and was instrumental in inflicting damage on the enemy until the Varuna, so badly damaged that she was forced to beach, was finally sunk.


== See also ==

List of American Civil War Medal of Honor recipients: M–P


== Notes ==


== References ==
 This article incorporates public domain material from websites or documents of the Naval History and Heritage Command.
"US People - McKnight, William". Online Library. Naval History & Heritage Command. 2001-11-30. Archived from the original on February 9, 2002. Retrieved 2006-11-06.
"Civil War Medal of Honor recipients (M-Z)". Medal of Honor citations. United States Army Center of Military History. August 3, 2009. Archived from the original on December 14, 2007. Retrieved July 1, 2010.

Elen Sofie Elster Christensen (11 January 1904 – 1 December 1967) was a Norwegian sculptor of the 20th century. Her public works grace a number of Norwegian cities and towns,  including Gutten som ser fremover, a statue in Trondheim that honors shipping magnate Harry Borthens.
Christensen debuted her art in 1936 with the sculpted female head entitled Helg. In 1942, during the German occupation, she held her first solo show at Hammerlunds Kunsthandel, Oslo, under the title Skulptur i hjemmene (Sculpture in Homes). During her career, her works were exhibited in a number of shows into the 1960s, including in Sweden and France.

Her works are mainly small format pieces in bronze and terracotta with a disciplined sense of form. Children and animals were her preferred subject models, resulting in such works as Liten Adam in polished black syenite (1936), Stolarrest (bronze, 1950), Abe med Honningkake (colored terracotta, 1959) and Reinsdyråring får horn (1962).
Christensen created a series of portraits and busts that are characterized by the expression of the subjects’ being and personality through form and line, such as, for example, in the bust of director Sigurd Houth (bronze, 1942). Other busts include those of architect J.F. Macody Lund (1944), and the jurist and World War II resistance hero Johan Bernhard Hjort.


== Personal life and education ==
Born to Hjalmar Christensen, a writer and journalist, and Olga Helberg (who was herself an artist) in Oslo on 11 January 1904, Christensen was raised by her mother and step-father, who was a priest, after her parents divorced. Her mother Olga had trained in Berlin as an artist of fine arts, and this apparently led Christensen to pursue an artistic endeavor as well, although she initially trained as an agronomist.
She began her artistic training as a visiting student at the Norwegian Institute of Technology under Professor Harald Krohg Stabell, studying drawing and watercolor, and under sculptor Harald Samuelsen studying modeling. She also attended the National Art Academy in Oslo under Wilhelm Rasmussen from 1934 to 1937 and was a student of the famed Emile-Antoine Bourdelle in Paris.
She was married three times, to Peter Holst Høstmark, Bjørn Ivar Sundet Johanssen, and Sigurd Bjørnsen. She had at least two children, one by Høstmark and other with Johanssen. Her granddaughter is also an artist.
Elen Christensen died in Oslo on 1 December 1967.


== Public works and works in public collections ==
Bust of J.F. Macody Lund (bronze, 1944), Vår Frelsers Gravlund (Cemetery) Oslo
Tenåring (Teen) (1960), Sandnes high school
Gutten som ser fremover Archived 2017-09-04 at the Wayback Machine (bronze, ca. 1961), Trondheim
Sailors’ Memorial Plaque, Fred Olsen's Offices, Oslo


== External links ==
Elen Sofie Elster Christensen
Fatal Attraction
Adam et Eve sold at auction. Archived 2016-12-30 at the Wayback Machine
Ga skulptur til sin egen vei Archived 2017-09-04 at the Wayback Machine


== References ==

Aaserud, Anne. Elen Christensen. I Norsk kunstnerleksikon. Hentet 22. 2015 https://nkl.snl.no/Elen_Christensen
Parmann, Ø., Norsk skulptur i femti år, Oslo, 1969.

The Battle of Chaffin's Farm and New Market Heights, also known as Laurel Hill and combats at Forts Harrison, Johnson, and Gilmer, was fought in Virginia on September 29–30, 1864, as part of the siege of Petersburg in the American Civil War.


== Background ==
From the very beginning of the war, Confederate engineers and slave laborers had constructed permanent defenses around Richmond. By 1864, they had created a system anchored south of the capital on the James River at Chaffin's Farm, a large open area at Chaffin's Bluff, both named for a local landowner. This outer line was supported by an intermediate and inner system of fortifications much closer to the capital. In July and August 1864, these lines were tested by Union Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant in offensives designed to attack simultaneously north and south of the James.
On July 27–29, the Army of the Potomac's II Corps under Maj. Gen. Winfield S. Hancock and cavalry under Maj. Gen. Philip Sheridan attacked New Market Heights and Fussell's Mill in the First Battle of Deep Bottom (named for the section of the James River used for the Union crossing). The attacks failed to break through to threaten Richmond or its railroads, but they did cause Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee to transfer men from the Petersburg fortifications in preparation for the Battle of the Crater on July 31. The Second Battle of Deep Bottom was conducted by Hancock on August 14–20, attacking in almost the same areas once again to draw Confederate troops away from south of the James, where the Battle of Globe Tavern (also known as the Second Battle of the Weldon Railroad) was an attempt to cut the railroad supply lines to Petersburg. The second battle was also a Confederate victory, but it forced Lee to weaken his Petersburg defenses and abandon plans to reinforce his men in the Shenandoah Valley.
In late September, Grant planned another dual offensive. Historians sometimes enumerate Grant's offensives during the Richmond–Petersburg Campaign. Richard J. Sommers, John Horn, and Noah Andre Trudeau call these operations "Grant's Fifth Offensive". Grant's primary objective was to cut the railroad supply lines to the south of Petersburg, which would likely cause the fall of both Petersburg and Richmond. He planned to use a cavalry division under Brig. Gen. David McM. Gregg and four infantry divisions from the V and IX Corps of the Army of the Potomac to sever the South Side Railroad, an operation that would result in the Battle of Peebles' Farm from September 30 to October 2. Once again hoping to distract Robert E. Lee and draw Confederate troops north of the river, Grant ordered the Army of the James under Maj. Gen. Benjamin F. Butler to attack toward Richmond.
Butler devised a plan that historian John Horn called his "best performance of the war." Rather than repeat the efforts of July and August to turn the Confederate left, Butler planned surprise attacks on the Confederate right and center. His XVIII Corps under Maj. Gen. Edward O. C. Ord, would cross the James River to Aiken's Landing by a newly constructed pontoon bridge. At the original Deep Bottom pontoon bridge, his X Corps under Maj. Gen. David B. Birney would cross, followed by his cavalry under Brig. Gen. August V. Kautz. In a two-pronged attack, the right wing (Birney's X Corps, augmented by a United States Colored Troops division under Brig. Gen. Charles J. Paine from the XVIII Corps) would assault the Confederate lines at New Market Road and drive on to capture the artillery positions behind it on New Market Heights. This action would protect the flank of the left wing (the remainder of Ord's XVIII Corps), which would attack Fort Harrison from the south-east, neutralizing the strongest point of the entire Confederate line. Then, the right wing would assist the left by attacking Fort Gregg and Fort Gilmer, both north of Fort Harrison. Kautz's cavalry would exploit Birney's capture of the New Market Road by driving for Richmond.


== Orders of battle ==


=== Union ===


=== Confederate ===


== Battle ==


=== New Market Heights ===
Maj. Gen. David B. Birney moved the X Corps north from the Deep Bottom bridgehead toward the Confederate works atop New Market Heights manned by Brig. Gen. John Gregg. A brigade of U.S. Colored Troops attacked the heights but was repulsed. In this attack, Christian Fleetwood's actions would later earn him the Medal of Honor. Birney reinforced the assault force and stormed the heights again. Alfred H. Terry's division managed to turn the Confederate left flank, thus turning the tide of the battle. Word of Union success against Fort Harrison then reached Gregg, compelling him to pull Confederate troops back to Forts Gregg, Gilmer and Johnson. Confederate defenders at New Market Heights were Lee's "Grenadier Guards", the First, Fourth and Fifth Texas and the Third Arkansas, numbering about 1,800 men. They inflicted 850 casualties on the attacking 13,000 Union troops while suffering only 50 casualties.
Once Birney's troops had taken New Market Heights, the X Corps turned to the north-west along the New Market Road and moved against a secondary line of works guarding Richmond north of Fort Harrison. Brig. Gen. Robert Sanford Foster's X Corps division assaulted a small salient known as Fort Gilmer. David Birney's brother, Brig. Gen. William Birney, led a brigade of U.S. Colored Troops against Fort Gregg south of Fort Gilmer.  These attacks were marked by heroism among the Colored Troops but were ultimately repulsed.


=== Fort Harrison ===

At about the same time Birney's first attack moved forward, the Union XVIII Corps under Major General Edward Ord, assaulted Fort Harrison to the west of New Market Heights.  Ord's assault was led by Brig. Gen. George Stannard, a veteran of Gettysburg. Stannard's men rushed across an open field and took cover in a slight depression just in front of the fort and, after a moment's rest, took the fort. The Confederate defenders broke to the rear, seeking refuge behind a secondary line. Brig. Gen. Hiram Burnham was killed during the attack, and the Union troops renamed the captured fort in his honor.
Once inside the fort, the Union attackers became disorganized.  All three of Stannard's brigade commanders were wounded or killed. A supporting column under Brig. Gen. Charles A. Heckman veered far off to the north and was repulsed. Ord personally attempted to rally the troops to exploit their success, but he too fell with a critical wound. The loss of commanders and the presence of Confederate ironclads on the James put an end to the XVIII Corps' drive on Chaffin's Bluff along the James River.
Robert E. Lee realized the severity of the loss of Fort Harrison and personally brought 10,000 reinforcements under Maj. Gen. Charles Field north from Petersburg. On September 30, Lee ordered a counter-attack to retake Fort Harrison, now commanded by Maj. Gen. Godfrey Weitzel, replacing the wounded Ord. The Confederate attacks were uncoordinated and were easily repulsed.


== Aftermath ==
Just as Grant had anticipated, the fighting around Chaffin's Farm forced Lee to shift his resources and helped the Union army south of Petersburg win the Battle of Peebles' Farm. After October, the two armies settled into trench warfare that continued until the end of the war. The fighting around Chaffin's Farm cost the nation nearly 5,000 casualties.


=== Medal of Honor recipients ===

The following men received the Medal of Honor for action in the battle:

Three Medal of Honor recipients from the 6th U.S. Colored Infantry Regiment are depicted in a painting, Three Medals of Honor by artist Don Troiani. The painting was unveiled June 24, 2013 at the Union League of Philadelphia. Portrayed in the painting are Nathan H. Edgerton, Thomas R. Hawkins, and Alexander Kelly.


== Battlefield preservation ==
As of late 2021, the American Battlefield Trust and its partners have acquired and preserved 87 acres (0.35 km2) of the battlefield.


== See also ==

Butler Medal, awarded to numerous participants


== References ==


=== Notes ===


=== Citations ===


=== Bibliography ===


== Further reading ==
Claxton, Melvin; Puls, Mark (2006). Uncommon Valor: A Story of Race, Patriotism, and Glory in the Final Battles of the Civil War. Hoboken, NJ: Wiley. ISBN 978-0-471-46823-3.
Davis, William C. (1987). Death in the trenches: Grant at Petersburg. The Civil War. Alexandria, Virginia: Time-Life Books. ISBN 978-0-8094-4776-3.
Eicher, David J. (2001). The longest night: a military history of the Civil War. New York: Simon & Schuster. ISBN 978-0-684-84944-7.


== External links ==
 Media related to Chaffin's Farm at Wikimedia Commons
National Park Service battle description
CWSAC Report Update
Richmond National Battlefield Park, Chaffin's Farm
The Remarkable Life of a Quaker Civil War Hero
Battle of New Market Heights: Maps, Histories, and Preservation News (CWPT)
Richard S. Ewell's Unpublished Description of the September 29, 1864 Fighting

Tzimtzum or tsimtsum (Hebrew: צִמְצוּם, romanized: ṣimṣum, lit. 'contraction, constriction, condensation') is a term used in Lurianic Kabbalah to explain Isaac Luria's doctrine that God began the process of creation by limiting the Ohr Ein Sof (infinite light) of the Godhead in order to allow for a conceptual space in which the Four Worlds, or finite realms, could exist. This primordial initial contraction, forming a "vacant space" (חלל הפנוי, ḥalal hapanuy) into which new creative light could beam, is denoted by general reference to the tzimtzum. In Kabbalistic interpretation, tzimtzum gives rise to the paradox of simultaneous divine presence and absence within the vacuum and resultant Creation. Various approaches exist as to how the paradox may be resolved, and as to the nature of tzimtzum itself.


== Function ==

The Hebrew word zimzum can mean "contraction," "retraction," "demarcation," "restraint," and "concentration." The term zimzum originates in the Kabbalah and refers to God’s contraction of himself before the creation of the world, and for the purpose of creating the world. To put it another way, the omnipresent God, who exists beyond time and space before creation, withdraws a part of his infinite presence into himself. With this divine gesture, God restricts himself in zimzum, clearing the empty space that is necessary for creation. The emanation and the creation of the world are then able to occur in the center of God following this act of zimzum. In this process, God limits his omnipotence, so that a finite world can exist within finite contours. Without zimzum, there would be no creation. For this reason, zimzum is a key concept in Jewish thought.

Because the tzimtzum results in the space in which the spiritual and physical worlds and, ultimately, free will, can exist, God is often referred to as "Ha-Makom" (המקום lit. "the Place", "the Omnipresent") in rabbinic literature. Olam, the Hebrew term for a world, is derived from the triliteral עלם "concealment". This etymology is complementary with the concept of tsimtsum in that the subsequent spiritual realms and the ultimate physical universe conceal to different degrees the lifeforce of creation.
Their progressive diminutions of the divine ohr (Light) from realm to realm in creation are also referred to in the plural as secondary tzimtzumim. However, these subsequent concealments are found in medieval Kabbalah. The new doctrine of Luria advanced the notion of the primordial withdrawal or dilug (radical "leap") to reconcile the causal creative chain from the Godhead with finite existence.


=== Inherent paradox ===

A commonly held understanding in Kabbalah is that the concept of tzimtzum contains a built-in paradox, requiring that God be simultaneously transcendent and immanent.
Viz.: On the one hand, if the "Infinite" did not restrict itself, then nothing could exist—everything would be overwhelmed by God's totality. Existence thus requires God's transcendence, as above. On the other hand, God continuously maintains the existence of, and is thus not absent from, the created universe.

The Divine life-force which brings all creatures into existence must constantly be present within them ... were this life-force to forsake any created being for even one brief moment, it would revert to a state of utter nothingness, as before the creation.

God gives their force to all creatures and this force gives them their limits, so that material substance could be finite and with nature for Original providence.
Nachman of Breslav discusses this inherent paradox as follows:

Only in the future will it be possible to understand the Tzimtzum that brought the "Empty Space" into being, for we have to say of it two contradictory things ... [1] the Empty Space came about through the Tzimtzum, where, as it were, He 'limited' His Godliness and contracted it from there, and it is as though in that place there is no Godliness ... [2] the absolute truth is that Godliness must nevertheless be present there, for certainly nothing can exist without His giving it life.
So God is eternal and the infinity in time and space is his nature: we cannot think the infinity of causes about the infinity of Universe or Creation because in the first case the infinity of numbers is only possible in theory but God is the Creator and no one can be like God, "the First Cause": it is impossible thinking about two God because one of them could have hypothetical superiority and we would admit one God, so the First Cause is God; in the second case, that is the infinity of Creation, it is impossible because, a part the "fantasy of this think without Logical-reason and without research of real study", we cannot think about infinity of time because eternity is a nature of God and not a quality of material substance:

Indeed one commentator strove to prove this proposition by putting the point in the following words: "Anything that will not be realized essentially unless it is preceded by something infinite, will not be realized and cannot come to exist." If the precedence were temporal, there might be grounds for this argument—but even so, it is open to dispute. For we see that it does in fact happen that a thing that is not realized unless being preceded by something infinite is realized. One might say, by way of analogy, that this day that we are in is realized, even though it could not have been realized unless it were preceded, according to those who subscribe to the anterior eternity of the universe, by something infinite. Although in this case the realization was accidental, nevertheless, our conceding the possibility in the case of the accidental while maintaining its impossibility in the case of the essential requires justification. But even if we concede this distinction in the matter of priority in time, there are no grounds for it in the matter of causal priority, in the case in which they are contemporaneous. For since this [viz. the possibility of realization] holds for things that are contemporaneous, by what necessity is it impossible for each one to be the cause of another, while it is possible for them all to be effects [of a single cause], once we recognize the possibility that they can be infinite simultaneously?
Hasdai Crescas in "Or Hashem" explains that over the limits of world of finitude of shape it can be said that God is living forever with eternal attribute of Infinite, i.e. His essence over time and space:

If an infinite body existed, it would move either circularly or rectilinearly. If circularly, it would have to have a center, because what is circular is that which circles around a center. But if it has a center, it also has extremities. But an infinite thing has no extremities. Hence it cannot move circularly. The remaining possibility is that it moves rectilinearly, but if so, it requires necessarily two places, each of them infinite. One would be for natural motion and it would be a that-to-which, and the second would be for forcible motion and it would be a that-from-which. But if the places are two, they will necessarily be finite, since what is infinite cannot be two in number. Yet they were assumed to be infinite. Thus it [viz. an infinite body] cannot move rectilinearly. Moreover, the place cannot be infinite since it is bounded, for it was shown with respect to it that it is an encompassing limit
This "material-World" is "inside God", with earth and universe: God is infinite but the World and Universe are finites, so the centre of God is not possible, because of His Infinite-essence; God is infinite with the World with nature, humankind, animals, etc. "Inside-Him".Chokhmah, Binah and Daat are like onion skins because the Pardes transcends all literal significance of Torah:

And all the heavens are one on top of the other, like onion skins one on top of the other, some below and some above
Before Creation and before Tzimtzum "God filled all space", that is, God alone existed because Creation had not yet been created. The Torah reflects divine wisdom, so God was with the Torah even before Creation: "I (the Torah) was there"; in other words the Midrash explains that before the Creation "God played with the Torah", his wisdom was therefore his only delight. Maimonide also explains that God is the same entity together with his wisdom, he also states that "the knower, knowledge and the known" refer to the "same thing".
Hasdai Crescas relates this idea with intellect of man but this is true only for God because His Wisdom is omniscient so when "God knows about himself... He is knowing about all things". God knows also about all things in their "Quiddity", i.e. their essence and their attributes. It’s evident that God knows Himself and the intelligibles:

 For the intellecter is something other than intellection, though intellection is necessitated for the intellecter by an essential necessity. It is therefore evident that this premise is false with respect to human intellect, even if we posit it with respect to intellect in actuality. This is necessitated as well for the separate intellect, for intellection is an essential attribute and not an essence. Many philosophers have stumbled in this matter, having failed to distinguish between an essence and an essential attribute. What is surprising about these philosophers is that this matter cannot escape the following disjunction. Either intellection of various different intelligibles is one thing or it is not. If it is one thing, it would be necessary for the intelligibles to be one thing, since intellection and the intellected are one thing. Yet the intelligibles were assumed to be different from one another. It would be necessitated as well that when a man knew one intelligible he would know them all, since they are one thing. But if their intellection is not one thing, it is necessitated that the intellect be composed of various intelligibles. If they are substances, it would be composed of many substances. All of this, however, is absurd in the extreme


== Lurianic interpretation ==

Isaac Luria introduced four central themes into Kabbalistic cosmology: tzimtzum (divine contraction), Shevirat HaKelim (the shattering of the vessels), Tikkun (repair and rectification), and Partzufim (the arrangement of divine personas). These concepts form a continuous and interrelated process describing how the finite world emerged from divine infinity. Tzimtzum represents the initial withdrawal of divine light (Ohr Ein Sof), creating a "vacant space" (chalal panui) where independent existence could emerge. However, even within this space, a residual trace of the divine (reshimu) remained, ensuring the continued presence of divinity within creation. Shevirat HaKelim describes how, after the tzimtzum, God created the vessels (HaKelim) in the empty space, and how when God began to pour his Light into the vessels they were not strong enough to hold the power of God's Light and shattered (Shevirat). The third step, Tikkun, is the process of gathering together, and raising, the sparks of God's Light that were carried down with the shards of the shattered vessels.
Since tzimtzum is connected to the concept of exile, and Tikkun is connected to the need to repair the problems of the world of human existence, Luria unites the cosmology of Kabbalah with the practice of Jewish ethics, and makes ethics and traditional Jewish religious observance the means by which God allows humans to complete and perfect the material world through living the precepts of a traditional Jewish life. Thus, in contrast to earlier, Medieval Kabbalah, this made the first creative act a concealment/divine exile rather than unfolding revelation. This dynamic crisis-catharsis in the divine flow is repeated throughout the Lurianic scheme.


== Hasidic interpretations ==
In Hasidic thought, the concept of tzimtzum is not meant to be interpreted literally but rather to refer to how God impresses his presence upon the consciousness of finite reality. Tzimtzum is not only seen as being a natural process but is also seen as a doctrine that every person is able, and indeed required, to understand and meditate upon. The function of the tzimtzum was "to conceal from created beings the activating force within them, enabling them to exist as tangible entities, instead of being utterly nullified within their source". The tzimtzum produced the required "vacated space" (חלל פנוי ḥəlāl pānuy "empty space", חלל ḥālāl "space"), devoid of direct awareness of God's presence.


== Non-Hasidic interpretations ==


=== Vilna Gaon's view ===
The Vilna Gaon maintained that tzimtzum was not a literal contraction of God's presence but rather a conceptual process that was not perceptible to those who had not been fully initiated into Kabbalistic thought. While he rejected the notion that God physically withdrew from creation, he also emphasized that the upper unity—the idea that the universe is ultimately an illusion—remained beyond human comprehension for those untrained in esoteric wisdom.
Despite this, some scholars argue that the Vilna Gaon held a more literal interpretation of tzimtzum, viewing it as a real withdrawal in a certain sense. This perspective is particularly emphasized by Rabbi Shlomo Elyashiv, who insisted that the literal reading of Luria's teachings aligns with the Gaon's view. Elyashiv criticized later interpretations that treated the world as entirely illusory, arguing that such an approach undermines the foundations of Torah and Jewish belief.
Ultimately, both the Vilna Gaon and Elyashiv maintained that tzimtzum applied only to God's will (ratzon), rather than to God's essential being (Atzmus), which remains unknowable and beyond all human comprehension.


== Modern interpretations ==
Some modern scholars have reinterpreted Tzimtzum using psychological and existential frameworks. Shlomo Giora Shoham presents tzimtzum as a mythoempirical projection of pregnancy, arguing that the process of divine contraction mirrors gestation and fetal development. In this view, tzimtzum is not merely a withdrawal but a gradual transformation, where infinite divine light is "fed" and develops within a cosmic womb. Shoham describes the fetus as a core of Divinity, which eventually leads to the materialization of cosmic vessels and the formation of finite existence.
Expanding on this idea, Shoham further elaborates that Shevirat HaKelim, the breaking of these vessels, corresponds to birth, a moment of rupture that leads to Tikkun (repair and rectification). In this analogy, the world of Tikkun, which follows the breaking, represents the postnatal stage, where divine light is restructured into Partzufim (divine personas or images), reflecting the maturation process after birth. Shoham’s interpretation positions Lurianic Kabbalah within a universal archetypal framework, aligning tzimtzum with human developmental metaphors and the existential cycle of contraction, rupture, and restoration.


== See also ==
Acosmism
Hylomorphism
Monism
Nondualism


== References ==


=== Citations ===


=== Works cited ===


== Further reading ==


== External links ==
Basics in Kabbalah and Chassidut (inner.org)
Igeret Hakodesh: Epistle 12 (chabad.org)

The Messerschmitt M 24, otherwise known as the BFW M.24, was an airliner developed in Germany in the late 1920s as a further development in the series of designs produced by Messerschmitt, based on the M 18. Like the M 18 and its follow-on, the M 20, it was a high-wing cantilever monoplane with a fully enclosed cabin and fixed tailwheel undercarriage. It was slightly smaller than the M 20, seating only eight passengers instead of the ten that could be carried by the previous aircraft.
Two prototypes were initially built with BMW and Junkers inline engines, followed by two more with BMW-built Pratt & Whitney radials. However, Messerschmitt proved unable to sell the design, possibly due at least in part to the enmity of Deutsche Luft Hansa director Erhard Milch towards Messerschmitt.
The first M 24a (Junkers-engined, registered D-1767) was used commercially from 1930 by Nordbayerische Verkersflug on the Dresden-Chemnitz-Plauen-Nuremberg route, until it was lost in 1934.


== Variants ==
M 24a - prototypes with BMW Va and Junkers L5G engines (two built)
M 24b - prototypes with BMW-built Pratt & Whitney Hornet engines (two built)


== Specifications (M 24b) ==
General characteristics

Crew: two
Capacity: eight passengers
Length: 12.80 m (42 ft 0 in)
Wingspan: 20.60 m (27 ft 7 in)
Height: 4.20 m (13 ft 9 in)
Wing area: 43 m2 (462 sq ft)
Empty weight: 1,480 kg (3,260 lb)
Gross weight: 3,000 kg (6,600 lb)
Powerplant: 1 × BMW-built Pratt & Whitney Hornet , 447 kW (600 hp)
Performance

Maximum speed: 220 km/h (140 mph, 120 kn)
Range: 800 km (500 mi, 430 nmi)
Service ceiling: 5,500 m (18,000 ft)


== Notes ==


== References ==
Smith, J Richard (1971). Messerschmitt an aircraft album. London: Ian Allan. ISBN 0-7110-0224-X.
Szigeti, Marton (July 1998). "Messerschmitt History: Civil Projects". Flug Revue. Archived from the original on 2008-11-20. Retrieved 2008-10-24.
Taylor, Michael J. H. (1989). Jane's Encyclopedia of Aviation. London: Studio Editions. ISBN 0-7106-0710-5.
The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Aircraft. London: Aerospace Publishing.

Helcystogramma perceptella is a moth in the family Gelechiidae. It was described by August Busck in 1914. It is found in Panama.
The wingspan is 14–15 mm. The forewings are blackish brown with a violet sheen and with three, large, conspicuous, reddish orange blotches occupying about half of the wing space. The first of these orange spots lies on the basal third of the costa and extends obliquely outward and downward over the cell beyond the fold, nearly, but not quite, to the dorsal edge, ending in a sharp point above the middle of the dorsum. The second ochreous spot lies on the apical third of the costa, is like the first, irregularly pentagonal, with a point toward but not reaching the dorsum and a sharp attenuated point toward the apex. The third smaller orange spot, on the costa, just before the apex is drop shaped and is continued as a submarginal yellow line along the termen and dorsum, ending between the two large orange spots. The hindwings are nearly black.


== References ==

Joseph Hodkinson (3 May 1889 – 18 June 1954) was an English international footballer who played as an outside left.


== Career ==
Born in Lancaster, Hodkinson played professionally for Glossop and Blackburn Rovers, and earned three caps for England between 1913 and 1919. He also represented the Football League twice.


== References ==

Momodou Ceesay (born 24 December 1988) is a Gambian former professional footballer who played as a forward. He played for the Gambia national team internationally.


== Club career ==
Ceesay started his football career playing for his home town club of Kanifing United. Ceesay came to Žilina in summer 2010 signing half-year contract and he scored in his first the Corgoň Liga match on 31 July 2010. He expressively helped to promotion of Žilina to the 2010–11 UEFA Champions League, scoring three goals in the qualifying rounds.
Ceesay left Kairat Almaty on 7 July 2015, after his contract was terminated by mutual consent. In September 2015 he signed for Maccabi Netanya
On 28 June 2018, Kyzylzhar announced the signing of Ceesay.
On 18 June 2019, Ceesay was released by Irtysh Pavlodar, returning to Kyzylzhar in July 2019.


== International career ==
Ceesay made his debut for the Gambia national team against Mexico on 30 May 2010. In his second international match he scored his first goal for Gambia against Namibia on 4 September 2010.


== Personal life ==
Ceesay's younger brother, Ali, was also a professional footballer. He last played for Skonto Rīga in the Latvian Higher League in 2014.


== Career statistics ==
Scores and results list Gambia's goal tally first.


== Honours ==
MŠK Žilina

Slovak First League: 2011–12
Slovak Cup: 2011–12; runner-up: 2010–11
Kairat

Kazakhstan Cup: 2014
Gambia U17

African U-17 Championship: 2005


== References ==


== External links ==
MŠK Žilina profile at the Wayback Machine (archived 2011-07-25)
Momodou Ceesay at National-Football-Teams.com
Momodou Ceesay at Soccerway

The Wenhua Road Night Market (Chinese: 文化路夜市; pinyin: Wénhuà Lù Yèshì) is a night market in West District, Chiayi City, Taiwan.


== Architecture ==
The night market stretches along the Wenhua Road for around half a kilometer. The southern section of the road is divided by a central foundation, which acts as a two-lane road during day time and pedestrian zone during night time.


== Features ==
The night market features famous Chiayi snacks and delicacies. Many popular restaurants and traditional dishes can be found along the night market road.


== Transportation ==
The night market is accessible within walking distance east of Chiayi Station of Taiwan Railway, south of Alishan Forest Railway or North of Chiayi BRT Bunhua Rd. intersection Bus stop.


== See also ==

List of night markets in Taiwan


== References ==

The Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD; Filipino: Kagawaran ng Kagalingan at Pagpapaunlad Panlipunan) is the executive department of the Philippine government responsible for the protection of the social welfare of rights of Filipinos and to promote social development.


== History ==


=== American colonial era ===
In 1915, the Public Welfare Board (PWB) was created and tasked with studying, coordinating and regulating all government and private entities engaged in social services. In 1921, the PWB was abolished and replaced by the Bureau of Public Welfare under the Department of Public Instruction.
Commonwealth Act No. 430 enacted in May 31, 1939 created the Department of Health and Public Welfare. In 1941, the Bureau of Public Welfare officially became a part of the Department of Health and Public Welfare. In addition to coordinating services of all public and private social welfare institutions, the Bureau also managed all public child-caring institutions and the provision of child welfare services.


=== Post-World War ===
In 1947, President Manuel Roxas abolished the Bureau of Public Welfare and created the Social Welfare Commission, under the Office of the President, in its place.


=== As the Department of Social Welfare ===
In 1968, Republic Act 5416, known as the Social Welfare Act of 1968, created the Department of Social Welfare, placing it under the executive branch of government. In 1976, the Department of Social Welfare was renamed Department of Social Services and Development (DSSD) through Presidential Decree No. 994. This was signed into law by President Ferdinand Marcos and gave the department an accurate institutional identity. On June 2, 1978, the DSSD was renamed Ministry of Social Services and Development (MSSD) in line with the change in the form of government.


=== As the Department of Social Welfare and Development ===
The MSSD was reorganized and renamed the Department of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD) through Executive Order 123, which was signed by President Corazon Aquino. Executive Order No. 292 in 1987, also known as the Revised Administration Code.
In 1991, the passage of Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise known as the Local Government Code, affected the devolution of DSWD basic services to local government units.


== Organizational structure ==
The department is headed by the Secretary of Social Welfare and Development, with the following eleven undersecretaries and 20 assistant secretaries:

Undersecretary for Social Welfare and Development
Undersecretary for General Administration and Support Services Group
Undersecretary for Operations Group
Undersecretary for Disaster Response Management Group
Undersecretary for Policy and Plans Group
Undersecretary for Standards and Capacity Building
Undersecretary for National Household Targeting System and Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program
Undersecretary for Special Concerns
Undersecretary for Innovations
Undersecretary for Inclusive and Sustainable Peace
Undersecretary for Legislative Coordination and External Affairs
Assistant Secretary for Strategic Communications
Assistant Secretary for Policy and Plans
Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs under PPG
Assistant Secretary for External Assistance and Development under PPG
Assistant Secretary for Administration under GASSG
Assistant Secretary for Finance under GASSG
Assistant Secretary for SCBG
Assistant Secretary for DRMG
Assistant Secretary for Specialized Programs under Operations Group
Assistant Secretary for Statutory Programs under Operations Group
Assistant Secretary for Regional Operations under Operations Group
Assistant Secretary for the National Household Targeting System for Poverty Reduction
Assistant Secretary for the Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program
Assistant Secretary for Inclusive-Sustainable Peace and Special Concerns
Assistant Secretary for Community Engagement
Assistant Secretary for Innovations
Assistant Secretary for Partnerships Building and Resource Mobilization under the Office of the Secretary
Assistant Secretary for International Affairs, and Attached and Supervised Agencies under the Office of the Secretary
Assistant Secretary/Chief Information Officer under the Office of the Secretary
Assistant Secretary/Special Assistant to the Secretary for Centers and Residential Care Facilities


== Attached agencies ==
Council for the Welfare of Children
National Authority for Child Care (NACC)
Juvenile Justice and Welfare Council
National Council on Disability Affairs


== Supervised agencies ==
National Anti-Poverty Commission
National Commission on Indigenous Peoples
Presidential Commission for the Urban Poor


== Programs and Services ==


=== Kalahi CIDSS – NCDDP ===
The Kapit-Bisig Laban sa Kahirapan – Comprehensive and Integrated Delivery of Social Services – National Community-Driven Development Program (Kalahi CIDSS–NCDDP) is the community-driven development program of the Philippine Government implemented through the Department of Social Welfare and Development. Supplemented by the government of the Philippines.


=== The Pantawid pamilyang Pilipino Program ===
The Pantawid Pamilyang Pilipino Program or "4Ps" (conditional cash transfer) is a human development program that invests in the health and education of poor families, primarily those with children aged 0–18.


=== Sustainable Livelihood Program ===
The Sustainable Livelihood Program (SLP) is a community-based capacity building effort that seeks to improve the program participants’ socio-economic status through two tracks: Micro-enterprise Development and Employment Facilitation.


=== Listahanan ===
An information management system that identifies who and where the poor are in the country. It is being operated by the National Household Targeting System for Poverty Reduction (NHTS-PR).


=== Supplemental Feeding Program ===
Provision of food in addition to the regular meals, to target children as part of the DSWD's ECCD program of the government.


=== Disaster Response Operations ===
Life-saving emergency relief and long-term response.


=== RRPTP ===
Recovery and Reintegration Program for Trafficked Persons (RRTP) is a comprehensive package of programs and services, enhancing the psychosocial and economic needs of the beneficiaries.


=== PAMANA ===

Payapa at Masaganang Pamayanan (PAMANA) aims to improve access of poor communities to basic social services and promote responsive governance.


=== Protective Services Program ===
Assistance to Individuals In Crisis Situations (AICS) and Assistance to Communities in Needs (ACN)
Provides a range of interventions to individuals, families, and communities in crisis or difficult situations and vulnerable or disaster-affected communities.


=== ISWSFN ===
International Social Welfare Services for Filipino Nationals is a program for migrant Filipinos and other overseas Filipino nationals who are in crisis situation and in need of special protection are encouraged to seek assistance in the Philippine Embassies in their countries of destination.


=== Center and Residential Care Facilities ===
Services rendered in facilities 24-hour that provide alternative family care arrangement to poor, vulnerable and disadvantaged individuals or families in crisis.


=== Adoption and Foster Care ===
The act of adoption, of permanently placing a minor with a parent or parents other than the birth parents in the Philippines.


=== Gender and Development ===
Gender is about relations—between men and women, women and women, also between men and men and boys and girls. The GAD as perspective recognizes that gender concerns cut across all areas of development and therefore gender must influence government when it plans, budget for, implements, monitors and evaluates policies, programs and projects for development.


=== BUB ===
Pilot tested in 2013 and now on its 3rd cycle, the Bottom-Up Budgeting (BUB) Process is proposed to ensure implementation of priority poverty reduction projects.


== Secretaries ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

Garnier de Traînel (or Traisnel; died 14 April 1205) was the bishop of Troyes from 1193 until his death. He took part in the Fourth Crusade (1202–1204) and in the founding of the Latin Empire.
A younger son of Garnier I, lord of Pont-sur-Seine and Traînel, Garnier was very old when he became a bishop. His uncle, Philippe de Pont, had previously been bishop of Troyes from 1083 to 1121, and his older brother, Ponce II, is recorded in a document from 1104.


== First pilgrimage ==
In 1197, Garnier set out to visit the Holy Land in fulfillment of a vow. One of the purposes of his journey was to settle some disputes troubling the church of Troyes through the intervention of Count Henry II of Champagne, then ruling the Kingdom of Jerusalem in right of his wife, Queen Isabella I. He got only so far as Piacenza when news reached him of the death of Henry on 10 September. In light of his vow he continued his journey into Tuscany, but there was met by some friends returning from the Holy Land, who informed him that the French were all leaving and that Jerusalem was dominated by the Germans who had just come over. After receiving permission from Pope Innocent III to fulfill his vow with a cash payment for the defence of the Holy Land, Garnier returned to Champagne. In a surviving letter, Innocent praises Garnier for his undertaking in light of his age: "Not the disadvantage of imminent old age, nor the danger of the route, neither the doubtful fealty and constant inconstancy of the sea have deterred [you]."


== Fourth Crusade ==
Garnier took a second vow to go to the Holy Land in 1199. He was with the crusader army that massed in Venice in 1202, and he accompanied it to the Siege of Zara (1202), thence to Corfu (1203) and finally the Sack of Constantinople (1204). He and the other clergy functioned as the conscience of the army, and they absolved the crusaders of wrongdoing for the sieges of Zara and Constantinople. Geoffrey of Villehardouin explicitly names the bishop of Troyes (li vesque de Troie) as among the clergy declaring the war to be just and right (droituriere).
Garnier appears to have been among the most trusted men in the crusader army. Early in 1204, Henry of Flanders defeated the Emperor Alexios V Mourtzouphlos in battle and captured an important icon that the imperial forces had been carrying. He gave the icon to Garnier for safekeeping. Likewise, after the fall of Constantinople, the numerous icons and relics plundered from the city's churches were given to Garnier on the order of the Papal legate, Peter of Capua, pending a final division of the booty. He refused to release the head of Saint Mammes to the priest Walon de Dampierre, who only obtained it from the legate after Garnier's death.
Garnier was one of the six ecclesiastical electors who, together with six Venetian electors, chose the new emperor, Baldwin I, on 9 May 1204. During the coronation festivities on 17 May, Garnier and the bishops of Soissons, Halberstadt and Bethlehem blessed the crown and placed it on Baldwin's head, then led him to the throne.
In a church dedicated to Saint Victor by the Golden Gate, Garnier discovered a relic of the head of the saint. At the request of his own chaplain, Peter, he had the head sent back to Pierre de Corbeil, archbishop of Sens and his superior. The archbishop in turn gifted the relic to the Canons Regular of Saint Victor in Paris.
Garnier died on 14 April 1205 in Constantinople and was buried there. On that same day, the crusaders suffered a major defeat at Adrianople against the Bulgarians.


== Notes ==


== Sources ==


== Further reading ==

Butley is a 1974 American-British drama film directed by Harold Pinter and starring Alan Bates, Jessica Tandy, Richard O'Callaghan, Susan Engel, and Michael Byrne. It was adapted by Simon Gray from his 1971 play of same name. It was produced by Ely Landau and released through Landau's American Film Theatre.


== Plot ==
The title character, a literature professor and longtime T. S. Eliot scholar with a recently developed interest in Beatrix Potter, is a suicidal alcoholic, who loses his wife and his male lover on the same day. The dark comedy encompasses several hours in which he bullies students, friends, and colleagues, while falling apart at the seams. Apart from an opening sequence of Butley waking in the flat he shares with Joey, with a hangover and taking the Underground and occasional shots in the corridor and the pub at lunchtime, the entire film takes place in Butley's office also shared with Joey who is unable to do any work while Butley shouts and cajoles in turn. We discover progressively, scene after scene, mostly in the presence of Joey, that he lives with Joey, a past student now his assistant whom he had 'groomed' as he perversely put it himself ("I watched your neck while you were shaving"), fresh from high school, to be his long-suffering companion. We learn that Joey's tenure hangs on Butley's will. On that day, as another character, Reg, puts it, he undergoes two, even three divorces: with his ephemeral wife, with Joey, who reveals he has met someone else (Reg, whose name Butley pretends to ignore), and with a new undergraduate Butley has managed to lure away from his tutor, Edna. This pattern culminates in some of the most homophobic language ever heard on film, with a long, loud, unremitting deluge of expletives and vulgarities — until he is punched by Reg. Joey, who expresses compassion and is about to fall into the trap, then collects himself, and, literally, collects his belongings and moves to a new, tiny office vacated by Edna. The break-up is final, at home and at work. The film ends with Butley starting a tutorial with the new student, then turning against him, and hurling abuse at him. The student, first leaves with a look of clear despise. The homosexual abuse was first hinted at when Butley called the chair "a fairy queen".
In his introduction to the trade edition of the play, the film's director Harold Pinter wrote:

Simon Gray asked me to direct Butley in 1970. I found its savage, lacerating wit hard to beat and accepted the invitation. . . . The extraordinary thing about Butley, it still seems to me, is that the play gives us a character who hurls himself towards the destruction while living, in the fever of his intellectual hell, with a vitality and brilliance known to few of us. He courts death by remaining ruthlessly – even dementedly – alive. It's a remarkable creation and Alan Bates as Butley gave the performance of a lifetime.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
The film was shot at Shepperton Studios. The Executive Producer was Otto Plaschkes and the cinematographer was Gerry Fisher.


== Reception ==
The Monthly Film Bulletin wrote: "Generically speaking, Ben Butley is an all-too-familiar breed: by Lucky Jim out of Jimmy Porter, he stands, like the hero of Osborne's Inadmissible Evidence, poised with inbred pugnacity on the brink of total disintegration. His tirade of invective, delivered with lacerating relish by Alan Bates, beautifully modulated by Pinter's sense of timing, and cunningly backlighted by the now obligatory touch of cosy professional outrage ... is often very funny and always easy on the ear. One is left, however, with the uncomfortable feeling that it is all much ado about the same old thing: the articulate attack on Establishment attitudes in favour of unspecified values, the plea for human relationships rather than social conveniences, even the sense that there are no good brave causes left, literary or otherwise.... Arguably, in a play about an English lecturer, literary allusions are justified as more than mere cultural name-dropping. ... It may well be that the very discreet 'opening out' of both Simon Gray's play (mainly in the opening sequence) and Harold Pinter's stage production (mostly in the somewhat arbitrary use of cuts and close-ups) ... gnaws destructive little holes in the theatrical conventions. At any rate, one becomes increasingly aware of the artifice which keeps Ben Butley tied to his office while assorted messengers arrive with the news, in confirmation of his self-diagnosis that "One likes people to be consistent, otherwise one will start coming adrift", that the world is moving on through the changing circumstances of everyone close to him."


== See also ==
List of American films of 1974


== References ==


== External links ==
Butley at IMDb
​Butley​ at the Internet Broadway Database

Oscar León Navas (born April 4, 1974) is a Colombian former professional boxer who competed from 1996 to 2011. He challenged for the WBA featherweight title in 2003, as the WBA and WBC interim featherweight titles in 2003 and 2006, respectively.


== Pro career ==


=== WBA Featherweight Championship ===
In 2003 Oscar lost two very disputed twelve round split-decisions to Derrick Gainer and Chris John for the WBA World Featherweight championship.


=== Interim WBC Featherweight Championship ===
On February 17, 2006, León was knocked out by Humberto Soto in the ninth round, for the WBC Featherweight championship.


== Professional boxing record ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Boxing record for Oscar León from BoxRec (registration required)

Minor league baseball teams were based in Lafayette, Louisiana between 1907 and 2000. Lafayette teams played as members of the 1907 Gulf Coast League, the 1920 Louisiana State League, and the Evangeline League (1934–1942, 1948–1957). Lafayette teams won four league championships and one pennant in the era. The early Lafayette teams preceded the 1975 and 1976 Lafayette Drillers, who played as members of the Texas League and the 1998 to 2000 Bayou Bullfrogs of the Texas-Louisiana League.
Lafayette teams played as minor league affiliates of the St. Louis Browns from 1936 to 1941, the Chicago Cubs from 1955 to 1957, and the San Francisco Giants in 1975 and 1976.


== History ==
In 1907, Minor League Baseball began in Lafayette. The Lafayette Browns became members of the six–team Class D level Gulf Coast League. The Lafayette Browns finished with a 48–64 record and in 5th place in the 1907 regular standings. Lafayette played along with the Lake Charles Creoles (74–46), eventual champion Alexandria White Sox (64–50), Monroe Municipals (63–55), Orange Hoo-Hoos (50–65) and Opelousas Indians (48–67). The Lafayette franchise folded following the 1907 season.
Minor league baseball returned in 1920, with the Lafayette Hubs. The Hubs were members of the short–lived Louisiana State League. On July 15, 1920, the Hubbs were in third place with a 36–31 record when the six–team league folded.


=== Evangeline League ===
After 12 years, the Lafayette White Sox began play as charter members of the 1934 Evangeline League, winning the first league championship. The White Sox won their first league championship in 1934 and another in 1939. Their 1939 regular season record was 93–49. On April 21, 1935, White Sox pitcher William Dowie threw a no–hitter against the Rayne Rice Birds, winning 3–0. Lafayette had a second no–hitter on May 2, 1939, when Lafayette pitcher Cornelius English pitched a no–hitter in a 4–0 victory over the Alexandria Aces. Despite the moniker, the White Sox were affiliates of the St. Louis Browns from 1936 to 1941. On May 22, 1942, the Lafayette White Sox franchise disbanded.
In 1948, the Lafayette Bulls returned to play as members of the Evangeline League, taking the spot of the Natchez franchise which had left to join the Cotton States League.  Lafayette would remain in the league until it folded after the 1957 season. The Bulls captured the regular season title in 1950. The franchise changed their moniker to become the Lafayette Oilers in 1954. The Oilers were affiliates of the Chicago Cubs from 1955 to 1957. The Oilers won the 1955 Evangeline League Championship and had the best record in the 1956 season when no playoffs took place. On June 20, 1957, the team disbanded.
The Evangeline League permanently folded following the 1957 season and had never become an integrated league, despite the efforts of major league affiliates (the Chicago Cubs) to assign players to the Lafayette Oilers and integrate team rosters. In 1956, some boycotts of attending games occurred after the Lafayette Oilers refused to accept the players and Lafayette Parrish, home of the Baton Rouge Rebels, passed legislation making it illegal for black players to play in its ballparks. The Evangeline League itself also officially banned non-white players from appearing on their rosters. These blocks forced the major league teams to reassign the players to other leagues. Due to boycotts, the 1956 playoff finals, featuring Lafayette, were cancelled. Both the Lafayette Oilers and the Baton Rouge Rebels folded before the end of the 1957 season, on June 20, 1957.


=== Texas League ===

Minor league baseball returned to Lafayette, Louisiana in 1975. The Lafayette Drillers began play as an affiliate of the San Francisco Giants. The Drillers became members of the Class AA Texas League and won the Texas League Championship in their first season. Lafayette finished 72–57 to finish first in the Eastern Division. In the 1975 playoffs, the Midland Cubs and Lafayette Drillers were tied 2 games to 2 when rain prevented completion of the series. The teams were declared co–champions. After finishing 58–76 in the 1976 season, the franchise was purchased by the Texas Rangers and relocated to become the Tulsa Drillers.


=== Texas-Louisiana League ===
Beginning in 1998, the Bayou Bullfrogs played as members of the Independent level Texas-Louisiana League through 2000. In 1998, Lafayette finished 36–48, placing fifth in the standings, under managers Andy Skeels and Steve Dillard. The Bullfrogs folded after the 2000 season, after placing sixth with a 32–51 record in 1999 and seventh with a 46–66 record in 2000.


== The ballparks ==
From 1934 to 1942, the Lafayette White Sox played at Parkdale Park. The ballpark had a capacity of 3,500, with dimensions of (Left, Center, Right): 303–375–280. Parkdale Park was located at East Simcoe & Jefferson Boulevard in Lafayette, Louisiana.
Beginning in 1954, Lafayette teams played at Clark Field, newly built on a filled-in lake.  The ballpark was torn down in 2000.

The Bayou Bullfrogs played at Tigue Moore Field from 1998 to 2000. Built in 1979, the ballpark is still in use today, as home to the Louisiana Ragin' Cajuns baseball team. The ballpark is located at 121 Reinhardt Drive, Lafayette, Louisiana.


== Timeline ==


== Notable alumni ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Lafayette - Baseball Reference
Clark Field Photos[link removed]

Ludwig Stroh (2 February 1910 – 6 July 1990) was an Austrian footballer who played for RC Strasbourg, FC Basel and FC Rouen in the 1930s. He played as midfielder.
Stroh joined Basel's first team from RC Strasbourg in the summer of 1935 for their 1935–36 season. He played his domestic league debut for the club in the away game on 25 August as Basel were defeated 2–3 by St. Gallen.
While playing his season for Basel, Stroh played a total of 11 games for the club. Seven of these games were in the Nationalliga, one was in the Swiss Cup and three other games were friendly games.
After his time in Switzerland Stroh returned to France and continued his playing career by FC Rouen.


== References ==


== Sources ==
Rotblau: Jahrbuch Saison 2017/2018. Publisher: FC Basel Marketing AG. ISBN 978-3-7245-2189-1
Die ersten 125 Jahre. Publisher: Josef Zindel im Friedrich Reinhardt Verlag, Basel. ISBN 978-3-7245-2305-5
Verein "Basler Fussballarchiv" Homepage

Live '05 is a live album by Meat Beat Manifesto initially sold during their live tour in 2006. Left over copies were sold online via the band's official website. The concert recorded took place at Cabaret Metro in Chicago on June 22, 2005. This is a limited edition of 1,000 and each disc is packaged in a digipak signed and customized by Jack Dangers. On the reverse side, near the center of the disc, the text "NEAT BEAT MANIFESTO-LIVE '05" is printed.


== Credits ==
Video Sampler, Vocals, Synthi Aks, Bass Flute: Jack Dangers
Video Sampler, DVJ: Ben Stokes
Sampler, Serge Modular: Mark Pistel
Drums: Lynn Farmer


== Track listing ==
"I Am Electro" - 6:25
"Spinning Round" - 5:31
"Hello Teenage Amerika" - 5:52
"Radio Babylon" - 8:20
"God O.D." - 5:45
"No Purpose No Design" - 5:27
"It's The Music" - 5:57
"Nuclear Bomb" - 6:12
"Helter Skelter" - 8:18
"Edge Of No Control" - 5:18
"Prime Audio Soup" - 7:02
"Do It With Soul" - 4:46


== References ==

William Pitt (William Frederick Pate) is an American-born pop singer whose single "City Lights" became a hit in several European countries in 1987.


== Biography ==
William Pitt started singing and playing guitar in 1955 when he acquired a Sears Roebuck Harmony guitar. During the 1980s, while living in Paris, William Pitt was signed to a record deal by music producer Pascal Wüthrich.
William Pitt's single "City Lights" became a hit on its first release in France, in 1986. After this, it became a hit in several other European countries following a re-release in 1987. In the Netherlands, "City Lights" reached the Top 20. The song was a disco hit in Italy during the summer of 1986, and reached the charts in 1987, peaking at 17. William Pitt's follow-up single "Funny Girl" only made it to the lower regions of the German and Belgium charts. A comeback single was released in 1990.


== Discography ==


=== Singles ===


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Trollope, Matt (2021). CENTREFORCE: HOUSE MUSIC ALL NIGHT LONG. MT Ink.co.uk. ISBN 978-1-8383883-1-7.


== External links ==
Official music 'City Lights'
William Pitt at Discogs.
https://mx3.ch/justcallmewilliam

Katy Butler (born 1949) is an American journalist, essayist and author of Knocking on Heaven's Door, the Path to a Better Way of Death, (Scribner, 2013) and The Art of Dying Well: A Practical Guide to a Good End of Life (Simon & Schuster, 2019).


== Career ==
Attended Sarah Lawrence College and earned a BA from Wesleyan University in Middletown, Connecticut.
Teaches writing at the Esalen Institute and was a speaker at The Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard's 2008 and 2009 conferences on Narrative Nonfiction. Awarded writing residencies at Mesa Refuge, Hedgebrook, and Blue Mountain Center.
In the 1980s she exposed abuses of sexuality and power by leaders of American Buddhist communities.
She speaks at hospitals, medical schools and other locations about improving end-of-life medicine and the doctor-patient relationship.


== Publications ==
Butler's essays and articles have appeared in The New York Times Magazine, The New Yorker,The Wall Street Journal, Mother Jones, the Los Angeles Times Sunday Magazine, New West Magazine, Vogue, The Village Voice, Tricycle (The Buddhist Quarterly), More magazine, Psychotherapy Networker magazine, among others. Her writing career began with an internship at the San Francisco Bay Guardian, followed by a stint as a staff reporter for the San Francisco Chronicle that lasted for 12 years.


=== Books ===
Knocking on Heaven's Door: The Path to a Better Way of Death (2013) The New York Times called Knocking on Heaven's Door a "thoroughly researched and compelling mix of personal narrative and hard-nosed reporting" and named it one of their 100 Notable Books of 2013. The book also received a Books for a Better Life Award in 2014 and was a finalist for the Dayton Literary Peace Prize.
The Art of Dying Well: A Practical Guide to a Good End of Life (2019) is a guide to reducing the risks of medical overtreatment and finding those helpful medical allies in the last third of life.


== Awards and honors ==
In 2010, the Nieman Foundation named "What Broke My Father's Heart," an essay about how a pacemaker forced her "father's heart to outlive his brain" a "notable narrative." The essay, first published in the New York Times Magazine, also won awards for national journalism from the National Association of Science Writers and the Association of Health Care Journalists. Butler's essays have appeared in Best American Essays, Best American Science Writing and Best Buddhist Writing. In 2004, she was a finalist for a National Magazine Award for an essay about applying traditional religious practices to the chaos of modern life.


== Personal life ==
Married to Brian Donohue and lives in the San Francisco Bay Area. Born in South Africa in 1949. Grew up in England and the Boston area. A Buddhist since 1977, Butler was lay ordained by the Vietnamese monk Thich Nhat Hanh and has co-led small meditation groups.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Appearances on C-SPAN
Butler, Katy. "Encountering the Shadow in Buddhist America", primary published in: Common Boundary Magazine, May/June 1990
Butler, Katy. "The Good Daughter: Becoming the Family Caregiver", More, May 2007.
Butler, Katy. "What Broke My Father’s Heart", The New York Times Magazine, June 14, 2010.
Pitzer, Andrea. "Katy Butler on Greek tragedy, reader comments and how “scenes keep you close to the bone truth of things”", Nieman Storyboard, July 6, 2010.

TP, Tp, tP, tp, or T&P may refer to:


== Arts, entertainment and media ==


=== Fictional characters ===
T. P. Balagopalan, of T. P. Balagopalan M. A., a 1986 Indian Malayalam-language comedy drama film
Time Pilfer Lady, or Hitomi Aino, in Japanese anime series Flint the Time Detective
Talita Aleni née Palele, a Shortland Street character introduced in 1993
Te Aroha Pene, in New Zealand TV show The Killian Curse
Tommy Pickles, in animated children's TV series Rugrats and All Grown Up!


=== Music ===
Tonic parallel (Tp and tP), a kind of chord in music theory
TP (Teddy Pendergrass album), 1980
TP, or Tony Parker, a 2007 album by Tony Parker
A series of R&B studio albums by R. Kelly: 12 Play (1993), TP-2.com (2000), TP.3 Reloaded (2005)


=== Television ===
TPs, characters in The Tomorrow People, a British science fiction TV series
TP de Oro (initially Los mejores de TP; 1972–2011), a Spanish annual awards series
Talking Pictures TV (TPTV), a British TV channel
Telewizja Polska (known as TP 1976–1992), a public service broadcaster in Poland


=== Other uses in arts, entertainment and media ===
Time Patrol Bon (T・Pぼん), a Japanese manga series by Fujiko F. Fujio
Theater paddle, or stage pin connector, a standard cable type for theatrical lighting
Tension points, a character state property in Deltarune and Xenoblade Chronicles X
Tractatus Politicus, a writing by Baruch Spinoza in 1675–77


== Business and organisations ==


=== Businesses ===
TP ICAP, British financial services firm
TP-Link, Chinese technology company
TP Tea, a bubble tea shop chain in Taiwan
TP Vision, Dutch consumer electronics manufacturer
TP (Telekomunikacja Polska), now Orange Polska, Polish telecommunications provider
PT Portugal, now Altice Portugal, telecommunications service provider in Portugal
Tata Power, Indian electric utility and electricity generation company
Teleperformance, French business process outsourcer


=== Organisations ===
People's Party (Latvia) (Tautas partija), a political party
Tendencia proletaria ('proletarian tendency'), a faction of the Sandinista National Liberation Front, a Nicaraguan political party
Terre et Peuple, a cultural association in France
Temasek Polytechnic, education institution in Singapore


== Language and linguistics ==
tp (digraph), pronounced in Yélî Dnye as /t̪͡p/
Tibetan pinyin (Chinese: 藏文拼音, romanized: Zàngwén Pīnyīn, ZWPY), the official transcription system for the Tibetan language in China
Tense phrase, in X-bar theory


== People ==
Thomas Bennett (architect) (1887–1980), English architect with practice TP Bennett
T. P. Chandrasekharan (1960–2012), Indian politician
TP Fielden, pen-name of writer Christopher Wilson (born 1947)
T. P. Figgis (1858–1948), British architect
T. P. Gill (1858–1931), Irish journalist and politician
T. P. Kailasam (1884–1946), Indian playwright and writer
T. P. Madhavan (1935–2024), Indian actor
T. P. McKenna (1929–2011), Irish actor
T. P. O'Connor (1848–1929), Irish politician and journalist
T. P. Rajeevan (1959–2022), Indian novelist
Rehenesh T. P. (born 1993), Indian footballer
TP Sudhindra (born 1984), Indian cricketer
T. P. Cameron Wilson (1888–1918), English poet and novelist
T. P. Wiseman (born 1940), English scholar
Heitor Pereira (born 1960), or Hector TP, Brazilian composer


== Places ==
Toa Payoh, a planning area and residential town in Singapore
Tai Po, an area in Hong Kong
Tunjungan Plaza, a shopping center in Indonesia
Portuguese Timor (1702–1975), ISO 3166 code TP
TP, for thành phố, 'city' in Vietnamese
Tigné Point, Sliema, Malta (postal code: TP)
Province of Trapani, Sicily, Italy (ISO 3166 code: IT-TP; vehicle registration code: TP)


== Science and technology ==


=== Astronomy and cosmology ===
Time of perihelion passage (tp), an orbital element (parameter)
Thermally pulsing asymptotic giant branch (TP-AGB), a phase of some stars' lifecycle
a provisional designation in astronomy for the 15th (or with a suffix, 40th, 65th, etc.) minor planet discovered in the first half of October of each year
Planck time (tP), a Planck unit in cosmology


=== Chemistry ===
Tp ligands, a class of scorpionate ligands
Trispyrazolylborate (Tp−), a chemical ligand
Total phosphorus, a measure of the amount of element 15 present
Thermoplastic polyester, a kind of polymer


=== Electronics and computing ===
.tp, the 1997–2015 Internet domain of Timor-Leste (Timor Português)
Teleprocessing monitor, or TP Monitor, control program that monitors data transfers between terminals
Test point, in electronics
Tidal power, technology to extract energy from tides
tp, system pulse duration, in glossary of power electronics
Technical preview or technology preview, the beta stage of the software release life cycle
Turbo Pascal, a software development system for programming language Pascal
Twisted pair cabling, in telecommunications
Transparency Platform, of European Network of Transmission System Operators for Electricity
Sony Vaio TP series (2007–2008), living room PCs


=== Medicine and biochemistry ===
Temporal pole, a part of the human brain
Toulouse-Piéron Cancellation Test, developed by Louis Charles Henri Piéron and Édouard Toulouse
Serum total protein, a clinical chemistry parameter
Testosterone propionate, an androgen and anabolic steroid medication
Thromboxane prostanoid receptor, a protein found in humans and other mammals
Thymidine phosphorylase, an enzyme and catalyst
Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate, or triose phosphate (TP), a metabolite


== Sports ==
Triple play, denoted as TP in baseball statistics
Tighthead prop, a position in rugby union
Triple Peel, a croquet manoeuvre
TP Formula, a motor racing team based in Italy


== Transportation ==


=== Rail ===
Texas and Pacific Railway, T&P, United States railroad company
KAI Commuter Tanjung Priok Line, a commuter rail line in Jakarta, Indonesia
SJ Tp, a Swedish diesel-hydraulic locomotive
TransPennine Express, British train operating company, reporting mark TP
Tiruchirappalli Fort Railway Station, Tamil Nadu, India, station code TP


=== Other uses in transportation ===
TP, an electric vehicle by Thunder Power
Transport Pool Inc., original name (1968) of TIP Group, Dutch logistics equipment company
Taunsa–Panjnad Link Canal, in Punjab, Pakistan
TAP Air Portugal, IATA airline code TP
Swallow TP, a 1928 trainer aircraft
TP, designation of Harbor Tug, an American Type V ship


== Other uses ==
Tagapangasiwang Pampook, now known as Area Servants (Tagalog: Lingkod Pampook), in the Philippine Members Church of God International
Toilet paper, a tissue paper product
Tight passive, in poker


== See also ==
Tipping point (disambiguation)
Turning Point (disambiguation)
Tribal police (disambiguation)
3P (disambiguation)
Tipi (disambiguation)

The Seven Brothers Islands, also known as the Sawabi Islands or Seba Islands, is an archipelago in the Dact-el-Mayun section of the Bab-el-Mandeb strait (between the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden). They are within the Obock sub-prefecture of Djibouti, and are a notable diving site.  Even in English publications, the group is often called by its French name, îles des Sept Frères.
In 2025, the islands were designated as biosphere reserves by UNESCO.


== Geography ==
The archipelago proper is a chain of six volcanic islands spanning about 10 kilometres (6.2 mi) in a rough east-west line:

West Island, or Red Island (H̱amra), 62 m high
Double Island (Ounḏa Dâbali), 46 m high
Low Island (Tolka), 17 m high
Big Island (Kaḏḏa Dâbali), 114 m high
East Island (H̱orod le ‘Ale), 83 m high
South Island (‘Ounḏa Kômaytou), 47 m high
The "seventh brother" is not an island, but the volcanic hill at the northern tip of the Ras Siyyan peninsula.
West Island lies about 4.5 kilometres (2.8 mi) east from the Siyyan peninsula and 6.0 kilometres (3.7 mi) northeast from the coast of Djibouti.
All the islets are surrounded by reefs. All are brownish, except Big Island, which is yellowish.  There is a masonry marker on the summit of Big Island.


=== Important Bird Area ===
The archipelago has been designated an Important Bird Area (IBA) by BirdLife International because it supports a breeding colony of lesser and greater crested terns. 


=== Climate ===
The warmest month of the year is July with an average temperature of 39.0 °C. The archipelago consists of the main island of Kaḏḏa Dâbali, the five smaller islands of Ounḏa Dâbali, H̱amra, Tolka, H̱orod le ‘Ale, and Ounḏa Kômaytou, as well as small rock outcrops that are uninhabitable for humans but important for seabirds. The sky is always clear and bright throughout the year. The climate of Seven Brothers Islands is classified in the Köppen climate classification as BWh, meaning a desert climate with a mean annual temperature over 29 °C or 84 °F.


== References ==

I Witness Video is an NBC News production primetime series and American informational reality television-based television program that aired on NBC on Sunday night from August 16, 1992 to July 10, 1994. It was first seen as a series of six specials beginning on February 23, 1992, and created the genre of dramatic video footage pre-empting traditional journalism now featured on ABC World News Tonight.


== Overview ==
Each episode featured videos sent in by viewers. The videos shown featured robberies, hostage situations, fires, and natural disasters, including tidal waves, and earthquakes and had interviews with the people involved.  The program received some criticism for airing violent content in what is considered the "family hour".


== References ==

Horaga viola, the brown onyx, a small lycaenid or hairstreak butterfly found in Asia.(Sikkim, Assam, India, Ceylon, Burma)  It is sometimes treated as a subspecies of Horaga albimacula,


== Description ==

Male. Upperside blackish-brown with a slight violet tint. Forewing with a somewhat oval white patch outside the cell, varying in size in different examples. Hindwing without markings, tails black, tipped with white, outer marginal line of both wings finely black. Undersider paler with a stronger violet tint. Forewing with the white patch continued to the hinder margin somewhat constricted at the sub-median vein. Hindwing with a black anal spot, another usually (but not always) in the first interspace and some obscure blackish spots in the others. Antennae black, ringed with white; head and body above and below concolorous with the wings; no sex mark in the male.
Female. Upperside dull greyish-blue. Forewing with the white patch larger than it is in the male, costal black band rather broad, widening gradually from the base to the apex, filling up the whole apical space outside the white patch and broad down the outer margin to the hinder angle. Hindwing with the costal space broadly blackish, with a small white patch on the middle of the costa, the outer margin with a narrow, more or less macular black band, marginal line finely deep black, with an inner white thread. Underside as in the male. 


== See also ==
List of butterflies of India
List of butterflies of India (Lycaenidae)


== Cited references ==


== References ==
Beccaloni, George; Scoble, Malcolm; Kitching, Ian; Simonsen, Thomas; Robinson, Gaden; Pitkin, Brian; Hine, Adrian; Lyal, Chris. "The Global Lepidoptera Names Index (LepIndex)". Natural History Museum, London. Retrieved 2016-10-15.
Bingham, C.T. (1907). The Fauna of British India, Including Ceylon and Burma. Vol. II (1st ed.). London: Taylor and Francis, Ltd.
Evans, W.H. (1932). The Identification of Indian Butterflies (2nd ed.). Mumbai, India: Bombay Natural History Society.
Wynter-Blyth, Mark Alexander (1957). Butterflies of the Indian Region. Bombay, India: Bombay Natural History Society. ISBN 978-8170192329. {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)

Francesco (Franz Wilhelm) Rabaliatti (20 January 1716 – 1782) was a German architect and Court Builder to the Prince-elector Karl Theodor. 
Rabaliatti was born in Gameragna di Stella. His teacher was Alessandro Galli da Bibiena. 
He made a substantial contribution to the planning and construction of the Mannheimer Schloss and with Bibiena he began the construction of the Jesuit Church at Mannheim
Together with Johann Lacher between 1772 and 1774, he built the Mannheim Observatory (today: "The old observatory") for the Jesuit mathematician and court astronomer Christian Mayer. It is a classical five storied octagonal tower. Today it houses an artists studio.
In Heidelberg he designed the " Carolinum " (University of Heidelberg), which was completed in 1765. The baroque Jesuit Church was started in 1711 by Johann Adam Breunig and completed in 1759 by Rabaliatti. The tower was built between 1868 and 1872. 
Following the plans of Bibiena between 1750 and 1755, Rabaliatti, together with Guillaume d'Hauberat, built the southern circular buildings and the Orangery at Schwetzingen Schloss . In the town of Schwetzingen he also built several houses, including his own home, and Palais Hirsch (the Deer Palace).
In 1754/55 he built a baroque church in Mutterstadt for a construction cost of 2580 Guilders, which was extensively restored between 1977 and 1980. In addition in 1756 he produced the drawings for the restoration of the gate tower of Dilsberg. In 1757 he planned the renovation of the local church in Pleisweiler (re-renovated in 1957). The first stone bridge over the Kraichbach in Hockenheim was designed by him in 1764, and he led the 1763 rebuilding of the former tithe barn at Lohrbach as a Catholic church.
Rabaliatti and Nicolas de Pigage conducted many joint projects but were also competitors.

Charaxes kahldeni is a butterfly in the family Nymphalidae. It is found in northern Angola, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Republic of the Congo, Gabon, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Uganda and southern Sudan. Its habitat is forests.


== Description ==
Very similar to Charaxes zoolina. Hindwing underside in cell 1c with a black longitudinal stripe, which extends almost to the anal angle and joins with the similar median strip.


== Description in Seitz ==
Ch. kahldeni. Hindwing beneath in cellule lc with a black 
longitudinal stripe, extending from  the base nearly to the anal angle and posteriorly joined to the median stripe, which is also black- kahldeni Homeyer and Dew. (= W-brunnea Baker). Both wings greenish white; distal and costal margins of the hind wing  narrowly black; from the costal margin arises a black submarginal line, which beneath reaches to vein 1, but  above at furthest to vein 2. Hindwing above only with a fine marginal line and three submarginal spots (in cellules lc-3) black, beneath, in addition to the two stripes already mentioned, with a thick black sub marginal line and a fine marginal line. Cameroons to Angola. In f. homeyeri Dewthe basal half of the forewing above is whitish, the apical part yellow-brown with rust-brown marginal band spotted with yellow; hindwing above whitish with a rust-brown marginal band about 3 mm. in breadth. Under surface brownish, 
sprinkled with darker dots, as in the type-form with longitudinal stripe in 1 c and a median band, but with dark dots instead of the submarginal stripes. Cameroons to Angola; rare. 


== Taxonomy ==
Charaxes kahldeni is a member of the species group Charaxes zoolina. 
The clade members are:

Charaxes zoolina nominate
Charaxes kahldeni
The group differs from all the others in Charaxes in the male having a tail on vein 2, but the female having two long tails on veins 2 and 4. There are two different forms, one with black markings on a greenish-white base colour (wet-season form) and one with reddish-brown markings on red-yellow whitish colour (dry-season form). These forms can be from eggs of the same female.


== References ==

Victor Gurney Logan Van Someren, 1974 Revisional notes on African Charaxes (Lepidoptera: Nymphalidae). Part IX. Bulletin of the British Museum of Natural History (Entomology) 29 (8):415-487. [1]


== External links ==
Pteron Images
Charaxes khaldeni images at Consortium for the Barcode of Life
Images of C. kahldeni Royal Museum for Central Africa (Albertine Rift Project)

Eduard Willem Walch (9 August 1890 – 20 December 1934) was a Dutch professor of health science in the Dutch East Indies with expertise in hygiene and malaria control.


== Career ==
Walch attended Hogere Burgerschool and studied at the University of Amsterdam. He was an assistant of professor Huitinga. He did research into bacteriology and hygiene.
Walch went together his wife to Sumatra, the Dutch East Indies in 1919 starting working at Sanatorium Senembah Mij where he replaced second physician L. Pel. Walch discovered among others that mite larvae that carry pseudotyphoid can also parasitize birds. These birds could so transmit this over great distances. It is stated that tropical hygiene improved due to the research he did together with Wilhelm Schüffner and Keukenschrijver. With a 1923-1924 scholarship of the Rockefeller Foundation he went together with his wife in 1924 to the United States to study hygiene methods and statistics. In the United States he became doctor in the hygiene. Afterwards he worked at the Instituut voor tropische hygiëne (Institute for tropical hygiene) in Amsterdam. He moved back to the Dutch East Indies in 1925 where he became government doctor at the malaria control service. Two years later he became the chief of this service replacing Rodenwaldt. In February 1930 he was appointed full professor of hygiene at the Medical University in Batavia.
Walch was a member of the Dutch delegation and speaker at the Malaria Congress in Algiers in May 1930, together with Nicolaas Swellengrebel and Wilhelm Schüffner. Together with Cornelis de Langen and Willem Alphonse Mijsberg he represented the government of the Dutch East Indies at the International Congress of tropical medicine in Amsterdam in May 1932. In 1933 he spent several months on leave in the Netherlands and went with his wife via China and America, where they did some research, back to the Dutch East Indies. At the 1933 congress of the Far Eastern Association of Tropical Medicine in Nanking, China, where he was a delegate of the Dutch East Indies government, he was elected permanent secretary.


== Personal life and death ==
Walch was born on 9 August 1890 in Schiedam. His father was a French language teacher at the University of Amsterdam. Walch also learned speaking French as he later also spoke at an international congress in French.
Walch played chess and was a member of the students’ Amsterdamsch Schaakgenootschap Philidor. In 1910, Walch lost to American Norman T. Whitaker in a university chess competition of the University of Amsterdam against the University of Pennsylvania.
On 2 May 1918 Walch married to Gijsbertha Berendina Sorgdrager (1882-1964) who was also a doctor. They worked together at many points in time and she became director of Budi Utomo.
In mid-1933 his sister died in the Netherlands, who had also worked in the Dutch East Indies as a plague doctor at the C.B.Z. in Semarang; and who had retired in 1932. On 5 December 1934 he went to the Netherlands due to illness of his mother. During the return flight, after the fourth stopover in Cairo, the airplane crashed in the desert in Iraq, 16 kilometres south of Rutbah Wells and burned out. All three passengers and four crew members, including Walch, were killed.


== References ==

Fallback may refer to:

A contingency plan to be taken if the preferred choice is unavailable
A signal of inferior quality in HD Radio
Fallback font in graphic user interface and typesetting
Fallback voting
Fast Fallback, an IP networking technique
A tactical withdrawal


== See also ==
Fall back, a feature of a modem protocol

Usman Ibrahim  (Urdu: عثمان ابراہیم; born 1 September 1939) is a Pakistani politician who had been a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan from August 2018 till August 2023. Previously, he was a member of the National Assembly from March 2008 to May 2018.
He served as Federal Minister for Defence Production, in Abbasi cabinet in May 2018. Previously, he served as Minister of State for Housing and Works from June 2013 to January 2014, as Minister of State for Capital Administration and Development from January 2014 to November 2015, as Minister of State for Law and Justice from August 2017 to October 2017, and as Minister of State for Human Rights from October 2017 to May 2018.


== Early life and education ==
He was born on 1 September 1939.
He graduated from  Government College University in Lahore before doing law graduation from Punjab University Law College in Lahore. He did Barrister at Law from Lincoln's Inn.


== Political career ==
He had been a member of the Provincial Assembly of the Punjab from 1985 to 1999, and held the portfolio of Minister of Education of Punjab from 1990 to 1993.
He ran for the seat of the National Assembly of Pakistan as a candidate of Pakistan Muslim League (N) (PML-N) from Constituency NA-95 (Gujranwala-I) in the 2002 Pakistani general election, but was unsuccessful and lost the seat to a candidate of Pakistan Peoples Party.
He was elected to the National Assembly from Constituency NA-95 (Gujranwala-I) as a candidate of PML-N in the 2008 Pakistani general election.
He was re-elected to the National Assembly as a candidate of PML-N from Constituency NA-95 (Gujranwala-I) in the 2013 Pakistani general election.
In June 2013, he was appointed the Minister of State for Housing and Works in the Nawaz Sharif cabinet.
Ibrahim was made the state minister for Capital Administration and Development Division and was replaced by Tariq Fazal Chaudhry in November 2015 due to reason government was not satisfied with the performance of Ibrahim. He continued to serve as state minister without portfolio. He had ceased to hold ministerial office in July 2017 when the federal cabinet was disbanded following the resignation of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif after Panama Papers case decision.
Following the election of Shahid Khaqan Abbasi as Prime Minister of Pakistan in August 2017, he was inducted into the federal cabinet of Abbasi. He was made the minister of state for law and Justice. In October 2017, he was made Minister of State for Human Rights.
On 3 May 2018, he was elevated as a federal minister and was appointed  Federal Minister for Defence Production in the federal cabinet of Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi. Upon the dissolution of the National Assembly on the expiration of its term on 31 May 2018, Ibrahim ceased to hold the office as Federal Minister for Defence Production.
He was re-elected to the National Assembly as a candidate of PML-N from Constituency NA-82 (Gujranwala-IV) in the 2018 Pakistani general election.


== References ==

This is a list of Canadian insurance companies.
The top insurance providers in Canada are Manulife, Canada Life (subsidiary of Great-West Lifeco), Sun Life Financial, Desjardins, and IA Financial Group (aka Industrial Alliance). Smaller insurers include those operating as subsidiaries of banks, such as CIBC Insurance and TD Insurance.


== Current insurance carriers ==


=== Bank-affiliated carriers ===
BMO Life
CIBC Insurance
National Bank Insurance
RBC Insurance
Scotia Life
TD Insurance


=== Government-owned insurance companies ===
Insurance Corporation of British Columbia
Manitoba Public Insurance
Saskatchewan Government Insurance
Coachman Insurance Company
Société de l'assurance automobile du Québec


== Defunct insurance companies ==


== See also ==
List of banks and credit unions in Canada
List of trust and loan companies in Canada


== References ==

Asuka Historical National Government Park (国営飛鳥歴史公園, Kokuei Asuka Rekishi Kōen) is a National Government Park established in Asuka, Nara Prefecture, Japan in 1974. The park comprises five areas: the Amakashi-no-Oka Area, where there is an observatory with a view over the old capitals of Asuka and Fujiwara-kyō and of Yamato Sanzan; the Iwaido Area, similarly with views to Yamato Sanzan as well as over the terraced rice fields of "Inner Asuka"; the Ishibutai Area; the Takamatsuzuka Area; and the Kitora Tumulus Area.


== See also ==

Asuka-Fujiwara
Asuka Historical Museum


== References ==


== External links ==
Asuka Historical National Government Park
(in Japanese) Asuka Historical National Government Park

Bernardino de Figueroa (c.1510-November 1586) was a Spanish composer, afterwards Archbishop of Brindisi in Italy.
Figueroa entered the chapel choir in 1518 and was the first maestro de capilla at the Royal Chapel of Granada until 1551, being succeeded by Rodrigo de Ceballos in 1561. He wrote letters recommending the musical theorist Fray Juan Bermudo and in the latter's Perfecting the perfect instrument 1555, a treatise on playing the vihuela, Figueroa was listed before Cristóbal de Morales as having checked and approved the text.
From 26 November 1571 until his death he was Archbishop of Brindisi.
None of Figueroa's compositions is known to survive.


== References ==

Naphtha (, more rarely: ) is a flammable liquid hydrocarbon mixture. Generally, it is a fraction of crude oil, but it can also be produced from natural-gas condensates, petroleum distillates, and the fractional distillation of coal tar and peat.  In some industries and regions, the name naphtha refers to crude oil or refined petroleum products such as kerosene or diesel fuel.
It is used as a dilutant, a fuel and in the production of plastics. 
Naphtha is also known as Shellite in Australia.


== Etymology ==

The word naphtha comes from Latin through Ancient Greek (νάφθα), derived from Middle Persian naft ("wet", "naphtha"), the latter meaning of which was an assimilation from the Akkadian 𒉌𒆳𒊏 napṭu (see Semitic relatives such as Arabic نَفْط nafṭ ["petroleum"], Syriac ܢܰܦܬܳܐ naftā, and Hebrew נֵפְט neft, meaning petroleum).


=== Antiquity ===
The Treaty of Esarhaddon (c. 675 BC) briefly mentions during a listing of curses how "naphtha [shall] be your ointment" if the oath made in the treaty is broken. Further on, it also prescribes the curse:

May they make your flesh and the flesh of your women, your brothers, your sons and your daughters as black as [bitu]men, pitch and naphtha.
The book of II Maccabees (2nd cent. BC) tells how a "thick water" was put on a sacrifice at the time of Nehemiah and when the sun shone it caught fire. It adds that "those around Nehemiah termed this 'Nephthar,' which means Purification, but it is called Nephthaei by the many." This same substance is mentioned in the Mishnah as one of the generally permitted oils for lamps on Shabbat, although Rabbi Tarfon permits only olive oil (Mishnah Shabbat 2). 
In Ancient Greek, it was used to refer to any sort of petroleum or pitch. The Greek word νάφθα designates one of the materials used to stoke the fiery furnace in the Song of the Three Children (possibly 1st or 2nd cent. BC).  The translation of Charles Brenton renders this as "rosin."
The naphtha of antiquity is explained to be a "highly flammable light fraction of petroleum, an extremely volatile, strong-smelling, gaseous liquid, common in oil deposits of the Near East;" it was a chief ingredient in incendiary devices described by Latin authors of the Roman period.


=== Modern period ===
Since the 19th century, solvent naphtha has denoted a product (xylene or trimethylbenzenes) derived by fractional distillation from petroleum; these mineral spirits, also known as "Stoddard Solvent," were originally the main active ingredient in Fels Naptha laundry soap. The naphtha in Fels Naptha was later removed as a cancer risk.
The usage of the term "naphtha" during this time typically implies petroleum naphtha, a colorless liquid with a similar odor to gasoline. However, "coal tar naphtha," a reddish brown liquid that is a mixture of hydrocarbons (toluene, xylene, and cumene, etc.), could also be intended in some contexts.


=== Petroleum ===
Generally, in pre 19th century sources, "naphtha" simply meant crude oil, but this usage is now obsolete in English. There are a number of cognates to the word in different modern languages, typically signifying "petroleum" or "crude oil."
The Ukrainian & Belarusian word нафта (nafta), Lithuanian, Latvian, & Estonian "nafta," and the Persian naft (نفت) mean "crude oil." The Russian word нефть (neft') means "crude oil," but нафта (nafta) is a synonym of ligroin. Also, in Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Finland, Italy, Serbia, Slovenia, and North Macedonia nafta (нафта in Cyrillic) is colloquially used to indicate diesel fuel and crude oil. In the Czech Republic and Slovakia, nafta was historically used for both diesel fuel and crude oil, but its use for crude oil is now obsolete and it generally indicates diesel fuel. In Bulgarian, nafta means diesel fuel, while neft, as well as petrol (петрол in Cyrillic), means crude oil. Nafta is also used in everyday parlance in Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay to refer to gasoline/petrol. Similarly, in Flemish, the word naft(e) is used colloquially for gasoline. In Poland, the word nafta means kerosene, and colloquially crude oil (the technical name for crude oil is ropa naftowa, also colloquially used for diesel fuel as ropa).


== Types ==
Naphtha has been divided into two types by many sources in order to differentiate between common grades more clearly:
One source distinguishes by boiling point as well as carbon atom count per molecule:

 

Chemistry of Hazardous Materials differentiates light and heavy based on the carbon atom count and hydrocarbon structure:

 

Some sources also define petroleum naphtha, which contains both heavy and light naphtha, and typically consists of 15-30% of crude oil by weight.


== Uses ==


=== Heavy crude oil dilution ===
Naphtha is used to dilute heavy crude oil to reduce its viscosity and enable/facilitate transport; undiluted heavy crude cannot normally be transported by pipeline, and may also be difficult to pump onto oil tankers. Other common dilutants include natural-gas condensate and light crude. However, naphtha is a particularly efficient dilutant and can be recycled from diluted heavy crude after transport and processing. The importance of oil dilutants has increased as global production of lighter crude oils has fallen and shifted to exploitation of heavier reserves.


=== Fuel ===
Light naphtha is used as a fuel in some commercial applications. One notable example is wick-based cigarette lighters, such as the Zippo, which draw "lighter fluid"—naphtha—into a wick from a reservoir to be ignited using the flint and wheel.
It is also a fuel for camping stoves and oil lanterns, known as "white gas", where naphtha's low boiling point makes it easy to ignite. Naphtha is sometimes preferred over kerosene because it clogs fuel lines less. The outdoor equipment manufacturer MSR published a list of trade names and translations to help outdoor enthusiasts obtain the correct products in various countries.
Naphtha was also historically used as both a fuel and a working fluid in some small  boats where steam technology was impractical; most were built to circumvent safety laws relating to traditional steam launches.
As an internal combustion engine fuel, petroleum naphtha has seen very little use and suffers from lower efficiency and low octane ratings, typically 40 to 70 RON. It can be used to run unmodified diesel engines, though it has a longer ignition-delay than diesel. Naphtha tends to be noisy in combustion due to the high pressure rise rate. There is a possibility of using naphtha as a low-octane base fuel in an octane-on-demand concept, with the engine drawing a high-octane mix only when needed. Naptha benefits from lesser emissions in refinement: fuel energy losses from "well-to-tank" are 13%; lower than the 22% losses for petroleum.


=== Camera Repair ===
Naphtha is commonly used by camera repair technicians as a solvent. It is ideal for dissolving oxidized and dried lubricants from the mechanism of analog film cameras. It quickly dissolves sticky and oily residue which would slow down the mechanism timing or lock it up entirely. Its volatile nature allows it to quickly evaporate making it ideal for this application. 


=== Plastics ===

Naphtha is a crucial component in the production of plastics.


== Health and safety considerations ==
The safety data sheets (SDSs) from various naphtha vendors indicate various hazards such as a flammable mixture of hydrocarbons: flammability, carcinogenicity, skin and airway irritation, etc.
Humans can be exposed to naphtha in the workplace by inhalation, ingestion, dermal contact, and eye contact. The US Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has set the permissible exposure limit for naphtha in the workplace as 100 ppm (400 mg/m3) over an 8-hour workday. The US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has set a recommended exposure limit (REL) of 100 ppm (400 mg/m3) over an 8-hour workday. At levels of 1000 ppm, which equates to 10 times the lower exposure limit, naphtha is immediately dangerous to life and health.


== See also ==
Coleman fuel
Fels-Naptha
Fractional distillation
Fluid catalytic cracking
Greek fire
Hydrocarbon
Kerosene
Mineral spirits
Naphtha launch
Oil refinery
Petroleum distillation
Petroleum naphtha
Tar


== References ==


== External links ==
 The dictionary definition of naphtha at Wiktionary
 Media related to Naphtha at Wikimedia Commons

Pyrgos Municipal Stadium "Charalambos Vilaetis"  (Greek: Δημοτικό Στάδιο Πύργου "Χαράλαμπος Βιλαέτης") is a multi-use stadium in Pyrgos, Greece.


== Description and use ==
It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of PAS Pyrgos 1968.  The stadium holds 6,750 and was built in 1978.
The stadium's record attendance is 8,871 from a 1991 match. It was renovated in 2000 with plastic red and white seats added.


== References ==

The 2011–12 Championnat de France amateur 2 season was the 14th since its establishment. Chambéry were the defending champions. The teams and groups were announced on 18 July 2011 and the fixtures were determined on 28 July. The season began on 20 August 2011 and ended on 2 June 2012. The winter break was in effect from 23 December to 6 January.


== Teams ==
There were 34 promoted teams from the Division d'Honneur, replacing the 32 teams that were relegated from the Championnat de France amateur 2 following the 2010–11 season. A total of 72 teams competed in the league with 32 clubs suffering relegation to the sixth division, the Division d'Honneur. All non-reserve clubs that secured league status for the season were subject to approval by the DNCG before becoming eligible to participate in the competition.


=== Promotion and relegation ===
Teams relegated to Championnat de France amateur 2

Aurillac
Genêts Anglet
Louhans-Cuiseaux
Noisy-le-Sec
Saint-Pryvé Saint-Hilaire
Rennes B
Teams promoted to Championnat de France amateur 2

Ajaccio B
Amiens B
Aubagne
Belfort Sud
Boulogne B
Chaumont
Échirolles
Eu
Evian B
Flers
Fleury-Mérogis
Fresnoy-le-Grand
Iris Club
La Suze
Le Poiré-sur-Vie B
Les Herbiers B
Limoges
Mâcon
Marmande
Marseille B
Muret
Narbonne
Neuves-Maisons
Saint-Colomban Locminé
Saint-Georges-les-Ancizes
Saint-Jean-le-Blanc
Sézanne
Steinseltz
Thaon
Thouars
Trouville-Deauville
Vannes B


=== DNCG rulings ===
On 26 May 2011, following a preliminary review of each club's administrative and financial accounts in the Championnat National, the DNCG ruled that Grenoble would be relegated to the Championnat de France amateur (CFA) after the organization determined that the club was enduring financial difficulties. The organization also excluded relegated Championnat de France amateur club Toulon from participating in the CFA 2 and relegated both Agde and Chambéry to the fifth division. Chambéry had finished as the champions of the 2010–11 edition of the CFA 2. On 4 June, the DNCG announced that, for the second consecutive season, Calais would not be allowed to ascend to the CFA, which meant the club would be returning to the fifth division. All clubs had the option to appeal the rulings.
On 22 June, L'Entente SSG was relegated to the fifth division after the club declared bankruptcy. On 4 July, Grenoble confirmed on its website that the Appeals Board of the DNCG had informed club officials that it will be relegated to the fourth division.  Grenoble, subsequently, entered liquidation on 7 July, which made the club unable to participate in the CFA. The club was eventually inserted into the CFA 2. On the same day as the Grenoble ruling, the DNCG also rejected the appeals of Toulon and Calais. Division d'Honneur club Sézanne took up Toulon's position in the CFA 2. On 24 August, the Executive Committee of the French Football Federation announced that RC Strasbourg would be relegated to the CFA 2 after a Strasbourg tribunal ordered the club to enter liquidation. Strasbourg will, subsequently, replaced its reserve team in the division as they cannot appear in the same division as its parent club.


== League tables ==


=== Group A ===


=== Group B ===


=== Group C ===


=== Group D ===


=== Group E ===


=== Group F ===


=== Group G ===


=== Group H ===


== References ==


== External links ==
CFA 2 Official Page
CFA 2 Standings and Statistics Archived 2011-09-19 at the Wayback Machine

Scott F. McAfee is an American judge serving on the Fulton County Superior Court in Georgia since 2023. Judge McAfee was the Georgia inspector general from 2021 to 2023. Prior to his current appointment, Judge McAfee served as a senior assistant district attorney in Fulton County and an assistant United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia.
In August 2023, McAfee garnered national attention when he was assigned to preside over the Fulton County district attorney's criminal racketeering case against Donald Trump.


== Early life and education ==
McAfee was born in 1988 or 1989. He was raised in Kennesaw, Georgia. He is an Eagle Scout and graduate of North Cobb High School. McAfee received a cello scholarship to play in the Emory University symphony orchestra. In 2010, he completed a bachelor's degree in political science and music. 
In 2012, McAfee was a judicial intern for Georgia Supreme Court justice Keith R. Blackwell. He also interned for justice David Nahmias. In 2013, he graduated from the University of Georgia School of Law, cum laude. While in law school, he was the vice president of the school's Federalist Society chapter, treasurer of Law Republicans and inducted into The Order of Barristers.


== Career ==
McAfee was an assistant district attorney in the Barrow County, Piedmont Judicial Circuit. He joined the office of the district attorney in Fulton County in April 2015, initially working on the early stages of criminal cases. He later was promoted to working as a prosecutor in the complex trial division, which was then headed by prosecutor Fani Willis, who was later elected as Fulton County district attorney. McAfee was eventually promoted to senior assistant district attorney in the major case division, where he prosecuted felony cases including armed robbery and murder.
In 2019, McAfee was appointed as an assistant United States Attorney for the United States District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. He worked in the criminal division where he investigated and prosecuted drug trafficking organizations, fraud, and illegal firearms possession. On April 1, 2021, Georgia governor Brian Kemp appointed McAfee as the state inspector general, tasked with overseeing fraud and corruption within Georgia's executive branch.


=== State judge in Fulton County ===

In December 2022, Kemp appointed McAfee to the Fulton County Superior Court following Christopher S. Brasher's retirement. He was sworn in on February 1, 2023.
In May, 2024, McAfee won the election to a full four-year term as a state judge.


=== The State of Georgia v. Donald J. Trump, et al ===
In August, 2023, McAffee was assigned to preside over the racketeering case, The State of Georgia v. Donald J. Trump, et al, Case # 23SC188947, in which former President Donald Trump and 18 co-defendants are charged with conspiring to overturn the 2020 Georgia presidential election results. Fani Willis was the state prosecutor of that case.
Appellate Case # A24I016
On December 16, 2024, The Georgia Court of Appeals canceled the oral arguments without explanation; The ruling was based solely on legal filings:
"After carefully considering the trial court’s findings in its order, we conclude that it erred by failing to disqualify DA Willis and her office”, (referring to an earlier ruling that allowed Willis to remain on the case)…
McAfee’s decision did not prevent the  “appearance of impropriety…
The remedy crafted by the trial court to prevent an ongoing appearance of impropriety did nothing to address the appearance of impropriety that existed at times when DA Willis was exercising her broad pretrial discretion about who to prosecute and what charges to bring…
While we recognize that an appearance of impropriety generally is not enough to support disqualification, this is the rare case in which disqualification is mandated and no other remedy will suffice to restore public confidence in the integrity of these proceedings."
On September 16, 2025, the Georgia Supreme Court denied certiorari, and the Fulton County DA's office's disqualification from the case was finalized. The Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of Georgia is now responsible for the case until a new prosecutor is found.
Willis had been under scrutiny over her relationship with a special prosecutor on the case, Nathan Wade.
Recovery of legal fees
A 2025 Georgia law permits defendants in dismissed cases, in which the prosecutor has been disqualified for misconduct, to seek relief as to reimbursement of attorney fees with taxpayer funds.
As of early 2025, President Trump had paid about $2.7 million to his lead attorneys; the Georgia Republican Party had paid about $2 million for other defendants, according to the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.


== Personal life ==
As of 2021, McAfee is a volunteer scuba diver at the Georgia Aquarium and captains an Atlanta Lawn Tennis Association tennis team. He is married and has two children.


== References ==


== External links ==
Appearances on C-SPAN

Patryk Sikora (born 20 November 1999) is a Polish professional footballer who plays as a defensive midfielder for I liga club Ruch Chorzów, where he went through the youth teams and spent his whole senior career so far.


== Career ==
Sikora is a youth product of Ruch Chorzów. He made his first-team debut on 5 May 2018, in a 0–2 loss to Puszcza Niepołomice
He appeared in six matches in the Polish second-tier in the 2017–18 season, failing to score or provide an assist. His team finished last in the table and was relegated to the third tier.
He played in nine matches in the following season, again without scoring or assisting, as Ruch finished last and was demoted to the fourth division.
In the 2019–20 season, he appeared in seven matches, scoring one goal and providing one assist. The season was interrupted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The following season, he played in 17 matches in the III liga, scoring three goals. His team finished first and returned to the division above. In February 2021, he tore his anterior cruciate ligament, sidelining him for an extended period.
After recovering from injury, he played in 17 matches in the 2021–22 II liga season without scoring or assisting, and his team finished third and, after defeating Radunia Stężyca in the semi-final and Motor Lublin in the final of the promotion playoffs, was promoted to the I liga.
In the 2022–23 season, he played in 28 matches in the I liga, scoring three goals and providing two assists. Ruch finished second and was promoted to the Ekstraklasa after a six-year absence.
He made his Ekstraklasa debut on 23 July 2023, in a 1–2 loss to Zagłębie Lubin. In total, he played in 19 matches, scoring his first Ekstraklasa goal in a 3–0 win over Piast Gliwice. On 20 April 2024, during a home match against Widzew Łódź, he tore his anterior cruciate ligament again, ruling him out for the rest of the season. His team finished 17th and was relegated back to the I liga.


== Career statistics ==
As of match played 20 April 2024


== Honours ==
Ruch Chorzów

III liga, group III: 2020–21
Polish Cup (Katowice regionals): 2020–21


== References ==


== External links ==
Patryk Sikora at Soccerway
Patryk Sikora at 90minut.pl (in Polish)

Avith ("ruin") was an Edomite city. It was the capital of the Edomite king Hadad ben Bedad. According to the Bible, Hadad ben Bedad was one of the kings of Edom before there were kings in Israel, that is, before the coronation of Saul ("widely" dated around 1025 BCE). Avith is mentioned only twice in the Hebrew Bible: in a list of Edomite kings in Genesis (Genesis 36:35), and in a copy of the same list found in Chronicles (1 Chronicles 1:46). Its location is unknown but presumably it was in what is now southern Israel or Jordan.


== See also ==
List of rulers of Edom


== References ==

The women's heptathlon at the 2024 Summer Olympics was held in Paris, France, on 8 and 9 August 2024. This was the 11th time that the event was contested at the Summer Olympics. Nafissatou Thiam became the first women ever to win the gold medal in heptathlon three Olympics in a row.


== Summary ==
This was the 11th appearance of the heptathlon event, having appeared in every Olympic athletics programme since 1984. The event featured the entire podium from the previous edition, as well as the podium from the two most recent world championships. Reigning Olympic champion Nafissatou Thiam was aiming to become the first woman to successfully win three Olympic heptathlon titles. Reining world champion Katarina Johnson-Thompson was looking to win her first Olympic medal, after finishing off the podium in the past three editions. Other medal contenders were double world indoor champion Noor Vidts, who finished fourth in the previous edition, returning Olympic silver medalist Anouk Vetter and multiple world-medalists Anna Hall.


=== Day one ===
In the first event, the 100 m hurdles, Annik Kälin of Switzerland recorded the fastest time. Her time of 12.87 s was a personal best. Additionally, Kälin was the only athlete to record a time under 13 seconds. The top 3 was rounded out by American Taliyah Brooks and Noor Vidts, the latter also running a personal best. Johnson-Thompson, finishing in eight, recorded a season's best.
Drama came in the second event, the high jump, for American Chari Hawkins, who had three failed attempts at her opening height of 1.71 m. This meant that she had scored 0 points in the event and that winning a medal became virtually impossible for her. Nevertheless, she decided to continue her heptathlon after this event. For the longest time, it was a three-way battle between Thiam, Johnson-Thompson and Hall. Thiam was the first of the three to go clear at 1.92 m. Johnson-Thompson and Hall both recorded two failures on their first two attempts. On her third attempt, Johnson-Thompson cleared the bar, whereas Hall did not. This meant that Johnson-Thompson would continue with Thiam on the next height, 1.95 m. Ultimately, both women recorded three failures at this height, meaning both women were awarded the same amount of points. Lower in the standings, Kälin and Vetter both recorded season's bests.
The heptathlon continued in the shot put. Thiam extended her winning streak, recording a season's best of 15.54 m, almost half a meter clear of second place finisher Vetter. Vetter recorded a distance of 15.07, which was the only other distance to cross the 15 m mark. Vidts finished in third, with a distance of 14.57 m. Emma Oosterwegel, in fourth, and Johnson-Thompson, in fifth, both recorded personal bests.
The final event of the first day was the 200 metres. The event was won by Johnson-Thompson, who recorded a time of 23.44 s. Italian Sveva Gerevini and Dutchwoman Sofie Dokter rounded out the top 3. Thiam, who finished in 13th, recorded a seasons-best.
After the first day, Johnson-Thompson had the lead with 4055 points, 48 points ahead of second-placer Thiam. Hall rounded out the top 3, with a total of 3956 points.


=== Day two ===
The second day started with the long jump. The event was won by Martha Araújo, who took the win with a jump of 6.61 m in her final attempt. Kälin finished in second, just two centimetres behind the Colombian. Thiam, Vidts and Johnson-Thompson all followed, with just 1 centimetre separating the three of them. Vetter attained a small injury during the event, deciding to withdraw from the heptathlon after this event.
The penultimate event was the javelin throw. In the absence of Vetter, Thiam won the javelin throw, recording a season's best. Vetter's teammate Oosterwegel and Irish athlete Kate O'Connor rounded out the top 3. A bit lower down in the standings, Hall and Vidts both recorded personal bests.
The final event was the 800 metres. Prior to the event, Thiam had a 121-point lead over Johnson-Thompson. Despite this, the fight for the gold was going to be close, as Johnson-Thompson was a significantly better 800 meter-runner than Thiam. Vidts, Kälin and Hall were in 3rd, 4th and 5th place respectively.
At the gun, Hall immediately went to the front, creating a 5-meter gap with the rest of the field. Behind her, a chasing group formed of Johnson-Thompson, Vidts and Thiam respectively. At the bell, Hall recorded the fastest split time of 58.8 s. Johnson-Thompson and Vidts were behind her, recording a time of just over 1 minute. Thiam had fallen further to the back, meanwhile Hungarian Xénia Krizsán had joined Johnson-Thompson and Vidts in the chasing group. At the finish line, Hall claimed victory in the event. Johnson-Thompson finished right behind her in second, after distancing herself from the rest of the chasing group in the home stretch. After that, Vidts and Krizsán crossed the finish line. Thiam ended up finishing a few seconds later, in 9th place. Due to the fast-paced races, 9 out of the 10 first finishers recorded personal bests, with event winner Hall being the sole exception.
After the scores of the final event were calculated and added up, Thiam emerged victorious, with a total of 6880 points. Johnson-Thompson finished in second, just 32 points behind Thiam. With this victory, Thiam became the most successful athlete in Olympic heptathlon history, as she is now the only athlete with 3 gold medals in the event. Johnson-Thompson's silver medal meant she won her first Olympic medal at her fourth Olympics. Vidts claimed the bronze medal in a personal best of 6707 points, also winning her first Olympic medal. Rounding out the top 5 were Kälin and Hall. 


== Records ==
Prior to the competition, the existing world, Olympic, and area records were as follows:


== Qualification ==

For the women's heptathlon event, the qualification period is between 1 July 2023 and 30 June 2024.  


== Schedule ==
All times are Central European Summer Time (UTC+2)
The women's heptathlon took place over two consecutive days, with 4 events on the first day and 3 events on the second day.


== Results ==


=== 100 metres hurdles ===
Wind:
Heat 1: +0.1 m/s, Heat 2: 0.0 m/s, Heat 3: -0.1 m/s
German athlete Sophie Weißenberg was injured during warmup and had to withdraw from competition.


=== High jump ===

Key


=== Shot put ===


=== 200 metres ===
Wind:
Heat 1: +0.2, Heat 2: +0.4, Heat 3: -0.5


=== Long jump ===


=== Javelin throw ===


=== 800 metres ===


== Overall results ==
Key
  The highest mark recorded in each event is highlighted in yellow.

* – Anouk Vetter retired after long jump and did not participate in the remaining events.
** – Sophie Weißenberg was injured in the warmups before the 100 metres hurdles and did not participate in any events.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official reports women's heptathlon

Borborino (Russian: Борборино) is a rural locality (a village) in Markovskoye Rural Settlement, Vologodsky District, Vologda Oblast, Russia. The population was 1 as of 2002.


== Geography ==
Borborino is located 24 km southeast of Vologda (the district's administrative centre) by road. Koskovo is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

The Purisima Formation is a geologic formation in California that preserves fossils dating from the Late Miocene to Late Pliocene. It stretches from Point Reyes to the Santa Cruz Mountains.


== See also ==

List of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in California
Paleontology in California


== References ==


== External links ==
Various Contributors to the Paleobiology Database. "Fossilworks: Gateway to the Paleobiology Database". Archived from the original on 25 March 2022. Retrieved 17 December 2021.

A craton is an ancient part of the Earth's continental crust which has been more or less stable since Precambrian times. Cratons whose ancient rocks are widely exposed at the surface, often with relatively subdued relief, are known as shields. If the ancient rocks are largely overlain by a cover of younger rocks then the 'hidden' craton may be referred to as a platform.


== List of shields ==
Western Ethiopian Shield
Amazonian Shield of central South America
Guiana Shield
Guaporé or Central Brazilian Shield
The Angaran Shield of West Siberia
Arabian-Nubian Shield
(Western) Australian Shield
Baltic Shield of Fennoscandia
Canadian Shield a.k.a. Laurentian Shield
The China-Korean Shield containing the North China Craton
The East Antarctic Shield containing the East Antarctic Craton
Indian Shield
Man Shield


== List of named cratons ==

Listed by modern continent and Gondwana, include:


=== West Gondwana ===


==== South America ====
Amazonian Craton
Guiana Shield
Amazonian Shield
São Francisco Craton (Congo Craton)
Rio Apa Craton
Río de la Plata Craton
Arequipa–Antofalla Craton
São Luís cratonic fragment
Luís Alves cratonic fragment


==== Africa ====
West African Craton
East Saharan Meta-craton
Congo Craton, central southern Africa
Bangweulu Block, Zambia
Tanzanian Craton
Kalahari Craton
Kaapvaal craton, South Africa (3.6–2.5 Ga)
Zimbabwe Craton (3.5 Ga)
Sebakwe Craton


=== Antarctic-East African Orogen ===
Arabian Plate
Part of the Arabian–Nubian Shield
Western Ethiopian Shield
Eastern Ethiopian Shield (part of the Somali Plate)
Part of Madagascar


=== East Gondwana ===


==== Indian Subcontinent ====
Indian Craton
Aravalli Craton, India
Bundelkand Craton, India
Dharwar Craton, India (3.4–2.6 Ga)
Singhbhum Craton, India
Bastar Craton, India


==== Antarctica ====
East Antarctic Craton


==== Australia ====
Altjawarra Craton
Central Craton
Curnamona Craton, South Australia
Gawler craton, central South Australia
Pilbara Craton, Western Australia
Yilgarn craton, Western Australia (4.4 Ga)


=== North America ===
 
Canadian Shield (or Laurentian Shield)
Churchill Craton
Hearne Craton
Nain Craton (part of North Atlantic Craton)
North American Craton (Laurentia)
Rae Craton
Sask Craton
Sclavia Craton
Slave Craton, Northwest Territories, Canada (4.03–3.5 Ga)
Superior Craton, Canada and northern United States (3.7–2.7 Ga)
Wyoming Craton


=== Eurasia ===


==== Eastern Eurasia ====
East China Craton
North China Craton (sometimes called Sino-Korean Craton), (2.5 Ga)
South China Craton (also known as Yangtze Craton)
Siberian Craton, sometimes called Angara Craton.
Aldan Shield
Anabar Shield
Tarim Craton, China


==== Northern and Eastern Europe ====
East European Craton, the core of Baltica
Volgo-Uralian Craton, Russia (3.0–2.7 Ga)
Baltic Shield, part of the East European Craton; Fennoscandian Shield, the exposed Northwestern part of the Baltic Shield in Norway, Sweden and Finland (3.1 Ga)
Karelian Craton, part of the Fennoscandian Shield in Southeast Finland and Karelia Russia, (3.4 Ga)
Kola Craton, part of the Fennoscandian Shield, Kola Peninsula, Northwest Russia
Belomorian Craton, part of the Fennoscandian Shield, between the Karelian and Kola cratons
Sarmatian Craton (3.7–2.8 Ga)
Ukrainian Shield
Midlands Microcraton of England and Wales
North Atlantic Craton


== See also ==
List of paleocontinents


== References ==
Dov Avigad and Zohar Gvirtzman (2009). "Late Neoproterozoic rise and fall of the northern Arabian–Nubian shield: The role of lithospheric mantle delamination and subsequent thermal subsidence" (PDF). Tectonophysics. 477 (3–4): 217–228. Bibcode:2009Tectp.477..217A. doi:10.1016/j.tecto.2009.04.018. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2011-04-09.

Peter Goelet Gerry (September 18, 1879 – October 31, 1957) was an American lawyer and politician who served in the United States House of Representatives and later, as a U.S. senator from Rhode Island. He is the only U.S. senator in American history to lose re-election and later reclaim his Senate seat from the person who had defeated him.


== Early life ==

Gerry was born on September 18, 1879, in Manhattan, New York City, to Elbridge Thomas Gerry and Louisa Matilda Livingston Gerry. He was a great-grandson of Elbridge Gerry, the fifth Vice President of the United States (who had given his name to the term gerrymandering). His father was worth an estimated $25,000,000 (equivalent to $834,051,724 today) in 1912. Through his paternal grandmother, Hannah Green Goelet, he was a great-great-grandson of real estate investor Peter Goelet. His father, Elbridge T. Gerry, was first cousins with Robert Goelet and Ogden Goelet.
In the summer of 1899, Gerry and his brother Robert were tutored by William Lyon Mackenzie King, who later became the Prime Minister of Canada. In 1901, Gerry graduated from Harvard University. He studied law and was admitted to the Rhode Island bar in 1906.


== Career ==
Gerry inherited large real estate holdings from his mother, who died in 1920, which Gerry and his elder brother agreed to sell in 1922. In a 1918 trust agreement, the brothers and their sisters, Angelica Livingston Gerry and Mabel Gerry, could all exchange ownership in Gerry real estate for stock in the Gerry Estates, Inc.


=== Political career ===

Gerry was elected to the United States House of Representatives for Rhode Island's 2nd District as a Democrat from 1913 to 1915.  He was an unsuccessful candidate for re-election in 1914, but he was elected to the United States Senate in 1916 and served from 1917 to 1929. He was the first United States senator from Rhode Island elected by popular vote rather than by the state legislature, after the adoption of the Seventeenth Amendment.  He was also the first Democratic United States senator from Rhode Island since 1859.
From 1919 to 1929, Gerry was the Democratic Whip. He has been described as a "Wilsonian Moralist". In 1928 he lost re-election to Republican Felix Hebert, but in a 1934 rematch Gerry defeated Hebert and returned to the Senate, the first time that someone had lost a Senate seat and then regained it from the person who had defeated him. Re-elected in 1940, Gerry did not seek re-election in 1946.
Despite the great divide between Democrats and Republicans during his first stint in the Senate, Gerry appeared open to a cordial relationship with the Majority Whip, Senator Charles Curtis, who later became Senate Majority Leader and Vice President.


== Personal life ==


=== First marriage ===
In 1910, Gerry married Mathilde Scott Townsend (1885–1949), the daughter of Richard H. Townsend (1850–1902), the President of the Erie and Pittsburgh Railroad, and the granddaughter of William Lawrence Scott (1828–1891), a Pennsylvania railroad and coal magnate who was a member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Pennsylvania. They did not have children and divorced in 1925.  Later that same year, Mathilde married Sumner Welles (1892–1961), who was seven years her junior, and who had divorced his wife, Esther Slater, in 1923.  At the time, rumors circulated around Washington that Sumner and Mathilde were having an affair that wrecked both their marriages.


=== Second marriage ===
On October 22, 1925, Gerry married Edith Stuyvesant Dresser (1873–1958), the widow of George Washington Vanderbilt II (1862–1914). Edith, a daughter of Maj. George Warren Dresser, was the mother of Cornelia Stuyvesant Vanderbilt (1900–1976), who married John Francis Amherst Cecil, son of Lord William Cecil and Mary Rothes Margaret Tyssen-Amherst, 2nd Baroness Amherst of Hackney.


=== Death ===
Gerry died on October 31, 1957, in Providence, Rhode Island. His elder brother, Robert Livingston Gerry, died several hours later in Delhi, New York. He was buried at St James Cemetery, Hyde Park, New York. His widow died on December 21, 1958.


== See also ==
List of Harvard University politicians


== References ==


== Further reading ==
United States Congress. "Peter G. Gerry (id: G000141)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress.


== External links ==
 Media related to Peter G. Gerry at Wikimedia Commons
Schlup, Leonard, "Wilsonian Moralist: Senator Peter G. Gerry and the Crusade for the League of Nations", Rhode Island History 58 (February 2000)
The Diary of William Lyon Mackenzie King
References to Peter Gerry and Robert Gerry in Mackenzie King diary Archived 2006-11-28 at the Wayback Machine

On September 1–2, 2021, Hurricane Ida affected much of the Northeastern United States as an extratropical cyclone, causing catastrophic river and flash flooding. Widespread flooding affected many areas, shutting down numerous roads, halting public transit, and cancelling hundreds of flights. Several rivers overflowed their banks, flooding farmlands, towns, and homes. Hundreds of cars were abandoned on roadways after being stranded in floodwaters and dozens of high-water rescues were performed. Several flash flood emergencies were issued due to the flooding.

The storm also produced a tornado outbreak that spawned seven tornadoes across Pennsylvania and New Jersey along with an additional weak tornado in Massachusetts. In Pennsylvania, an EF2 tornado caused severe damage and a fatality in Upper Dublin Township. One intense EF3 tornado passed near Mullica Hill, New Jersey damaging or destroying several homes. The same storm later produced EF1 tornado that tracked from Edgewater Park, New Jersey to Bristol, Pennsylvania and prompted a rare tornado emergency for both Bristol and Croydon, Pennsylvania, as well as Burlington, New Jersey. This was the first tornado emergency ever issued for a tropical cyclone as well as the first ever issued for the Northeastern United States.
At least 55 people died in the states of New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Connecticut. CoreLogic estimated that Ida caused an estimated $16 to 24 billion in flooding damage in the Northeastern United States. The National Hurricane Center (NHC) estimated that Ida caused between $18 billion to $22.5 billion in damage in the Northeastern United States, with a median estimate of at least $20 billion in damages.


== Background ==

Ida was the third tropical system in a time period of several weeks to affect the Northeastern United States, after Tropical Storm Fred and Hurricane Henri in August. These storms dropped heavy rainfall, saturating the soil. New York City recorded 9.06 in (230 mm) from August 16 to 30, which became the second largest amount of rain New York City had in the second half of August on record. Water levels in rivers were also higher than average, leaving much of the region susceptible to flooding.


== Preparations ==

The Weather Prediction Center issued a High Risk of flash flooding for parts of West Virginia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, and Connecticut. On August 31, the New York Mets game against the Miami Marlins scheduled for September 1 at Citi Field was postponed due to the approaching storm.


== Impact ==


=== Maryland and Delaware ===
In Maryland, A 19-year-old man was confirmed dead after flooding at an apartment complex in Rockville. In Frederick County, 10 students and their bus driver had to be rescued when their school bus was caught in flooding. An EF2 tornado caused considerable damage to homes, businesses, schools, and other structures as well as trees, signs, and power lines in Annapolis. Two other EF0 tornadoes also touched down in the state. In Wilmington, Delaware, over 200 people were rescued from flooding caused by the storm along the Brandywine Creek. The creek also reached a crest of 23.14 ft (7.05 m), a new record.


=== Pennsylvania ===

At least five people were killed in Pennsylvania. In Bucks County, a man drowned in his vehicle in the Unami Creek. The flooding was particularly severe on portions of Interstate 676, leading the highway to take several days to reopen, with a cost of $715,000 to repair. Parts of Pennsylvania Route 611 were closed for six months due to flooding. Four tornadoes touched down in the states while another one moved into the state out of New Jersey. A low-end EF2 tornado caused severe damage when it impacted the east side Oxford in Chester County. Another EF2 tornado caused severe damage in Fort Washington, Upper Dublin Township, and Horsham Township in Montgomery County, knocking down trees and power lines and tearing the roof off of the Upper Dublin Police Department. A woman was killed when a tree fell onto her house due to the tornado. Three EF1 tornadoes were confirmed in Bucks County, including one EF1 tornado that crossed the state line after striking Edgewater Park, New Jersey and struck Buckingham Township. In Pittsburgh, a bus with over 40 people had to be rescued. This tornado came from the same storm that produced the Mullica Hill, New Jersey EF3 tornado and this prompted the issuance of a tornado emergency for Burlington, New Jersey and Croydon, and Bristol, Pennsylvania, the first of its kind in the Northeast, as well as the first such alert associated with a tropical cyclone. Bucks County was also under a flash flood emergency at the time, marking one of the few times that these emergency alerts were issued for the same area. Damage in Pennsylvania amounted to anywhere between $2.5 billion and $3.5 billion.


=== New Jersey ===

All of the New Jersey Transit, except for the Atlantic City Line was shut down due to the storm. Newark International Airport was shut down, cancelling more than 400 flights, and shutting down the airport parking lot. Ida significantly contributed to Newark's wettest September on record. In Millburn, Essex County, the Rahway River overflowed its banks, flooding the downtown area. More than 100 rescues were conducted. People were evacuated to the Millburn Library. In nearby Livingston, the Canoe Brook overflowed its banks, and flooding damaged several police, fire department, and public works vehicles. One fire department SUV was swept away while rescuing a person in a trapped car. Around 500 rescues occurred in Manville, Somerset County, and 100 houses were estimated to be uninhabitable. Manville Office of Emergency Management Director John Bentz stated that the Raritan River crested on the morning of September 3 at 27.6 ft (8.4 m), beating Hurricane Floyd of 1999. In nearby Bound Brook, a NJ Transit train was stuck in floodwaters. Nearby in Newark, the city realized their wettest day on record with 8.41 in (214 mm) of rain pouring down. Three tornadoes touched down in the state, which were all produced by the same supercell. An EF3 tornado with winds of 150 mph (240 km/h) damaged or destroyed many homes and tossed cars in Mullica Hill, New Jersey. One unanchored frame home was completely leveled and two people were injured by the tornado. The same storm later produced an EF1 tornado that prompted the tornado emergency mentioned above. The storm crossed back later crossed back into New Jersey, and produced its final tornado, which caused EF0 tree damage in Princeton. In Hopewell, New Jersey, Interstate 295 was shut down due to flooding. A total of 30 people were killed in New Jersey, making Ida the second deadliest tropical cyclone in the history of the state, behind Hurricane Sandy. Damage in New Jersey amounted to anywhere between $8 billion and $10 billion.


=== New York State ===

At least three people were killed in Westchester County. More than 200 cars were abandoned on roads. A man was killed near the Saw Mill River Parkway after his car was submerged. A total of 18 people died in New York State. The New York State Thruway between exits 12 and 14 was temporarily shut down. Initial estimates, according to New York Governor Kathy Hochul, said flooding caused more than $50 million in damage in New York State. However, more updated numbers reveal damage in New York amounted to between $7.5 billion and $9 billion.


==== New York City and Long Island ====
The National Weather Service issued their first ever flash flood emergency for New York City during the storm. In the New York Subway System, 17 trains were trapped and service was halted until the morning of September 2. Everyone trapped was evacuated, with no casualties. Damage to the subway system was $75 million. At the US Open tennis site in Flushing in New York City, 18 people were rescued. A total of 13 people were killed in New York City, with 11 of them occurring when basements of apartments flooded. In one of the incidents, a toddler was killed. A man's body was recovered from the Gowanus Canal late on September 2. New York City saw a record amount of rainfall in one hour, from 8:51-9:51pm on September 1, at 3.15 in (80 mm), with records for 2-hour and 3-hour rainfall as well. LaGuardia Airport recorded their wettest day on record, with 6.80 in (173 mm) of rain, while Central Park recorded their 5th wettest day with 7.13 in (181 mm) of rain. The maximum amount of rainfall in Staten Island of 8.92 inches (227 mm) made it the 9th wettest tropical cyclone in New York. The flooding was so bad that Bill de Blasio had to ban all non-essential travel on roads until 5am on September 2. The West Shore Expressway was shut down due to flooding, and much of the Staten Island Railway was shut down as well.
By the morning of September 2, more than 13,200 homes had lost power on Long Island and the Long Island Railroad had suspended service systemwide. Caumsett State Historic Park Preserve suffered heavy damage and was forced to close after the storm.


=== New England ===
During the storm, the first ever flash flood emergency for the state of Connecticut was issued. A Connecticut State Trooper sergeant was hospitalized after he and his police vehicle were swept away by floodwaters from the Pomperaug River in Litchfield County, early on September 2. He died later that day. Parts of Connecticut received over 7 in (180 mm) of rain, with a peak total of 8.72 in (221 mm) of rain in Seymour. The state of Connecticut saw 20,000 power outages. Multiple roads closed due to flooding. An EF0 tornado was spawned in Dennis, Massachusetts, causing minor damage to two homes and knocking down three large oak trees. In New Hampshire, heavy rainfall fell, up to 4.24 in (108 mm) in Hudson. However, there were no reports of flash flooding in the state.


== Aftermath ==
States of emergency were declared in New York, including in New York City, New Jersey, and Connecticut. President of the United States Joe Biden stated that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) was responding to the catastrophe. On September 2, Amtrak was forced to suspend the entire Northeast Corridor for a day due to storm damage.


=== New Jersey ===
Several New Jersey public school districts delayed or cancelled classes because of flooding or severe weather damage. Newark Liberty International Airport suffered flooding in the terminals, and all departures were grounded. Operations continued the following morning with flight delays and cancellations. On September 2, it was announced that, because of the major flooding around SHI Stadium, the Rutgers–Temple home opener game would be postponed. TD Bank Ballpark, which was submerged underwater from Ida, re-opened on September 11, after 3 games against the Hartford Yard Goats were moved to Dunkin' Park. Governor of New Jersey Phil Murphy toured Mullica Hill. He said that the state needed improved infrastructure. Murphy said he would be requesting a major disaster declaration from the federal government, and promised to discuss storm-response measures with President Biden late on September 2. On September 5th President Biden approved the major disaster declaration, and the year after the declaration FEMA, reports that New Jersey has received more than 873 million in federal funds which consist of housing assistance and other needs assistance. 
Murphy called the flooding "historic by any measure." Murphy also attributed the storm to climate change, saying that "there's no denying it". The governor toured downtown Millburn. He stated that businesses and non-profits with up to 50 employees that were damaged by Hurricane Ida would be qualified for up to $5,000 in repercussions. Despite this, however, he was extensively criticized for his late declaration of a state of emergency, which many Republicans said lead to additional deaths leading up to the 2021 New Jersey gubernatorial election.


=== New York ===
Governor of New York Kathy Hochul said that the state needed "massive cleanup". The New York City Department of Buildings investigated the conditions of the basements where people had drowned during Ida. Five of the six basements were found to be illegally-converted apartments. Mayor of New York Bill de Blasio presented the Climate Driven Rain Response Plan, which is expected to create a new and improved warning system. De Blasio also announced the formation of the 30-day Extreme Weather Response Task Force to look into how the city could be more ready to face such weather. The mayor also laid out the potential for travel restrictions, door-to-door warnings, phone alerts, and faster evacuations in the future. On September 6, President Biden approved Hochul's request for a major disaster declaration. On the same day, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell, De Blasio, Senator Chuck Schumer, and Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez visited Queens, one of the hardest-hit areas in New York City. AOC attributed the impacts to climate change, and also said that "[we] needed more advance notice from the [National Weather Service]." She also stated that most of the flooding was caused by problems with the sewer system.
Governor Kathy Hochul and Mayor Bill de Blasio allocated $27 million to assist undocumented residents who are not eligible for FEMA relief funds.
New York City has made several long term projects to improve flood control in the aftermath of Ida, including 2300 curbside gardens. Additionally, New York City got funding from the Inflation Reduction Act to be able to prevent future floods like Ida.


== References ==

The abbreviation MTE or M.T.E. may refer to:

Materiel de Traction Electrique joint subsidiary of Creusot-Loire and Jeumont-Schneider
MAC-then-Encrypt (MtE), one of approaches to Authenticated encryption
Mathematical Table Errata, an increasingly numbered periodical column about errors in mathematical tables in the journal Mathematics of Computation
MCA Television Entertainment, a former division of Universal Television
Arm Memory Tagging Extension, a hardware implementation of tagged memory
The Metabolic Theory of Ecology, which argues that ecological phenomena result from metabolic constraints
The Brazilian Ministry of Labor and Employment
Multicultural Toronto English, a sociolect dialect spoken by youth culture living in Southern Ontario, particularly the Greater Toronto Area.
Myanma Timber Enterprise, a state-owned timber company

Scorpius (♏) is a constellation of the zodiac, named after the ancient Greek word for scorpion.
Scorpius may also refer to:


== Arts and entertainment ==
Scorpius (novel), a James Bond novel by John Gardner
"Scorpius" (Doctor Who audio), an audio drama episode of the Cyberman audio series based on Doctor Who
Scorpius (Farscape), a fictional alien in the TV series Farscape
Scorpius, a fictional villain in the Power Rangers Lost Galaxy TV series
Scorpius, a fictional robot in the pinball video game Sonic Spinball
"Scorpius", a song by band Midnight Juggernauts
Scorpius Malfoy, a fictional character from J.K. Rowling’s “Harry Potter” series


== Other uses ==
Euscorpius, a genus of scorpions also known as Scorpius
Scorpius (electronic warfare system), a defensive electronic warfare system.


== See also ==
Scorpio (astrology) (♏)

Arthur Heber Browne (1864 – 10 June 1951) was the inaugural Bishop of Bermuda.
Born in 1864 and educated at St Edmund Hall, Oxford, he was ordained in 1887. After a curacy at Berkeley, Gloucestershire he was appointed the Vicar of Northleach in 1890. He then served the Anglican Church in Canada before a lengthy spell as Missioner within the Diocese of Exeter. His final post (before his appointment to the episcopate) was at the united parish of St Michael and All Angels with All Saints, Paddington. A colourful character, he died on 10 June 1951.


== References ==

Pendimethalin is a selective herbicide of the dinitroaniline class used preëmergently and postemergently to control annual grasses and certain broadleaf weeds. It inhibits cell division and cell elongation. Pendimethalin is approved in Europe, North America, South America, Africa, Asia and Oceania for different crops including cereals (wheat, barley, rye, triticale), corn, soybeans, rice, potato, legumes, fruits, vegetables, and nuts, plus lawns and ornamental plants.
It is also registered in Australia,
Uganda
and India.


== Use ==
Pendimethalin protects crops like wheat, corn, soybeans, potatoes, cabbage, peas, carrots, and asparagus. It controls annual grasses and certain broadleaf weeds which interfere with growth, yield and quality of crops by competing for nutrients, water and light.
Where weed infestation is particularly bad, yield loss can render wheat production uneconomical. Many other crops are grown in Europe that make a fraction of total agriculture. Herbicide options are limited for these minor crops, particularly in the vegetable sector. Long-term field studies call pendimethalin efficient for controlling blackgrass.
The related herbicide profluralin is more effective against johnsongrass than pendimethalin.
In 2012, 6–12 million pounds (2,700–5,400 t) of pendimethalin was used in the US.


== Mode of action ==
Pendimethalin acts pre-weed-emergence and early post-emergence. Pendimethalin is absorbed into roots and shoots, inhibits cell division and prevents growth, to prevent weeds from emerging.
The HRAC classifies by mode of action; pendimethalin is listed as Group K1, (global), AKA Group D (Australia) or Group 3 (numeric).


== Possible carcinogenic effects ==
At least one study suggests pendimethalin exposure is associated with pancreatic cancer. 
A French study found no association with lung cancer.
The mechanism behind this purported increased risk is unknown, but pendimethalin exposure appears to reduce apoptosis in cultured tumor cells.


== Resistance ==
Herbicide resistance harms efficacy. Until 2009 pendimethalin showed no resistance. It is not cross-resistant with other grass weed herbicides, so pendimethalin can be coäpplied with herbicides of other modes of action. Lolium rigidum has evolved resistance to pendimethalin, at least in part due to increased cytochrome P450 activity. This resistance mechanism in ryegrass (shared with other dinitroanilines like trifluralin, see for longer explanation) is by an opposing mutation to resistance to prosulfocarb, a thiocarbamate herbicide. By evolving resistance to one, the weed devolves its resistance to the other.


== Registrative status ==
Pendimethalin is registered globally for a wide range of crops, by the European Commission, US-EPA, Canada-PMRA, Japan, Brazil-ANVISA and others.


== Toxicology ==
Pendimethalin is not toxic to mammals, though interestingly the oral LD50 for rats and mice is 1050-1620 mg/kg, yet for dogs and rabbits it is much less harmful, at over 5000 mg/kg. For comparison, table salt's LD50 is 3000 mg/kg. There may be chronic effects however; repeated or prolonged skin exposure may cause allergic reactions such as eczema, hives or anaphylaxis. Prolonged exposure by other routes may affect changes to the liver.


== Soil behavior ==
Pendimethalin is highly persistent in soil and water. It has high potential for bioaccumulation, and it is moderately mobile in soil, despite it adsorbing strongly into soil.


== Tradenames ==
Tradenames include Pendimethalin 440, Satellite, Halts, Prowl, PRE-M, Stomp, Stealth and Pendulum, Hilpendi etc.


== References ==


== External links ==
Pendimethalin in the Pesticide Properties DataBase (PPDB)

Leopold is a small unincorporated community and Census-designated place in Leopold Township, Perry County, in the U.S. state of Indiana.
With a population of less than 100, Leopold is the site of a Roman Catholic church, St. Augustine; a general store, Guillaume's Store; and a restaurant, Marcy's. On the last Sunday in July, Leopold holds its annual St. Augustine's picnic, which serves both as a fundraiser for the local parish and as a homecoming for former residents.


== History ==
Leopold was founded in 1842 by the Reverend Augustine Bessonies and named for the then-reigning king of Belgium, Leopold I.
A post office was in operation at Leopold from 1846 until August 12, 2017.
Most of the original settlers of Leopold were Belgian emigres. These "lorrain" settlers were Catholics from the French-speaking southern region of Belgium which had formerly been part of Luxembourg. They were motivated to move to America from cities along the Meuse River bordering France, such as Florenville and Chiny, after Belgium was placed under Protestant rule in the 1830s. The land and climate of Perry County was similar to their homeland and made for an easier transition. Because this was an open frontier, immigrants were required to sign an oath renouncing any allegiance to King Leopold.


== Geography ==
Leopold is located fifteen miles north of the Ohio River.


== Education ==
Leopold Township is in Perry Central Community School Corporation.
Prior to 1962, the community had its own high school. The school colors were black and white, and the mascot was the leopards. That year, it merged into Perry Central High School.


== Demographics ==
The United States Census Bureau delineated Leopold as a census designated place in the 2022 American Community Survey.


== References ==

"Summertime of Our Lives" is a song by British-Norwegian boy band A1. It was released on 30 August 1999 as the second single from their debut studio album, Here We Come (1999). The single was released on 30 August 1999 and peaked at No. 5 on the UK Singles Chart.


== Track listings ==
UK CD1

"Summertime of Our Lives" – 3:21
"If You Were My Girl" – 4:50
"Summertime of Our Lives" (Metro club mix) – 5:26
CD extra
UK CD2

"Summertime of Our Lives" – 3:21
"Summertime of Our Lives" (Almighty club mix) – 8:16
"Be the First to Believe" (K-Klass Reprise) – 6:35
UK cassette single

"Summertime of Our Lives" – 3:21
"If You Were My Girl" – 4:50


== Charts ==


=== Weekly charts ===


=== Year-end charts ===


== References ==

Rajkumari or Raj Kumari may refer to:


== Title ==
princely title for a daughter of a Raja or equivalent royal princess in Southern Asia


== People ==
Rajkumari Singh (disambiguation), people known by the name Rajkumari Singh
Rajkumari Dubey (1924–2000), Indian playback singer in Hindi cinema of the 1930s and 40s
Rajkumari Kaul (1928–2014), Indian intellectual
Rajkumari Amrit Kaur (1887–1964), Indian activist and politician
Rajkumari Banerji (1847–1876), Indian social worker and Bengali philanthropist
Rajkumari Devi known also as Kisan Chachi, Indian farmer
Rajkumari Surajkala, Indian politician from Madhya Pradesh
Raj Kumari Pandey (born 1969), Nepalese long-distance runner
Raj Kumari Chauhan, Indian politician from Uttar Pradesh
Raj Kumari Dhillon, Indian politician from Delhi
Raj Kumari Thapa, Indian politician from Sikkim


== Other uses ==
Rajkumari (1970 film), an Indian Bengali-language masala film
Rajkumari (2009 film), an Indian Kannada language drama film


== See also ==
Rajakumari (disambiguation)
Raja Kumari, singer

Liverani is an Italian surname, may refer to:

Andrea Liverani (born 1990), Italian paralympic shooter
Augusto Liverani (1895–1945), Italian politician
Fabio Liverani (born 1976), Italian football player and coach
Luca Liverani (born 1989), Italian football player
Mario Liverani (born 1939), Italian historian
Massimo Liverani (born 1961), Italian rally driver
Maurizio Liverani (1928–2021), Italian journalist, filmmaker, and writer


== References ==

Djamila Silva (born 13 August 1996) is a Portuguese-born Cape Verdean judoka. Silva represented Cape Verde at the 2024 Summer Olympics, where she qualified via continental ranking. At the opening ceremonies, she was one of Cape Verde's flagbearers alongside boxer Daniel Varela de Pina. In the women's 52kg judo event, she lost by ippon in her opening match against Brazilian Larissa Pimenta.


== References ==


== External links ==
Djamila Silva at the International Judo Federation
Djamila Silva at JudoInside.com
Djamila Silva at Olympics.com
Djamila Silva at Olympedia
Djamila Silva at InterSportStats

The Tōkaidō Line (Japanese: 東海道線, romanized: Tōkaidō-sen) is a medium-distance train service operated by JR East on the Tōkaidō Main Line between Tokyo Station and Atami Station. It used to be called the "Shōnan Train".


== Overview ==
The line color for the Tōkaidō Line is orange, and is used on the body of the trains. When the line was operated by Japan National Railways (JNR), the term "Shonan Tram" was used in passenger information to refer to regular trains in this section. The route symbol used in station numbering is JT. The Tōkaidō Line runs from Tokyo, through Kanagawa prefecture, and into Shizuoka prefecture. The termini of the line are Tokyo station at the Tokyo end, and Atami station at the Shizuoka end.


== Operations ==
Formerly operated almost entirely to and from Tokyo Station, since the December 1, 2001, revision, the Shonan Shinjuku Line has operated directly to the Takasaki Line via the Yokosuka Line tracks and Shinjuku Station on the Yamanote Freight Line. Since the 2015 revision on March 14, a rail was built from Tokyo Station to Ueno Station, which was the starting station for the Utsunomiya Line, Takasaki Line, and Joban Line. Through this rail, direct operation with the three aforementioned lines started as the Ueno–Tokyo Line.
Tōkaidō Line trains run on a dedicated double track (train rail) between Tokyo Station and Ofuna Station. The line has fewer stations with platforms than the parallel Yamanote  Line and Keihin-Tōhoku Line and the Yokosuka Line, and in this section, trains, including regular trains, effectively play the role of express transport. The Shonan Shinjuku Line operates on the Yokosuka Line tracks from Osaki Station on the Yamanote Freight Line to Totsuka Station via a connecting line (Osaki Branch Line), but on this line, trains directly connected to the Tokaido Line and Takasaki Line only stop at Yokohama Station and Musashi Kosugi Station. The line is also separated from the Tokaido Freight Line between Tokyo Station and Odawara Station, where freight trains run, so that a large number of passenger trains can be operated without being affected by the freight train schedule.


=== Train schedule ===
The Ueno Tokyo Line and trains to/from Tokyo Station (and southward) are mainly "Local" trains that stop at stations on the Tōkaidō Line. The Shōnan Shinjuku Line offers two types of trains on the Tōkaidō Line: Special Rapid trains (rapid service west of Totsuka Station) and Rapid trains (stopping at every station west of Totsuka Station). Most trains connect directly with the Utsunomiya and Takasaki Lines for Akabane Station, Urawa Station, and Ōmiya Station via Ueno Station or Shinjuku Station, and the Tōkaidō Line (〈Tsurumi Station -〉 Yokohama Station – Ōfuna Station) and the Utsunomiya Line (Akabane Station – Ōmiya Station) are almost integrated as an operation system (this article will not cover this in detail). (Including the Yokosuka Line system of the Shōnan Shinjuku Line, which is not detailed in this article.)
During daytime hours, except for limited express trains, no trains start or end at Tokyo Station, and the Ueno Tokyo Line (excluding trains directly connected to the Joban Line) operates six Local trains per hour. Three trains each directly connect to the Utsunomiya Line and the Takasaki Line. Downbound trains are now departing every 10 minutes, continuing the timetable established in the March 3, 1986, revision. For the up trains as well, the trains arriving at Tokyo Station have been scheduled at approximately 10-minute intervals since the March 14, 2015, revision. The Shōnan Shinjuku Line operates one special rapid and one rapid train per hour, and the total number of trains per hour during the day, excluding limited expresses on the Tōkaidō Line, is six between Tokyo Station and Yokohama Station and Totsuka Station, eight between Totsuka Station and Hiratsuka Station, five between Hiratsuka Station and Kōzu Station and Odawara Station, and three between Odawara Station and Atami Station.


== Lines sharing sections ==
The Tōkaidō Line is one of JR East's services operating on the Tōkaidō Main Line. Others include the Yamanote Line (between Tokyo Station and Shinagawa Station) and the Keihin–Tōhoku Line (between Tokyo Station and Yokohama Station). The Tōkaidō Line runs parallel to these two services and their sections. In the parallel section, the Keihin–Tōhoku Line and the Yamanote Line mainly provide all-station stops and short-distance transportation services, while the Tōkaidō Line provides rapid and medium-distance transportation services, including local trains. The Yokosuka Line, which also runs parallel to the Tōkaidō Line, provides all-station stop service between Totsuka Station and Yokohama Station, while the Tōkaidō Line provides rapid service on this section. The Tōkaidō Line runs on the Tōkaidō Main Line's train rails, while the Yamanote Line (between Tokyo Station and Shinagawa Station) and Keihin-Tōhoku Line (between Tokyo Station and Yokohama Station) run on the Tokaido Main Line's electric train rails, and the Yokosuka Line runs on its own dedicated rails.
Train rail has fewer station platforms, whereas electric train rail has more station platforms. The Tōkaidō Line is in competition with the Keikyu Main Line, which runs parallel to the Tokaido Line between Shinagawa Station and Yokohama Station. As the oldest trunk line in Japan, factories and residential areas were developed along the line early on, and the urban area extends continuously from Tokyo Station to Odawara Station, which is over 80 km away. Some trains also run directly to Numazu Station via a section of the Tōkaidō Main Line operated by Central Japan Railway Company (JR Central). The line is a commuter route from cities along the line to central Tokyo, and the "Odoriko" and "Saphir Odoriko" express trains connect the Kanto region and the Izu Peninsula directly to the Ito Line and Izu Kyuko Line. The "Sunrise Seto/Izumo", a  limited express overnight sleeping car train service Tokyo and the Chugoku and Shikoku regions, which is now the only regular overnight train on the JR Lines.
In the 21st century, the Shōnan–Shinjuku Line
began direct service with the Takasaki Line via Shinjuku Station in 2001, and the Ueno Tokyo Line began direct service with the Tohoku Main Line (Utsunomiya Line), Takasaki Line, and Joban Line from Tokyo to the northern Kanto region in 2015 .(The Ueno–Tokyo Line on the Joban Line stops at Shinagawa Station).


== Commuter services ==
With morning rush hour passengers accounting for half of the total number of daily regular train passengers (as of 1989), and with intensifying congestion due to the increase in long-distance commuters, JR East has been focusing on improving rush-hour transportation. Efforts have been made to alleviate congestion by increasing the number of commuter liners (the current Limited express "Shōnan") that make effective use of the Tōkaidō Freight Line, improving seating service by connecting double-decker green cars, increasing train length by forming 15-car trains, increasing capacity by making seats longer and introducing 4-door standard cars.


== History ==
1950:
March 1: 80 series "Shōnan Train" started operation between Tokyo Station and Numazu Station.
July: "Shōnan Train" operation section was extended to Shizuoka Station.
February 15, 1951: "Shōnan Train" operation section is extended to Hamamatsu Station.
November 1958: 153 series (originally 91 series), the successor to 80 series, begins operation. When it first appeared, it was called the "New Shōnan type".
September 1962: Started operation of 111 series.
1964: Operation of 113 series, a power-enhanced version of 111 series, began.  At this time, there were about two regular trains per hour connecting Tokyo Station to Hiratsuka, Odawara, and Atami Stations for short distances, Ito, Numazu, and Shizuoka Stations for medium distances, and Hamamatsu, Toyohashi, Nagoya, Maibara, and Ogaki Stations for long distances, and about three honor trains per hour connecting various regions.
October 1968: Local train operation by passenger cars ended and all local trains were replaced by electric trains.
March 15, 1972: Daytime regular trains between Tokyo Station and Maibarara Station, Ogaki Station, and Toyohashi Station were subdivided. The service section of daytime local trains departing from and arriving at Tokyo Station was shortened to Hamamatsu Station.
1973: Direct trains on the Takasaki Line (via Tokyo Station) were discontinued. It operated between Maebashi Station – Tokyo Station – Numazu Station and Fuji Station on the Ryomo Line, etc., initially with passenger cars and later with 115 series (regular cars only).
March 28, 1977: Operation of 80 series was terminated.
Until 1970s, unlike today, Tōkaido Line trains (Shōnan trains) and Yokosuka Line trains had shared the same track between Tokyo Station and Ofuna Station. Tōkaido Line trains had passed through Totsuka Station. In addition, during the morning rush hour, up trains also had passed through Kawasaki Station to prevent train delays due to congestion. During the morning rush hour, the ratio of the number of trains on the Tōkaido Line and Yokosuka Line in the up direction was roughly 2:1, and the two lines together operated at 3-minute intervals. During the daytime, there were three regular trains per hour on the Tokaido Line to and from Tokyo Station.
October 1, 1980: Yokosuka Line trains were routed via the underground line (between Tokyo and Shinagawa Stations) and a branch line, the Hinkaku Line (Shinagawa – Shin-Kawasaki – Tsurumi Stations), completely separating the line from the Tōkaido Line trains (SM separation). Totsuka Station is added as a stop for Tōkaido Line  local trains. During the morning rush hour, all up local trains will stop at Kawasaki Station, and the interval between trains will be about every 4 minutes. Daytime regular trains to and from Tokyo Station are increased to 4 trains per hour.
October 1, 1981: The morning rush hour up trains were increased to approximately every 3 minutes. During the daytime, about one rapid train per hour was set up as an extra train, mainly on holidays.
February 14, 1983: 153 series was discontinued. The 165 series, which was mixed with the same series, remained in service until March 16, 1996.
1986:
March 3: The 211 series began operation. Daytime trains to and from Tokyo Station were increased to 6 trains per hour and every 10 minutes.
November 1: The last major timetable revision by JNR took place. The Shōnan Liner service was newly established between Tokyo and Odawara Stations. Initially, there were two up trains and four down trains.
April 1, 1987: With the privatization of Japan National Railways (JNR), the line between Tokyo Station and Atami Station was taken over by East Japan Railway Company (JR East). The line west of Atami Station became under the jurisdiction of Central Japan Railway Company (JR Central), and the line became a mutual transit system after Atami Station.
1988:
March 13: The longest direct daytime local train service to JR Central (Shizuoka block) was extended to Shizuoka Station for down trains and to Shimada Station for up trains, and the direct service to Hamamatsu Station was discontinued.
July 6: "Shōnan Shinjuku Liner" was newly established.
1989:
February 2: 113 series and 211 series double-decker green cars started operation.
March 11, 1990: The rapid "Acty" began operation, with 11 round trips per day.
March 10, 1990: The nighttime downhill "Acty" rapid was changed to a commuter rapid with no stops between Shinagawa and Ofuna. New trains starting from Yokohama were added at night.
March 14, 1992: The 215 series was introduced and began operation on the "Shōnan Liner" and rapid "Acty" trains.
1993:
October 31: The security system between Tokyo and Ofuna Stations was changed to ATS-P.
December 1: The 215 series trains were added to the fleet. The rapid "Acty" service was increased to 9 down trains, 13 up trains on weekdays, and 15 up trains on holidays, of which 7 round trips were operated by the 215 series. A dedicated platform for liners was installed on the freight line at Fujisawa Station.
1994:
February 27: The security device between Ofuna and Odawara Stations was changed to ATS-P.
December 3, 1997: A dedicated platform for Liner trains was also installed at Chigasaki Station.
March 22, 1997: The timetable of down trains between 8:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. was patterned.
March 14, 1998: With the restoration of the two-sided four-lane Tokaido Line platform at Tokyo Station following the completion of the Hokuriku Shinkansen boarding work and the introduction of ATS-P, additional trains were made possible, and two up trains were set to depart from Ninomiya Station during morning rush hours. Some of the rapid "Acty" trains started stopping at Hayakawa and Nebukawa Stations. In addition, "Holiday Rapid View Shonan" trains departing from and arriving at Shinjuku Station were set up as extra trains on holidays.
December 1, 2001: The Shōnan–Shinjuku Line started operation during the daytime, directly connecting to the Takasaki Line via Shinjuku Station. The 211 series, E231 series, and 215 series trains were used (except for the 215 series, which were not coupled with green cars). Meanwhile, the number of trains to and from Tokyo Station was reduced from seven to six per hour. Operation of the 215 series on the rapid "Acty" service was terminated.
December 1, 2002: The operating hours of the Shōnan–Shinjuku Line were expanded to morning and evening. With this change, "Shonan Shinjuku Liner" was renamed "Ohayou Liner Shinjuku" and "Home Liner Odawara".
October 16, 2004: The Shōnan–Shinjuku Line was increased, and "Special Rapid" and "Rapid" trains were set up on the Tokaido Line during the daytime, one per hour respectively. E231 series trains for the Tokaido Line (belonging to the Kōzu Vehicle Center and coupled with green cars) began operation. All trains on the Shōnan–Shinjuku Line are now of the same series, and the maximum speed is increased from 100 km/h to 120 km/h. At the same time, the green car Suica system service was started. All trains of the rapid "Acty" service stopped at each station between Odawara and Atami stations; direct service with JR Central (Shizuoka Block) became only morning, evening, and night service, and the direct section was reduced to Numazu Station, except for one round trip to/from Shizuoka.
March 17, 2006: Operation of the 113 series was terminated. E217 series trains converted from the Yokosuka and Sobu Rapid Line started operation.
March 18, 2007: All trains of the rapid "Acty" started stopping at Totsuka Station.
2008: E233 series trains started operation.
March 13, 2010: With the opening of Musashi Kosugi Station on the Yokosuka Line, all trains of the Shōnan–Shinjuku Line started stopping at the station.
June 24 – September 9, 2011: Due to the power shortage caused by the Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred on March 11, 2011, a special power-saving schedule was implemented during weekdays. The operation of the rapid "Acty" has been cancelled, except for some parts.
2012.
March 17: Local trains between Tokyo Station and Shizuoka Station by JR Central's 373 series were discontinued. Direct service to the Gotemba Line was discontinued.
April: Operation of the 211 series was terminated.
2013.
March 16: Local trains operated by spacing operation of 185 series were replaced by E231 series. As a result, all local trains are now equipped with 4-door cars.
August 19: Semi-automatic doors began year-round operation for the first trains at Tokyo, Shinagawa, Odawara, and Atami stations.
March 14, 2015: With the opening of the Ueno Tokyo Line, trains to and from Tokyo Station began direct service with the Utsunomiya and Takasaki Lines. The Joban Line trains also started boarding at Shinagawa Station, and the E217 series trains were no longer operated on the Tokaido Line.
October 1, 2016: Station numbering was introduced between Tokyo Station and Ofuna Station. The route symbol is JT.
November 2018: Fujisawa Station – Atami Station was added to the section subject to station numbering.
March 13, 2021: "Shōnan Liner", "Ohayo Liner Shinjuku", and "Home Liner Odawara" were discontinued, and the limited express "Shōnan" started operation. The rapid "Acty" was changed to operate only between Tokyo Station and Odawara Station on down trains at night, and its direct connection with the Utsunomiya Line was discontinued. South of Hiratsuka Station, service will be reduced. The rapid "Acty" trains at other times are changed to local trains. The commuter rapid service has been discontinued.
March 18, 2023: Of the two rapid "Acty" trains that had been in service since the March 13, 2021, timetable revision, one has been replaced by a local train and the other has been discontinued.


== Station list ==
Legend:

Only stations with station platforms on the train rail are listed.
●: All trains stop
｜: All trains pass
▲: Shōnan–Shinjuku Line trains use Yokosuka Line platforms


== References ==


== Notes ==

Gympie Hammers Rugby Union Club is a rugby union football club based located in Gympie, Queensland. The club currently play in the Sunshine Coast Rugby Union's Sunshine Coast Cup.


== History ==
The Gympie club was one of the clubs to contest the 1982 Sunshine Coast Rugby Union competition. Formed in 1980 and briefly folded in 2009
Gympie Hammers Rugby Union Club re-joined the Sunshine Coast competition in 2014 and has been going strong since. Their junior numbers as of 2022 are in excess of 250 players, with both a men's and women's Rugby teams competing on a senior level


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Gympie Rugby Union Club on Facebook

Section 96 of the Constitution of Australia authorises the Australian (Commonwealth) Parliament to grant financial assistance to any state on the terms and conditions that it sees fit, subject to acceptance by the state(s) concerned. The expanded use of the power under section 96 has added to Australia's vertical fiscal imbalance and enabled the Commonwealth to have a significant influence over matters that would otherwise be constitutionally State responsibilities.


== Text ==
During a period of ten years after the establishment of the Commonwealth and thereafter until the Parliament otherwise provides, the Parliament [of the Commonwealth] may grant financial assistance to any State on such terms and conditions as the Parliament thinks fit.


== Tied grants ==
Section 51 of the Australian Constitution enumerates the legislative powers of Commonwealth, with the residual powers being those of the States. However, section 96 provides the Commonwealth with the power to grant money to any state. These monetary grants are typically tied to certain terms and conditions (often legislative) that the states must adhere to in order to receive the grant. As these grants are linked to a particular purpose, they are known as 'tied grants'.  In practice, section 96 has provided the Commonwealth parliament with the ability to influence policy matters that lie within the residual powers of the States (e.g. education, health, water, etc.).


== Vertical fiscal imbalance ==
Although the Australian Constitution allows both States and the Commonwealth to raise revenue, subsequent political developments and judicial interpretations have limited state taxing powers and led to Australia's vertical fiscal imbalance. The Commonwealth has significantly greater revenue-raising abilities than the states, which have spending responsibilities. The result is that states rely on Commonwealth grants to fund state-provided services such as schools and hospitals. The power to distribute funds to states on conditions has expanded the sphere of Commonwealth power through dictating policy through conditional grants. This limits the autonomy and power of the states in controlling policy. 
This is largely due to the uniform federal system of income tax that was introduced in 1942 in accordance with s51(ii). Additionally, Section 51(iv) grants the Commonwealth control over state borrowings, furthering the reliance of the States on Commonwealth funding.  The vertical fiscal imbalance, alongside section 96 of the Australian Constitution has effectively extended the Commonwealth's powers beyond those enumerated in section 51 of the Australian Constitution and other explicit enumerations of Commonwealth legislative power (e.g. section 52 and section 90).


== Use of s.96 to take over State income taxing power ==
Before 1942, consistent with the concurrent power in s51(ii), both the states and the Commonwealth levied income taxes. However, in 1942 the Commonwealth attempted to gain a monopoly on income taxes by passing the Income Tax Act 1942 and the States Grants (Income Tax Reimbursement) Act 1942. The Income Tax Act imposed a Commonwealth income tax, while the Grants Act provided Commonwealth funding to the States on condition that they do not imposed an income tax, based on section 96 of the Australian Constitution.
The Income Tax Act 1942 set high tax rates that reflected the combined current Commonwealth and State taxes and made imposing State tax unattractive or impossible. This was because the Income Tax Assessment Act 1942 said that individuals had to pay Commonwealth tax before State taxes. In effect, the scheme meant either the States had to accept grants and stop taxing, or decline grants and try to collect tax at rates which were unsustainable.
The High Court has interpreted the expression "terms and conditions" very broadly. In South Australia v Commonwealth (1942) 65 CLR 373 (the First Uniform Tax case) the scheme was upheld. There was an opinion that the scheme, introduced in 1942, was upheld on the basis of the defence power in section 51(vi). The Commonwealth re-enacted the scheme after the war. There was a second constitutional challenge, and the scheme was again upheld on the basis of section 96, in Victoria v Commonwealth (1957) 99 CLR 575 (the Second Uniform Tax case).


== See also ==
Commonwealth Grants Commission
Fiscal imbalance in Australia


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Bennett, Scott; Webb, Richard (2008). "Research Paper no. 17: Specific purpose payments and the Australian federal system" (PDF). Research Papers 2007–08. Australian Parliamentary Library.
Parkin, Andrew; Summers, John; Woodward, Dennis, eds. (2006). Government, Politics, Power and Policy in Australia (8th ed.). Pearson Education Australia. ISBN 978-1-74091110-8.
Taylor, Greg (2016). "On the origin of section 96 of the Constitution" (PDF). UNSW Law Journal. 39 (4): 1438–1465.

The 2012 All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship was the 125th staging of the All-Ireland hurling championship since its establishment by the Gaelic Athletic Association in 1887. The draw for the 2012 fixtures took place on 6 October 2011. The championship began on 19 May 2012 and ended on 30 September 2012.
Kilkenny were the defending champions and successfully retained their title following a 3–22 to 3–11 victory over Galway in a replay of the final.


== Teams ==
A total of fourteen teams contested the championship, including all of the teams from the 2011 championship. There were no new teams entering the championship.
Laois and Westmeath were the first teams to exit the 2011 championship, however, there was no relegation play-off.  Both teams contested the 2012 championship.
Kerry, the winners of the 2011 Christy Ring Cup, declined their automatic right to promotion to the championship. They instead contested the Christy Ring Cup once again.


=== General information ===
Fourteen counties will compete in the All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship: nine teams in the Leinster Senior Hurling Championship and five teams in the Munster Senior Hurling Championship.


=== Team summaries ===


==== Stadiums and locations ====


==== Personnel and kits ====


== The Championship ==


=== Format ===
The All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship of 2012 will be run on a provincial basis as usual.  It will be a knockout tournament with pairings drawn at random in the respective provinces – there will be no seeds.
Each match will be played as a single leg. If a match is drawn there will be a replay.  If that match ends in a draw a period of extra time will be played, however, if both sides are still level at the end of extra time another replay will take place.
Leinster Championship
Preliminary Round: (2 matches) These will be two matches between four of the 'weaker' teams from the province.  The two winning teams will advance to the quarter-finals while the two losing teams will enter the All-Ireland qualifiers.
Quarter-finals: (3 matches) The winners of the two preliminary round games will join the other four Leinster teams to make up three quarter-final pairings.  The three winning teams will advance to the semi-finals while the three losing teams will enter the All-Ireland qualifiers.
Semi-finals: (2 matches) The three winners of the quarter-finals will join Kilkenny (who, as reigning provincial champions, will receive a bye to this stage) to make up the semi-final pairings.  The two winning teams will advance to the final while the two losing teams will enter the All-Ireland qualifiers.
Final: (1 match) The winners of the two semi-finals will contest this game.  The winning team will advance to the All-Ireland semi-final while the losing team will advance to the All-Ireland quarter-final.
Munster Championship
Quarter-final: (1 match) This will be a single match between the first two teams drawn from the province of Munster.  The losing team will enter the All-Ireland qualifiers while the winners will advance to the semi-finals.
Semi-finals: (2 matches) The winner of the lone quarter-final will join the other three Munster teams to make up the semi-final pairings.  The two winning teams will advance to the final while the two losing teams will enter the All-Ireland qualifiers.
Final: (1 match) The winners of the two semi-finals will contest this game.  The winning team will advance to the All-Ireland semi-final while the losing team will advance to the All-Ireland quarter-final.
All-Ireland Qualifiers
Preliminary round: (2 matches) These will be two matches between the first four teams drawn from the six teams who lose their provincial preliminary round games and provincial quarter-final games. The two winning teams will advance to phase 1 of the All-Ireland qualifiers while the two losing teams will be eliminated from the championship.
Phase 1: (2 matches) The two winners of the preliminary qualifiers will join the two remaining provincial first round and provincial quarter-final losers to make up the phase 1 pairings.  The two winning teams will advance to phase 3 while the two losing teams will be eliminated from the championship.
Phase 2: (2 matches) These will be two matches between the four teams who lose their provincial semi-final games. The two winning teams will advance to phase 3 of the All-Ireland qualifiers while the two losing teams will be eliminated from the championship.
Phase 3: (2 matches) These will be two matches between the two phase 1 winners and the two phase 2 winners. The two winning teams will advance to the All-Ireland quarter-finals while the two losing teams will be eliminated from the championship.
All-Ireland Championship
Quarter-finals: (2 matches) These will bet two lone matches between the defeated provincial finalists and the two winning teams from phase 3 of the qualifiers.  The two winning teams will advance to the All-Ireland semi-finals while the two losing teams will be eliminated from the championship.
Semi-finals: (2 matches) The two quarter-final winning teams will join the two provincial winning teams to make up the semi-final pairings. The two winning teams will advance to the All-Ireland final while the two losing teams will be eliminated from the championship.
Final: (1 match) The winners of the two semi-finals will contest this game.  The winning team will be declared All-Ireland champions.


== Leinster Senior Hurling Championship ==


== Munster Senior Hurling Championship ==


== All-Ireland Qualifiers ==


=== Preliminary round ===


=== Phase 1 ===


=== Phase 2 ===


=== Phase 3 ===


== All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship ==


=== Quarter-finals ===


=== Semi-finals ===


=== Final ===


== Statistics ==


=== Scoring ===
First goal of the championship: Pa Bourke for Tipperary against Limerick (Munster quarter-final, 27 May 2012)


==== Top scorers ====
Overall

Single game


=== Miscellaneous ===
Westmeath's defeat of Antrim in the Leinster preliminary round is their first ever victory over the team in the championship. It is only the second ever meeting of the sides in the championship.
In the Leinster quarter-final, Offaly defeat Wexford for the first time since 2000.
For the first time in championship history Waterford qualify for a fourth consecutive Munster final.
In the Leinster semi-final between Kilkenny and Dublin, Henry Shefflin becomes the first player in championship history to surpass 500 points.
Limerick's score of 6–21 against Laois in the All-Ireland qualifiers is their highest ever tally in a championship match.  One week later they break this record by scoring 8–26 against Antrim.
The Munster semi-final meeting of Cork and Tipperary sets a new record as the ninth consecutive year that the sides have met in championship hurling. Previous consecutive meetings stretched from 1949 (draw and replay) to 1954 – a total of seven games in six years. Earlier, eight games were played in the seven-year period 1907 to 1913, however, two of those games were played in the calendar year of 1908.
In the Leinster final Henry Shefflin becomes Kilkenny's most "capped" player of all-time when he makes his 58th championship appearance. His goal in that game preserves his unique record of being the only player in history to score a goal in fourteen consecutive championship seasons.
Galway make history by winning the Leinster Championship for the first time.
Cork and Galway meet in an All-Ireland semi-final for the first time since 1985.
Tipperary's eighteen point defeat by Kilkenny in the All-Ireland semi-final is their biggest defeat in the championship since a 4–16 to 0–2 defeat by Cork in 1897.
The All-Ireland final sees Kilkenny face Galway in the championship decider for the first time since 1993. It is a record seventh All-Ireland final in succession for Kilkenny while Galway qualify for the All-Ireland final for the first time since 2005.
The All-Ireland final goes to a replay for the first time since 1959.
As a result of Kilkenny's defeat of Galway in the championship decider, Henry Shefflin becomes the only player in championship history to win nine All-Ireland medals on the field of play.


=== Player facts ===
Debutantes
The following players made their début in the 2012 championship:

Retirees
The following players played their last game in the 2012 championship:


== Awards ==
Monthly


== Managerial changes ==
The following managerial change took place during the championship.


== See also ==
2012 National Hurling League


== References ==


== External links ==
2012 Fixtures and Results

Ipanema (Portuguese pronunciation: [ipaˈnẽmɐ]) is a neighbourhood located in the South Zone of the city of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, between Leblon and Arpoador. The beach at Ipanema became known internationally with the popularity of the bossa nova song, "The Girl from Ipanema" ("Garota de Ipanema"), written by Antônio Carlos Jobim and Vinícius de Moraes. It borders the neighborhoods of Copacabana, Leblon, and Lagoa.


== Etymology ==
The name Ipanema originally referred to a river in the state of São Paulo, its etymology deriving from the Tupi language words ipá (pond) and nem-a (stinking). Possible translations for its original meaning are "worthless water", "stinking lake", "turbid water", or "water worthless for human consumption". The historian Teodoro Sampaio translated Ipanema as "bad water".
The neighbourhood in Rio de Janeiro was named after José Antônio Moreira Filho, 2nd Baron of Ipanema, who in 1883 created the first urban settlement in the region.
The border area between Copacabana and Ipanema is known locally as "Copanema".


== History ==
Ipanema today consists mostly of land that once belonged to José Antônio Moreira Filho, Baron of Ipanema. The name "Ipanema" did not originally refer to the beach, but to the homeland of the baron at São Paulo.


== Character ==

Ipanema is adjacent to Copacabana and Leblon beaches, but it is distinct from its neighbours. It is relatively easy to navigate because the streets are aligned in a grid. Ipanema's beach culture includes surfers and sunbathers who gather daily at the beach. Every Sunday, the roadway closest to the beach is closed to motor vehicles, allowing local residents and tourists to ride bikes, roller skate, skateboard, and walk along the ocean. Ipanema is one of Rio's most expensive districts to live in; private investment has led to the building of world-class restaurants, shops, and cafés.
Ipanema has played a cultural role in Rio de Janeiro since the city's beginning, with its own universities, art galleries, and theatres. It holds a street parade, the Banda de Ipanema, during Carnival festivities separate from those of Rio de Janeiro, attracting up to 50,000 people to the streets of Ipanema.


== Beach ==

The beach at Ipanema is known for its elegant development and its social life. Two mountains called the Dois Irmãos (Two Brothers) rise at the western end of the beach, which is divided into segments delineated by postos, or lifeguard towers. Beer is sold everywhere, along with the traditional cachaça.  There are always circles of people playing football, volleyball, and footvolley, a locally invented sport that is a combination of volleyball and football.
In the winter, the surf can reach three metres (nine feet). The water quality varies from clear light-blue water to a more murky green after heavy rains. Constant swells help keep the water clean, and the often treacherous beach break regularly forms surfable barrels. Just west of this colourful section, towards Leblon, Rio de Janeiro, is another popular stretch of sand known as Posto 10, referring to the #10 lifeguard station.
The beach is one of many areas that suffer from the city's poor waste treatment. In its waters, "fecal coliform bacteria sometimes spike at 16 times the Brazilian government's 'satisfactory' level." Large amounts of pollutants are still dumped into the sea through the nearby marine outfall pipe, a matter of increasing concern to ecologists.
Beachgoers often applaud the sunset in the summer. In 2008, the Travel Channel listed Ipanema Beach as the sexiest beach in the world.


== Posto 9 ==

Posto 9 is the section of the beach around the #9 lifeguard station, across from Joana Angelica Street. Its notoriety began around 1979 when Fernando Gabeira, later a federal deputy for the State of Rio de Janeiro, returned from political exile in France and was photographed there in a thong. He had been a member of the leftist urban guerrilla group MR8, which kidnapped the American ambassador, Charles Burke Elbrick, in 1969 and demanded the release of fifteen political prisoners in exchange for his life.
Gabeira became a political celebrity with the publication of a memoir about his experiences as a guerrilla and his years in exile. In 1979, he was photographed wearing a skimpy purple swimsuit at Ipanema, and gave an interview to a gay and lesbian newspaper, inciting rumours that he was gay, which he neither confirmed nor denied. His going to the beach at Posto 9 made it famous throughout the country.

Posto 9 inherited its status as a gathering spot for counter-cultural types from the area near Farme de Amoedo Street, next to the dunes called Dunas do Barato and a pier that was demolished in the 1970s.  It has a long history of public cannabis smoking (illegal in Brazil), police raids, and gatherings of left-wing intellectuals. It is still popular with students, artists, actors, and liberal-minded people.


== Feira Hippie de Ipanema ==
A group of hippies started a Sunday market in Ipanema in 1968, and the traditional fair continues with over 700 stalls set up at the Feira Hippie de Ipanema (Ipanema Hippie Market).


== Cultural references ==
Ipanema gained fame with the rise of the popular bossa nova sound, when residents Antônio Carlos Jobim and Vinicius de Moraes created their ode to the neighbourhood, "The Girl from Ipanema". The song was written in 1962, with music by Jobim and Portuguese lyrics by de Moraes; English lyrics were written later by Norman Gimbel.


== References ==
Notes


== External links ==

back to Rio, RGSSA blog post contains images of Ipanema Beach, 1914
Ipanema Beach

Upper Crossing is an unincorporated community in Restigouche County, New Brunswick, Canada.


== History ==


== Notable people ==


== See also ==
List of communities in New Brunswick


== References ==

Mattias Jorstedt is a Swedish former professional  Magic: The Gathering player and poker player. He is most famous for winning Pro Tour Yokohama in 2003 and the fact that he during the 2002-2003 season reached three Pro Tour top eights, winning one, and still only finished second in the player of the year-race 16 points behind winner Kai Budde. Around Scandinavia Jorstedt is also famous for winning the first ever Nordic Championship of Magic held in Denmark in the year 2000.


== Achievements ==

Last updated: 13 october 2014Source: Wizards.comSvenskamagic.com


== References ==

Lloyd Harris (March 14, 1867 – September 27, 1925) was a businessman and politician in Ontario, Canada. He represented Brantford in the House of Commons of Canada from 1908 to 1911 as a Liberal.
Harris was born in Beamsville, Ontario, the son of John Harris and Alice Jane Tufford, and was educated in Brantford and Woodstock. He joined A. Harris, Son & Co. Ltd., a firm established by his grandfather, Alanson Harris, which manufactured farm equipment and later became part of Massey-Harris. He was president of a number of companies, including the Canada Glue Company, the Brantford Screw Company, and the Harris Trust Company.
Harris served on the town council for Brantford from 1905 to 1906.
He married three times: 

to Mary Catherine Perkins in 1887;
to Evelyn Frances Blackmore in 1896 (this marriage ended in divorce in March 1924); and
to Jane Hendrick Robertson, the widow of John Sinclair Robertson, in April 1924.
Harris was nominated as a candidate for the 1925 federal election but died in Brantford before the election was held.


== See also ==
Bell Telephone Memorial


== References ==


== External links ==
"Canada Glue Company". Brantford Public Library. Retrieved 28 August 2009.

"Naked" is the twelfth episode of the fourth season of the American musical television series Glee, and the seventy-eighth episode overall. Written and directed by co-creators Ryan Murphy and Ian Brennan, respectively, it aired on Fox in the United States on January 31, 2013.


== Plot ==
The Dalton Academy Warblers are exposed for using steroids for their participation in Sectionals, and New Directions is given another chance to compete in Regionals. To raise money for the bus, Tina Cohen-Chang (Jenna Ushkowitz) successfully proposes they make a sexy "Men of McKinley" calendar with the male members of the New Directions.
Meanwhile, in New York City, Rachel Berry (Lea Michele) is asked to star in a student film, but becomes conflicted when she learns the role requires her to be topless. After singing "Torn", Rachel decides to go through with it. Although her boyfriend Brody Weston (Dean Geyer) supports her, Kurt Hummel (Chris Colfer) does not agree with her decision and calls Quinn Fabray (Dianna Agron) and Santana Lopez (Naya Rivera) to convince Rachel not to do it, but Rachel remains decided.
In Lima, Principal Figgins (Iqbal Theba) informs Brittany Pierce (Heather Morris) that she had excellent grades in her SATs, but her boyfriend Sam Evans (Chord Overstreet) had a terrible score. Sam becomes convinced that he can only rely on his body to be successful, and through a mash-up of "Centerfold" and "Hot in Herre", pushes the guys of New Directions for the calendar, causing conflict with Artie Abrams (Kevin McHale), who is uncomfortable with his body. Cheerleading coach Sue Sylvester (Jane Lynch) tries to stop the calendar from being released, but Finn (Cory Monteith) blackmails her with her own nude photoshoot for Penthouse magazine.
Brittany also convinces Marley Rose (Melissa Benoist) to declare her feelings for Jake Puckerman (Jacob Artist). They duet on "A Thousand Years", but Marley cannot bring herself to say it. Advised by Ryder Lynn (Blake Jenner), Jake then declares his feelings through a performance of "Let Me Love You (Until You Learn to Love Yourself)", and Marley reciprocates his feelings. Meanwhile, Blaine convinces Sam to stop pushing himself so hard, and, with help from guidance counselor Emma Pillsbury (Jayma Mays), selects colleges that do not require good SAT scores.
In New York City, Rachel eventually decides not to do the topless scene and thanks Quinn and Santana for their support. They perform "Love Song" together, and Santana voices her interest in moving to New York City. Meanwhile, in Lima, Sam apologizes to Artie for his actions, and convinces Tina to change the themes of the calendar so Artie can pose without having to be nude. They then join the others in a performance of "This Is the New Year".


== Production ==
The episode was written by Glee co-creator Ryan Murphy and directed by a second co-creator, Ian Brennan.
Murphy tweeted a picture from the Men of McKinley calendar shoot for this episode over the weekend of December 15, 2012; the calendar was subsequently confirmed to be in an upcoming episode.
One of the songs in the episode, "Torn", is performed by Michele as a duet between the "old" Rachel and "new" Rachel after Rachel has been cast in a student film; her role includes a topless sequence. Shooting the song required her to perform the entire song twice, once as each of the two Rachels: "they're syncing it together to have me on-screen together".
Recurring characters in this episode include school guidance counselor Emma Pillsbury (Jayma Mays), Yale student Quinn Fabray (Dianna Agron), and glee club members Joe Hart (Samuel Larsen), Wade "Unique" Adams (Alex Newell), Marley Rose (Melissa Benoist), Jake Puckerman (Jacob Artist), Kitty Wilde (Becca Tobin) and Ryder Lynn (Blake Jenner), Principal Figgins (Iqbal Theba), cheerleader Becky Jackson (Lauren Potter), NYADA junior Brody Weston (Dean Geyer), local television news anchors Rod Remington (Bill A. Jones) and Andrea Carmichael (Earlene Davis), and Hunter Clarington (Nolan Gerard Funk), captain of the Dalton Academy Warblers. Amber Riley's character, Mercedes Jones, also does a cameo, in a testimony video where she tells how Sam was good to her.
Seven of the songs from the episode are being released as six singles: Natalie Imbruglia's cover of Ednaswap's "Torn" performed by Michele; A Great Big World's "This Is the New Year" performed by New Directions, Christina Perri's "A Thousand Years" performed by Benoist and Artist; Ne-Yo's "Let Me Love You (Until You Learn to Love Yourself)"; Sara Bareilles's "Love Song" performed by Michele, Agron and Naya Rivera; and a mashup of The J. Geils Band's "Centerfold" and Nelly's "Hot in Herre" as one single, performed by Artist, Chord Overstreet, Jenner and Becca Tobin.


== Reception ==


=== Ratings ===
The episode was watched by 5.58 million American viewers, and garnered a 2.1/6 rating/share among adults 18–49. The show placed fourth in its timeslot behind Person of Interest, Grey's Anatomy, and a one-hour broadcast of The Office. This episode was down significantly from the previous episode "Sadie Hawkins," which was watched by 6.79 million viewers.


=== Critical response ===
The episode garnered mixed to positive reviews from critics. Lauren Hoffman of Vulture said regarding Rachel's topless scene that her getting cold feet was "okay. [But] I wish Glee had done a bit more to show that it would've been okay if she’d gone through with the topless shoot. I know that’s dangerous territory, but it’s territory Glee will need to figure out how to tread if it’s going to be a show about college kids for high-school kids." Laurel Brown of Zap2it said, "It's really too bad that only one female newsreader realizes the insanity of it all. But if everybody realized the insanity, there would be no more Glee." She complimented the Marley and Jake subplot, dubbing it "one of the sweetest storylines ever to be seen on Glee... The sweetness culminates in Jake writing that he loves Marley on one of the calendars. Her "I love you back" is just about enough to make you cry with loving happiness."
Many critics highlighted the scene with Quinn and Santana. Ryan Gajewski of Wetpaint wrote, "Frankly, the idea of Quinn and Santana acting as the angel on Rachel’s shoulder was hilarious and awesome, and the three of them performing “Love Song” was magical." Josee Rose of The Wall Street Journal applauded Quinn and Santana's return in the episode, "It’s nice to hear Quinn and Santana again, there definitely isn't enough of them this season. And they also set it up for Santana to move to the Big Apple." Daniel Sperling of Digital Spy assessed, "There's no denying that most of the semi-nudity is gratuitous, and initially Glee tries to offset this by overloading the episode with ideas." Sperling noted, "it's when 'Naked' quits being superficial and peers a little deeper that it starts to perk up." He also complimented Quinn and Santana's appearance, "Their brief cameo works wonders."
Rae Votta from Billboard gave the episode a positive review, "Glee stripped down this week in an episode that highlighted nakedness (physical and emotional) of its characters, plus provided fans with the utter eye candy of shirtless dudes in crazy costumes, a landscape of equal parts nostalgia and current pop hits, and realistic storylines that didn't make the viewer want to tear out his or her hair. There's not much to dislike about Glee right now." MaryAnn Sleasman of TV.com said "In a season that's been plagued by uneven quality, "Naked" ended up being pleasantly enjoyable.." Lesley Goldberg of The Hollywood Reporter wrote that the cover of "This is the New Year" by A Great Big World was "one of the most dynamic and appropriate songs the show has covered of late (if ever). It's filled with cute moments from Sam and Blaine and from Sam and Artie and one tremendously funny eye-roll from Kitty."


== References ==


== External links ==

"Naked" at Fox.com
"Naked" at IMDb

Bob Cranky's Adieu  (On going with the Volunteer Association from Gateshead to Newcastle, on permanent Duty) is a Geordie folk song written in the 19th century by John "Jack" Shield, in a style deriving from music hall.


== Lyrics ==
The Blue Stone o' the Brig (a dialect word for Bridge) is now only a nominal boundary. It was originally a stone to mark the southern boundary of the town and county of Newcastle. Beyond it was Gateshead, which was include in the ”county and liberty of Durham". It was at this point where the "marching guinea" was paid. 
The birthday of King George III fell on Saturday, 4 June, and on 6 and 7 June 1808 it was celebrated in grand style on Tyneside. It was estimated that more than 5,000 men took part, some from regular regiments and many more came from the local militia, some from villages many miles away. 
The troops marched through the streets, paraded on The Town Moor, and the following day marched to Throckley Fell.
The Gateshead Volunteers were one of the groups of local militia. They were being placed on three weeks "permanent duty" to guard the town "against an attack from Napoleon and the French“ and had marched into Newcastle on Sunday 5 June. 
The song, based on a single incident was very popular at the time. But as history moves on, the incident becomes trivial, and the song becomes one of the many forgotten ones.
The lyrics are as follows:-
BOB CRANKY'S ADIEU
Air unknown
On going with the Volunteer Association from Gateshead to Newcastle, on permanent Duty


== Comments on variations to the above version ==
NOTE – 
In the early 19th century, as today, there were cheap books and magazines.
Many of these “chapbooks" were on poor quality paper to a poor standard and with poor quality print. The works were copied with no thoughts of copyright, and the work required very little proof-reading, and what was done was not required to a high standard. Consequently, the dialect words of songs varied between editions.
As this was a very popular song, it appeared in numerous editions. The many versions published show considerable, some very minor, variations, mainly in the spelling of the words, and sometimes variations within the same edition. Some of the most common are listed below :-
Generally
an, and
aw'l and aw'll
baccy and backy
becrike and belike
binny and hinny
Blue Styen of the Brig to blue stane o' the brig – various changes between these two including use of capital letters
breer and breet
come'ly and comely
een and e'en
every and ivery
farewheel and fare-weel
folks's, foulk's and foulks's
forc'd and fourc'd
gane and gyen
gill and jill
ginny and guinea
goon and gown
ha'e and hev
hoose and house
Is'bel Mackey and Isbel Macky
langsome and lonesome
lood and loud
ma, maw and my
marchin', marchin' and marching
meesl and mysel'
mine and thy
ods and odds
oot and out
sairgent's, sairjeant's and sairjent's
sall and shall
sougerin' soujerin', sowgerin' and sowjerin' (with and without apostrophe or "g" at the end)
swagg'rin' and swagg'ring
take and tyek
thee and thy
think'st and thinks't
thoo and thou
varra, verra and very
wad and will
warse and waurse
whuslin' and wusslin'
yammerin' and yammering


== Recordings ==
To follow


== See also ==
Geordie dialect words


== References ==


== External links ==
Farne Folk Archive North East – Chapbook from 1812
Rhymes of Northern Bards – Bell 1812
A collection of songs 1819
The Monthly Chronicle of North Country lore and legends with engravings – 1889

French protectorate may refer to:

The French protectorate of Cambodia
The French protectorate of Laos
The French protectorate in Morocco
The French protectorate of Tunisia
The Annam (French protectorate)
The Tonkin (French protectorate)
The Malagasy Protectorate
The Saar Protectorate

Mohammad Abid Ali Khan Akbar (born 22 July 1990) is a Pakistani tennis player. He has a career-high ATP singles ranking of No. 1,368 achieved on 3 October 2016 and a doubles ranking of No. 1,484 achieved on 18 May 2026. 
Abid received his education from the University of Idaho.
He has won one professional ITF doubles tournament in 2026 in Islamabad, and two national titles in singles and eight in doubles. He is currently studying at the University of Reno.


== ATP Challenger and ITF Tour finals ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Abid Ali Akbar at the Association of Tennis Professionals
Abid Ali Akbar at the International Tennis Federation

Çukurova Basketbol Mersin (ÇBK Mersin), for sponsorship reasons ÇİMSA ÇBK Mersin, is a Turkish professional women's basketball club based in Mersin, Turkey. The club was founded in 2015 and currently competing in the Women's Basketball Super League.


== History ==
The club was founded in 2015 under the name Çukurova Basketbol Mersin. In 2020 the team was rebranded to ÇBK Mersin. They joined the Super League for the 2017–18 season. Grine had left the league prior to the beginning of the 2017 season. After competing in the play-off semi finals in their first season, the club played in the play-off finals against Fenerbahçe in the 2018–19 season. The club lost to Fenerbahçe in the finals, but qualified to compete in EuroLeague Women in the 2019–20 season.
On January 22, 2020, a partnership was established with the Yenişehir Municipality, and the club's name was changed to ÇBK Mersin Yenişehir Belediyesi. This partnership played a significant role in the club's rise.
Before the 2023-24 season, the name was changed to Çukurova Basketbol Kulübü Mersin (shortly Ç.B.K. Mersin). In late January 2025, as a result of the sponsorship agreement with ÇİMSA, the team's name became ÇİMSA ÇBK Mersin.
In the 2025–26 season, they achieved to win their first EuroCup title in history by defeating Greek side Athinaikos Qualco 160–157 in the finals.


== Current roster ==


== Gallery ==


== Honours ==


=== European competitions ===
EuroLeague Women
Runners-up (2): 2022–23, 2024–25
EuroCup Women
Winners (1): 2025–26
Fourth-place: 2021–22
Quarterfinalists: 2018–19


=== Domestic competitions ===
 Turkish Super League
Runners-up (5): 2018–19, 2021–22, 2022–23, 2023–24, 2024–25
Semifinalists: 2017–18
 Turkish Cup
Winners (2): 2022, 2025
Runners-up: 2024
 Turkish Women's Basketball Presidential Cup
Winners (1): 2022
Runners-up (3): 2019, 2024, 2025


== Notable players ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website (in Turkish)
Official Team Instagram
Turkish Basketball Federation (in Turkish)
Eurobasket team page

The 1967 season was the 8th season for the San Diego Chargers as a professional AFL franchise; the team improved on their 7–6–1 record in 1966 and finishing at 8–5–1. It was the team's first season at San Diego Stadium. The Chargers finished in third place in the AFL West Division with a record of 8–5–1.


== NFL / AFL draft ==


== Roster ==


== Preseason ==


== Regular season ==


=== Schedule ===
*Played at San Diego Stadium due to Fenway Park being used by the Boston Red Sox for the 1967 World Series.


=== Game summaries ===


==== Week 2: vs. Boston Patriots ====


==== Week 4: vs. Houston Oilers ====


==== Week 5: at Buffalo Bills ====


==== Week 6: vs. Boston ====


==== Week 7: vs. Kansas City Chiefs ====


==== Week 8: at Denver Broncos ====


==== Week 9: at Oakland Raiders ====


==== Week 11: vs. Miami Dolphins ====


==== Week 12: at Kansas City Chiefs ====


==== Week 13: vs. Denver Broncos ====


==== Week 14: vs. Oakland Raiders ====


==== Week 15: at Miami Dolphins ====


==== Week 16: at Houston Oilers ====


==== Week 17: vs. New York Jets ====

The Chargers recorded their first-ever home loss to the Jets.


=== Standings ===

Note: Tie games were not officially counted in the standings in the AFL.


== Awards ==
Ten Chargers were in the West team for the AFL All-Star game, while three were named to the Associated Press All-AFL first team and one to the second team. Also, Post won the AP AFL Offensive Rookie of the Year award with 17 of the 27 votes, while Hadl and Gillman received votes for Player of the Year and Coach of the Year respectively.


== References ==

Ben Settle,  better known by the stage name Ed Rush, is an English musician and DJ who produces drum and bass music. Rush has been releasing records since 1992 primarily with Optical (Matt Quinn), his musical partner since 1997. Along with Optical, he is also the co-founder of the record label Virus Recordings, which releases his records along with other drum and bass acts. He is most associated with the aggressive styles of drum and bass music known as techstep, darkcore and neurofunk.


== Early career ==
Rush's first releases were a pair of self-released white label 12" singles, the Prince Jammy-sampling "I Wanna Stay in the Jungle" and "Look What They've Done" in late 1992. In early 1993, Rush begun playing on the London pirate radio station Don FM, where he was to first meet future production partner DJ Trace, resulting in the duo releasing the track "Don Bad Man", produced by engineer Nico Sykes. Shortly after, Rush recorded "Bludclot Artattack", which was released on Sykes' No U Turn Records. This release helped to influence the rave scene away from hardcore and into drum and bass. Rush's work grew increasingly uncompromising and dark: writing in the book Energy Flash: a Journey Through Rave Music and Dance Culture, Simon Reynolds wrote "Ed Rush's No U-Turn tracks 'Gangsta Hardstep' and 'Guncheck' took the explosive energy of hardcore and imploded it, transforming febrile hyperkinesis into molasses thick malaise."
As notoriety grew, Rush continued to collaborate, such as on "The Mutant" with DJ Trace in 1995. Additional releases on Grooverider's Prototype label and Goldie's Metalheadz further helped to establish Rush's reputation as a prominent drum and bass artist. In 1996, Rush and Trace coined the dense, hard style of jungle they were working on as "techstep" which went on to become the dominant style of drum and bass in the late 1990s. Rush's work with Trace and Nico on No U-Turn Records was compiled on the album Torque in 1997.
Together with Audio he forms the duo Killbox.


== Collaboration with Optical ==
In 1995 Rush met Matt Quinn, who worked under the stage name Optical. They met at the Music House, a dubplate mastering company in Islington, London where dubplates would be made for their DJ sets. Rob Playford, owner of the label Moving Shadow, gave them space in his Soho office building to allow them to build their own studio. They released their debut single Funktion in 1997, and followed it up in 1998 with their debut album, Wormhole, which has been described as the greatest drum and bass album of all time and introduced the style of drum and bass now known as Neurofunk. In 2000, DJ Craze used their track "Watermelon" in his beat-juggling routine, helping him win his 3rd DMC World Championship. In 2000, they released their second album, The Creeps (Invisible And Deadly!), which broadened their palette by introducing vocals to the mix Their third album, The Original Doctor Shade was released in 2003 and featured a collaboration with turntablist DJs, Scratch Perverts. In 2005, they took part in the 40 Artists, 40 Days project organised by the Tate Gallery in the run up to London's successful bid to win the right to host the 2012 Olympics and Paralympics. 2006 saw the release of their fourth album Chameleon which saw them using a live band for the first time and three years later followed with Travel the Galaxy. Their track Frontline was use in the soundtrack to the 2008 video game Wipeout HD. In 2014, Ministry of Sound described them as one of the most influential artists in drum and bass.
Their most recent album, No Cure, was released in October 2015. The same year also saw the release of their first headline mix featured as part of the long running Fabriclive series of mix CDs, FabricLive.82. They had a long relationship with the London club Fabric having played at the opening weekend in 1999 and appearing on the first drum and bass mix released by Fabric in 2002 (FabricLive.06 mixed by Grooverider). Following Islington Council's decision to revoke Fabric's licence in September 2016, Ed Rush & Optical took part in a benefit show to challenge the decision. In November 2016 agreement was reached to reopen the club.
In addition to many club appearances, Rush and Optical have appeared at festivals, including Glastonbury in 1999 and 2014, and Bestival in 2013.
They have also collaborated and remixed several other artists including: Goldie, Skunk Anansie,Lil' Louis (French Kiss) and Rudimental featuring John Newman (Not Giving In). They themselves have been remixed by other artists such as Pendulum, who remixed their track Bacteria in 2004.
As well as his work with Optical, Rush has also released house music under the name Ben Dylan.
Ed Rush is a play on the phrase "head rush", which was slang in the rave scene for a temporary whiteout caused by too many Es.


== Discography ==


=== Solo discography ===
Albums
Torque No U-Turn (1997) with Trace and Nico
Light Of The Void Blackout Music (2024)
Singles
I Wanna Stay In The Jungle (1992)
Look What They've Done (1992)
Bludclott Artattack  No U-Turn (1993)
Don Bad Man Lucky Spin Recordings (1993)
Selecta Jet Star Records (1994)
The Force Is Electric / Gangsta Hardstep No U-Turn (1995)
Guncheck No U-Turn (1995)
Westside Sax / August No U-Turn (1995)
Baracuda Part 1 Deejay Recordings (1996)
Technology / Neutron No U-Turn (1996)
Killamanjaro / Subway Prototype (1996)
Mad Different Methods Nu Black (1996)
Mothership No-U-Turn (1996)
What's Up / August (Remix) No U-Turn (1996)
Sector 3 / Comatone (Nutcut) No U-Turn (1996)
Skylab / Density / The Raven Metalheadz (1996)
Sector 3 / Coma Tone No U-Turn (1996)
Cutslo (Lokuste Remix) / Alien Girl Prototype (1998)
Kinetic / Tenshi Space Recordings (2005)
Edtrafiencial No U-Turn (2009) with Trace, Fierce, Nico and Optical
Book Of Sight / Arcadia Virus Recordings (2010)
Dark Days / Lost In Tha Game AudioPorn Records (2011)
Pheromone (2013)
Scarabs / Box Car Piranha Pool (2014)


=== With Ed Rush & Optical ===
Albums
Wormhole Virus Recordings (1998)
The Creeps (Invisible And Deadly!) Virus Recordings (2000)
The Original Doctor Shade Virus Recordings (2003)
Chameleon Virus Recordings (2006)
Travel the Galaxy Virus Recordings (2009)
No Cure Virus Recordings (2015)
Singles
Funktion / Naked Lunch V Recordings (1997)
Lifespan / Crisis Virus Recordings (1998)
Medicine / Life Crisis Virus Recordings (1998)
The Medicine / Punchbag Virus Recordings (1998)
Wormhole Album Sampler Virus Recordings (1998)
Zardoz / Satellites Virus Recordings (1998)
Bacteria / Gasmask Virus Recordings (1999)
Watermelon / Sick Note Virus Recordings (1999)
Socom EP Virus Recordings (2000)
KerbKrawler / Capsule Virus Recordings (2001)
Pod Virus Recordings in (2001)
Pacman (Ram Trilogy Remix) / Vessel Virus Recordings (2002)
Innocence / Rehab Quarantine Recordings (2002)
Remixes Vol. 1 Virus Recordings (2004) (UK #77)
The Remixes Vol. 2 Virus Recordings (2004) (UK #69)
Reece / Sick Note (Illskills Remix) Virus Recordings (2005)
Reece / Taxi Driver Virus Recordings (2005)
Crack Ball / Ride The Beast RUN DNB (2010)
Brain Bucket / Falling Through Vision Recordings (2010)
DJ Mixes
Out of the Box (2004)
Virus Vaults (2005)
FabricLive.82 Fabric Recordings (2015)


== References ==


== External links ==
Ed Rush discography at Discogs
Ed Rush at AllMusic

Lake Żarnowiec is located in the Pomorze Voivodeship. It is 7.6 km (4.7 mi) long, 2.6 km (1.6 mi) wide and has a depth of 16 m (52 ft). The river Piaśnica cuts through it. The Żarnowiec Nuclear Power Plant was supposed to be built next to it. It now serves as the lower reservoir for the Żarnowiec Pumped Storage Power Station.


== References ==

Balaka may refer to:

Balaka (Bengali poetry), by Rabindranath Tagore
Balaka District in Southern Region, Malawi
Balaka Township, Malawi, a city in the aforementioned district
Balaka (plant), a genus of palm trees
Biman Bangladesh Airlines
Balaka Cineworld, a movie theater in Bangladesh


== See also ==
Balaks (disambiguation)
Anti-balaka, an alliance of militia groups based in the Central African Republic

Sydel Finfer Silverman Wolf (May 20, 1933 – March 25, 2019) was an American anthropologist notable for her work as a researcher, writer, and advocate for the archival preservation of anthropological research. Silverman's early research focused on the study of complex societies and the history of anthropology. This work involved conducting anthropological research in Central Italy, with a focus on traditional agrarian systems, land reform, and festivals in central Italy. She later became active as an administrator, advocating for the study of cultural anthropology and an important force within the community where she organized discussions and symposia around the topic of preserving the anthropological records.


== Early life and education ==
Silverman was born in the Lawndale neighborhood on the west side of Chicago, Illinois, to Joseph Finfer, a rabbi and kosher shohet butcher, and Elizabeth Finfer (née Bassman), a cook. The youngest of seven children, her family was Orthodox Jewish and was very poor. Her parents came from Lithuania when they were adults.
Silverman's interest in anthropology began at an early age, thanks in part to her uncle Hirshel Bassman. With her uncle, Silverman explored ideas such as mysticism and "oriental religions."
In 1951, Silverman graduated from high school and began her studies at the University of Illinois at Navy Pier as a pre-med student. After two years, she applied to the University of Chicago's program in Committee on Human Development, and began studies at the University of Chicago in biology, psychology, and sociology-anthropology. In 1957, Silverman received a master's degree from the Committee on Human Development. Her thesis, The Female Climacterium was published the same year.
In 1957, Silverman enrolled at the PhD program in Anthropology at Columbia University. Conrad Arensberg's work in the Mediterranean, as well as a personal interest in the region, led Silverman to select Italy as the focus of her dissertation research.


== Career ==


=== Early career ===
Silverman's dissertation research was focused in the Italian village of Montecastello di Vibio. Her work in this region began in August 1960. Her work was one of the initial social-anthropological studies of  Central Italy, describing the mezzadria, the traditional agrarian system of the region. Shortly after Silverman's research, the mezzadria was abolished by law.
In 1963, Silverman received a PhD in anthropology from Columbia University for a  dissertation  Landlord and peasant in an Umbrian community,   subsequently used as the basis of her first book, Three bells of civilization: the life of an Italian hill town.  This early work remains one of Silverman's most-cited contributions in the academic community.  Silverman's dissertation research was also the foundation of several additional journal articles.
Some of Silverman's photography from this period, (specifically 1960–1961), including photographs by her late husband Melvin Silverman can be viewed online.


=== Teaching ===
After completing her PhD, Silverman worked as a teacher by Queens College in New York City from 1962 to 1975, while continuing  her research in Italy. Her research included a 1967 study of land reform in the South of Italy, and several field seasons in Central Italy focused on a comparative study of competitive regional festivals.  From this time, Silverman's publications on Palio of Siena are the most noteworthy. At Queens College  Silverman began her career as an administrator when she was elected as department chair in 1970.


=== Administration ===
(1975–1986)
From 1975 to 1986 Silverman was the executive officer of the CUNY Graduate Center  PhD Program in Anthropology.  Under her leadership, the program rose from disorganization and threat of disbandment to  one of the top ten anthropology doctoral programs in the United States of America. For a time, Silverman was also the acting Dean of Graduate Studies at CUNY.
Silverman moved to the Wenner-Gren Foundation in 1987, where she was appointed president of the foundation, serving from 1987 to 1999. She was spokesperson for the organization, advocating for the field of anthropology as well as overseeing administrative tasks including fellowship and grant funding.  Silverman organized twenty-five international symposia during her years at Wenner-Gren.  These symposia became the topic of her 2002 book, The Beast on the Table which offers a rich narrative concerning the living history of anthropology.
Outside of her fieldwork, advocacy, and administrative work, Silverman's other major research interest has been on anthropology itself—particularly the history of anthropology and the practice of anthropology.  In addition to what has already been discussed, Silverman's work at Wenner-Gren included an effort to preserve anthropological records.
Silverman's  selected bibliography is included below, and more detailed descriptions of a number of her books has been provided by archivist Christy Fic in the Register to the Papers of Sydel Silverman.  Silverman's work in this area has spanned the course of her long career, and continued into her retirement in 1999.
Silverman was President Emerita of the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research and Professor Emerita of Anthropology at the City University of New York.


== Personal life ==
In December 1953, Silverman married the painter Mel Silverman, who died in 1966. In 1972 she married anthropologist Eric Wolf, who died in 1999.
In addition to two stepchildren from Wolf's first marriage, the couple had two children, Eve Silverman and film producer, Julie Yorn.
Silverman died on March 25, 2019, in New York City.


== Selected works and publications ==
Monographs
Silverman, Sydel (1975). Three bells of civilization : the life of an Italian hill town. New York: Columbia University Press. ISBN 0231038046.
Silverman, Sydel (1981). Totems and teachers : perspectives on the history of anthropology. New York: Columbia Univ.Pr. ISBN 0231050860.
Wolf, Eric R. Wolf with Sydel Silverman; foreword by Aram A. Yengoyan (2001). Pathways of Power Building an Anthropology of the Modern World. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 9780520924871.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
Silverman, Sydel (2002). The beast on the table : conferencing with anthropologists. Walnut Creek, CA: AltaMira Press. ISBN 0759102392.
Silverman, Sydel (2003). Totems and teachers : key figures in the history of anthropology (2. ed.). Walnut Creek, CA: AltaMira Press. ISBN 075910459X.
Silverman, Sydel & Susan McKinnon (2005). Complexities : beyond nature & nurture. Chicago, Ill.: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 0226500233.
Barth, Fredrik, Andre Gingrich, Robert Parkin, and Sydel Silverman (2005). One discipline, four ways British, German, French, and American anthropology ([Online-Ausg.]. ed.). Chicago: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 9780226038292.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
Cherneff, Jill & Eve Hochwald; foreword by Sydel Silverman (2006). Visionary observers : anthropological inquiry and education. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press. ISBN 080326464X.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)
Ruwell, Mary Elizabeth (1995). Silverman, Sydel and Nancy J. Parezo (ed.). Preserving the Anthropological Record: The National Anthropological Archives (PDF). Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, Inc.


== References ==


== External links ==
Sydel Silverman papers, 1939–2010, bulk 1949–2010 at the National Anthropological Archives of the Smithsonian Institution

The Japanese night heron (Gorsachius goisagi) is a species of night heron found in East Asia. It breeds in Japan, and winters in the Philippines and Indonesia. It is also seen in the spring and summer in Korea and the Russian Far East.
The Japanese night heron prefers dense, damp forest, in both its breeding and winter ranges. Common until the 1970s, this species is threatened by deforestation in its summer and winter ranges for timber and farmland. Other documented threats include the introduction of the Siberian weasel (Mustela sibirica) in its breeding range and nest predation by crows, due to the increasing crow populations. The current population is estimated at less than 1,000 mature individuals. Accordingly, the Japanese night heron is marked as a protected species in Japan and Hong Kong.
Future actions proposed to conserve this species include surveying its breeding habits throughout Japan and the Philippines, protecting its habitat, creating more public interest and awareness in the bird, and stopping invasive species from competing with it.


== Taxonomy ==
The Japanese night heron was formally described in 1835 by Dutch zoologist Coenraad Jacob Temminck under the binomial name Nycticorax goisagri. He specified the type locality as Japan. The species is now placed together with the Malayan night heron in the genus Gorsachius that was introduced in 1855 by the French naturalist Charles Lucien Bonaparte. The genus name is based on the specific epithet, goisagi, which comes from the Japanese word goi-sagi for the black-crowned night heron.


== Description ==
The Japanese night heron's wingspan ranges between 43 and 47 centimeters, and the colors of the plumage vary between adult and juvenile herons. In adult herons, the head and neck feathers are russet in color and the wings' feathers are dark-brown in color. In juvenile herons, the feathers on the head are more black in color than russet, while the feathers on the wings are lighter in color than those of the adult. Both juvenile and adult herons share a wide beak and yellow skin on the outer layer of their eyes. A unique feature of the Japanese night heron is the dense, black lines that irregularly go down the covert feathers of its wings.


== Distribution and habitat ==
The Japanese night heron typically inhabits dense, coniferous and broad-leaved forests on hills and low mountains in close proximity to bodies of water, i.e. rivers and streams. This habitat seems to be consistent between the breeding and non-breeding ranges. Generally, the altitudinal range of the Japanese night heron is between 50 and 240 meters. However, it has been reported at heights above 1,000 meters in Japan, where the habitat is scarce, and the Philippines. During the winter, the heron shelters in dark and deeply shaded forests, which are near water and can be as elevated as 2,400 meters.


=== Migration ===
The Japanese night heron is usually found in the Philippines during the winter, but it can also be found in other East Asian countries like Korea, southern China, Taiwan, and Russia. It arrives at its breeding grounds in Japan between March and June, and it leaves between September and November for the Philippines. The Japanese night heron tends to migrate in a mixed flock of more than 1,000 other herons, including the black-crowned night heron. The Japanese night heron is a highly migratory species and has some dispersal tendencies. During its migration, it has been reported to sometimes overshoot its destination, the Philippines, and arrive at Indonesia and Palau instead.


== Behaviour and ecology ==


=== Food and feeding ===
The Japanese night heron feeds at dusk, solitarily or in small groups, rarely in the open. Its diet consists of soil animals on the forest floor, i.e. earthworms, snails, and small insects. The heron has been known to use its thick beak to dig earthworms and land snails out of the ground. The heron seems to selectively feed on more mature snails in order to avoid accidentally digesting the softer shells of immature snails. Although most of its nutrition comes from the forest floor, the heron hunts crustaceans and small fish in shallow water along the shorelines of swamps and rice paddies.


=== Breeding ===
There has only been one report of the Japanese night heron breeding in Taiwan. Normally, it breeds in Japan from May to July, depending on when it arrives at the breeding grounds. The heron nests up to 20 meters high in tall trees, such as cedar, cypress, and oak trees. It does so alone, rarely in close proximity to another heron for 17 to 20 days. The flimsy nests are made out of sticks stacked on top of each other with an abundance of leaves, laid horizontally on a branch. Eggs are laid from 3 to 5 per breeding season. The chicks do not hatch on the same day, because incubation starts for each egg when it is laid. When the chicks have been hatched for three days, the parents leave for periods that range from 7 to 9 hours to feed the chicks. After 20 days, the parents return once or twice a day, gradually returning more frequently until the newly hatched herons leave the nest after 35 to 37 days.


== Threats ==
The largest danger to the Japanese night heron is the deforestation of rural, lowland forests. Unchecked farmland development has particularly affected the heron's breeding and feeding ranges, adversely affecting its usual nesting habits. In addition, the night heron's nests fall within the predatory niche of the rapidly increasing crow population in the area. Since 1901, when Siberian weasels were introduced to Hokkaido, the Japanese night heron has also faced both competition and predation from Siberian weasels, which are active hunters of the fish and insects that the heron preys on. As a result, the Japanese night heron has seen a dramatic decline in the wild.


== Conservation ==
The Japanese night heron is very rare, because of its restricted breeding area. The population of the heron has decreased down to a few thousand within the last decade. For this reason, the Japanese night heron is legally protected by Japanese and Hong Kong Laws, and many programs have been proposed to counteract/steady the decline and create a revitalization of the species. The conservation acts propose public awareness, further study of the heron's home range within the seasons of breeding and inactivity, and control the sale of specimens. The control and inhibition of invasive species that impact the heron are also being addressed.


== See also ==
Night heron
List of birds of Japan


== References ==

Sparrmannia flavofasciata is a species of beetle of the family Scarabaeidae. It is found in South Africa (Lesotho, Free State, Eastern Cape).


== Description ==
Adults reach a length of about 16–18 mm. They have a black head and pronotum. The latter is densely pilose. The elytra are black at the basal and apical one-third, with a medially transverse yellowish-brown band. The suture is black.


== References ==

The 2023 NCAA Division I Women's Golf Championship was contested May 19–24 at Grayhawk Golf Club in Scottsdale, Arizona. It was the 41st annual tournament to establish the national champions of the 2023 season in NCAA Division I women's collegiate golf. The tournament was hosted by the Arizona State University & The Thunderbirds. There are both team and individual championships.
It was the third consecutive year that the men's and women's Division I golf tournaments were played at the same location; the 2023 NCAA Division I Men's Golf Championship will be held in Scottsdale after the women's championship from May 26–31.


== Regional qualifying tournaments ==
There were six regional sites that held the qualifying tournaments across the United States from May 8–10, 2023.
The five lowest scoring teams from each of the regional sites qualified to compete at the national championships as team and individual players.
An additional individual with the lowest score in their regional, whose teams did not qualify, qualified to compete for the individual title in the national championship.

^ Teams listed in qualifying order.


== Venue ==
This was the third time the NCAA Division I Women's Golf Championship was held at Grayhawk Golf Club and the fourth time the tournament has been hosted by the Arizona State University.


== Format ==
Similar to 2015 NCAA Division I Women's Golf Championship, all teams competed for three days (54 holes) on a stroke-play basis from Friday until Sunday. On Monday, the lowest scoring player was awarded as the national champion for the individual title at the conclusion of the 72 holes stroke-play event. At the same time, the lowest scoring eight teams advanced to the match-play team event. The quarterfinals and semifinals of match-play event will be played on Tuesday, May 23 and the finals will be played on Wednesday, May 24.


== Team competition ==


=== Leaderboard ===
(Par: 288, Total: 1152)

Eliminated teams: San Jose State (882), Baylor (883), Michigan State (885), Duke (885), TCU (886), Texas Tech (890), Northwestern (892), Oregon State (892), Clemson (893), Virginia (893), Augusta (896), Vanderbilt (897), Ole Miss (898), Tulsa (914), NC State (917)

The top 15 teams after 54 holes proceeded to the final round.


=== Match-play bracket ===
The eight teams with the lowest stroke play total advanced into the match-play event.

Sources:


== Individual competition ==
May 22, 2023 (Par:72, Total: 288)

The remaining 88 players from the top 15 teams and the top 9 individuals outside of those teams competed for the individual championship title after the 54-hole cut.


== References ==

James Benton Flippen (July 18, 1920 – June 28, 2011) was an American old-time fiddler from Mount Airy, North Carolina. He was one of the last surviving members of a generation of performers born in the early 20th century playing in the Round Peak style centering on Surry County, North Carolina. His contemporaries included Tommy Jarrell, Fred Cockerham, Kyle Creed, and Earnest East.
Flippen learned to play old-time music early in life from his father, uncles, and brothers. He composed several original tunes and performed with the Camp Creek Boys and the Smokey Valley Boys.
Flippen was a recipient of the North Carolina Folk Heritage Award in 1990.


== Early life and career ==

Flippen was raised on a farm in Surry County, North Carolina, where he first played the banjo during his childhood. His father was an accomplished old time banjo picker, as were his uncles and brothers. During his youth he visited his fiddling uncle John Flippen, quickly turned to playing the fiddle and started playing with the area's noted bands and musicians, among them the Green Valley Boys led by Glenn McPeak, with Esker Hutchins and Leak Caudill. Esker became an important influence on Flippen's fiddling style, which included a heavy bow shuffle and bluesy notation.
In the late 1960s he was asked to fiddle with the Camp Creek Boys, after Fred Cockerham's departure. From the 1970s on, Flippen belonged to the Smokey Valley Boys, an outfit that preserved Flippen's unique musical abilities on recordings. The band also earned awards at numerous fiddling competitions, before disbanding in 1985. In 1990, the North Carolina Folk Heritage Awards honored Flippen, who was recognized for a unique style of string fingering. Flippen was also renowned for his original compositions, which include "Benton's Dream," "Fiddler's Reel," "Sally in the Turnip Patch," and "Smokey Valley Breakdown."
During his career, Flippen took first place numerous times in fiddle and band contests. He won seven times at the Old Fiddler's Convention in Galax, Virginia; three times at the Union Grove Old Time Fiddlers' Convention; and at the Mount Airy Fiddlers Convention, among many others. He also played at the Newport Folk Festival, the 1982 World's Fair in Knoxville, Tennessee, the Festival of American Fiddle Tunes, the Smithsonian Institution, the Library of Congress, the Appalachian String Band Music Festival in Clifftop, Fayette County, West Virginia, and many more highly esteemed venues. In 2008, at the age of 88, he headlined the Berkeley Old Time Music Convention in California.
In the late 1990s Flippen reorganized his Smokey Valley Boys with new and previous members. The later lineup of his band often included Frank Bode singing and playing guitar, William Flippen (Benton's grandson) on guitar, Kevin Fore playing banjo, Verlin Clifton on mandolin, and Andy Edmonds playing banjo and guitar.


== Style and technique ==
Flippen gained popularity among the old-time music community for his unique approach to fiddling. Having rather large hands, he discovered the best way to get around the neck was to slide his index and middle fingers, rather than fingering up and down the scale with all four fingers as most people do — including his mentor, Esker Hutchins. On some tunes, he slid up the neck with one finger as he nearly simultaneously slid down with another. Where most fiddlers make a "D" chord on the neck with the index and ring finger, Flippen did it with index and middle finger. His bowing was described as smooth and heavily shuffled, having been perfected over many years of playing for square dances. As Paul Brown describes in the liner notes to Old Time, New Times, "It cries the blues, shouts a spiritual message, resounds with the celebration of a square dance or house party. It's full of syncopation and stretch, yet solidly down-to-earth."
Flippen also had a unique two-finger banjo style. He said he found it difficult to play clawhammer banjo, and though he liked hearing it, the three-finger bluegrass style wasn't quite for him, so he came up with his own heavily syncopated two-finger picking style that combined drive and charm.


== Discography ==
1972 — The Smokey Valley Boys (Rounder Records)
1993 — Benton Flippen: Old Time, New Times (Rounder)
1997 — Smokey Valley Boys (Easterwood Recordings)
2004 — Beware of Dog (Heritage)
2005 — Fiddler's Dream (Music Maker)
2008 — An Evening at WPAQ, 1984 (5-String Productions)
2010 — 270 Haystack Rd. (Music Maker Relief Foundation)


== References ==


== External links ==
Benton Flippen page
Benton Flippen in World Music: The Rough Guide

Oarces is a monotypic genus in the orb-weaver spider family Araneidae. Its only species is Oarces reticulatus. O. reticulatus is native to Chile and Argentina.


== Taxonomy ==
The genus Oarces was first erected by Eugène Simon in 1879 with the type species Arkys reticulatus, first described by Nicolet in 1849, which Simon transferred to his new genus as Oarces reticulatus. Simon synonymized five other species which Nicolet had placed in Arkys with A. reticulatus.
Oarces is the sister genus of Gnolus. Gnolus and Oarces were transferred from the family Mimetidae to Araneidae in 2012.


== References ==

Platnick, N.I. & Shabad, M.U. (1993). A review of the pirate spiders (Aranae, Mimetidae) of Chile. American Museum Novitates 3074. Abstract - PDF (12Mb)

Alexis-Joseph Mazerolle (29 June 1826 – 29 May 1889) was a French painter.


== Life ==
Alexis-Joseph Mazerolle was born on 29 June 1826. His father, Jean-Baptiste, was a carpenter and his mother, Madeleine Vitry, was a laundress. He was their third child. He was admitted to the École des Arts et Métiers (School of Arts and Crafts), where he showed unusual ability in drawing. 
In 1843, at the age of 17, he was admitted to the  École des Beaux-Arts where he was a pupil of Marc-Charles-Gabriel Gleyre.
He also studied under Pierre Dupuis.
Mazerolle's first submission to the Salon was in 1857 with The Old Woman and the Two Servants.
He continued to be a regular exhibitor in the Salon for most of his life.
In 1857 he won a 3rd class medal for Chilperic and Fregigonde, and in 1859 won a "rappel" for Nero and Locusta Experimenting with Poisons upon a Slave. He won a second "rappel" in 1861.
Most of his paintings were of historical or mythological subjects.
In 1861 Mazerolle married Aglaé Hourdou. They had two sons.
He served in the National Guard during the Siege of Paris in 1870.
He was awarded the Legion of Honour in 1870.
In the early years of the French Third Republic Mazerolle created decorative tapestry designs for the Manufacture Nationale des Gobelins.
In 1880 President Jules Grévy made him an officer of the Legion of Honour when the new ceiling of the  Théâtre Français was inaugurated, for which he received much praise.
He died on 29 May 1889 from an attack of asthma, aged 62.


== Work in public collections ==

Mazerolle is perhaps best known for his painting of Nero Experimenting with Poison on a Slave, held by the Palais des Beaux-Arts de Lille.
He is also known for his ceiling paintings at the Comédie-Française and the Théâtre du Vaudeville in Paris, and for the Nine Muses and Six Geniuses for the Conservatoire de Paris.
Works in public collections include:

Petit Palais, Paris, Le triomphe de Bacchus
Bibliothèque-musée de la Comédie-Française, Paris, La France couronnant Molière, Corneille et Racine, esquisse du plafond
Palais Garnier, Paris, Le Café, Le Thé, La Pêche, La Pâtisserie, Les Glaces, Le Vin, Les Fruits, La Chasse (1873-1875), tapestries from the Manufacture des Gobelins for the rotunda of the Salon de Glacier
Conservatoire de Paris, stage set
Bourse de commerce de Paris, cupola
Grand theater of Angers, foyer ceiling
Palais des Beaux-Arts de Lille, Néron et Locuste essayant des poisons sur un esclave
Musée départemental de l'Oise, Beauvais, cartons pour tapisserie Le Vin, Le Thé, Les Fruits, Le Sommeil d'Holophène, Adam et Ève,  biblical frescoes from the villa Stoltz
La Piscine Museum, Roubaix, Éponine suppliant Vespasien
Musée Antoine Vivenel, Compiègne, Kiki Charlotte
Musée des Beaux-Arts de Rouen, L'Opium
Musée des Beaux-Arts de Strasbourg, portrait of his two sons Louis et Fernand
Musée Condé, Chantilly, Oise, four decorative panels, Vases de fleurs
Musée d'Angoulême, Angoulême
Théâtre de Baden-Baden, Germany, cupola of the room
Hermitage Museum, Saint Petersburg, Russia, tapestry La filleule des fées
Mildred Lane Kemper Art Museum, St. Louis, US, Les Agapes
National Fine Arts Museum, Buenos Aires, Argentina, Psyché à la source


== Notes ==


== Sources ==

Bendis (Ancient Greek: Βένδις) was a Thracian goddess associated with hunting and the moon. Worship of the goddess seems to have been introduced into Attica around 430 BC. In Athens, Bendis was identified with the goddess Artemis, but she had a separate temple at Piraeus, near the temple of Artemis, and was a distinct goddess.  She was a huntress, like Artemis, but was often accompanied by dancing satyrs and maenads, as represented on a fifth-century red-figure stemless cup at Verona.


== Etymology ==
The deity's name, Bendis, is thought to derive from a Proto-Indo-European stem *bʰendʰ-, meaning 'to bind, unite, combine'.


== Worship ==
By a decree of the Oracle of Dodona, which required the Athenians to grant land for a shrine or temple, her cult was introduced into Attica by immigrant Thracian residents, and, though Thracian and Athenian processions remained separate, both cult and festival became so popular that in Plato's time (c. 429–413 BC) its festivities were naturalized as an official ceremonial of the city-state, called the Bendideia (Βενδίδεια). Among the events were night-time torch-races on horseback, mentioned in Plato's Republic, 328:

"You haven't heard that there is to be a torchlight race this evening on horseback in honour of the Goddess?" "On horseback?" said I. "That is a new idea. Will they carry torches and pass them along to one another as they race with the horses, or how do you mean?" "That's the way of it," said Polemarchus, "and, besides, there is to be a night festival which will be worth seeing."

In Piraeus there was a temple of the goddess which was called the Bendidia / Bendideion (Βενδίδειον).
A red-figure skyphos, now at Tübingen University, of c. 440–430, seems to commemorate the arrival of the newly authorized cult: it shows Themis (representing traditional Athenian customs) and a booted and cloaked Bendis, who wears a Thracian fox-skin cap.

A small marble votive stele of Bendis, c. 400–375 BC, found at Piraeus, (pictured left) shows the goddess and her worshippers in bas-relief. The image shows that the Thracian goddess has been strongly influenced by Athenian conceptions of Artemis: Bendis wears a short chiton like Artemis, but with an Asiatic snug-sleeved undergarment. She is wrapped in an animal skin like Artemis and has a spear, but has a hooded Thracian mantle, fastened with a brooch. She wears high boots. In the fourth century BC terracotta figurine (pictured right) she is similarly attired and once carried a (wooden?) spear. 

 
Elsewhere in Greece, the cult of Bendis did not catch on.

Just as in all other respects the Athenians continue to be hospitable to things foreign, so also in their worship of the gods; for they welcomed so many of the foreign rites that they were ridiculed for it by comic writers; and among these were the Thracian and Phrygian rites. (Strabo, Geography (1st century AD), 10.3.18)

The "Phrygian rites" Strabo mentioned referred to the cult of Cybele that was also welcomed to Athens in the 5th century.


== Related deities ==
The Athenians may have blended the cult of Bendis with the equally Dionysiac Thracian revels of Kotys, mentioned by Aeschylus and other ancient writers. Archaic female cult figures unearthed in Thrace (modern-day Bulgaria) have also been identified with Bendis.
Bendida Peak on Trinity Peninsula in Antarctica is named after the goddess.


== References ==


== Sources ==
"Bendis", William Smith (ed.) Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology. 1. Boston: Little, Brown & Co., 1867.
"Bendis (Thracian goddess)", The Editors. Encyclopedia Britannica, 20 Jul. 1998. Accessed 24 January 2022.


== Further reading ==


== External links ==
"BENDIS - Thracian Goddess of the Moon & Hunting", Theoi Project, 2017. Accessed 24 January 2022.

ꞌAreꞌare is the name of a people from the south of the island of Malaita, which is part of the Solomon Islands. Their language is the ꞌAreꞌare language, part of the Austronesian language family. In 1999, there were an estimated 18,000 speakers, up from about 8-9,000 in the 1970s.


== History ==
Prior to colonisation and subsequent independence, the ꞌAreꞌare occupied a much larger geographical area encompassing parts of Guadalcanal and Makira, as well as Malaita. This included the northern part of Makira known as Arosi and the eastern part of Guadalcanal known today as Marau Sound. In the past they lived in hamlets in the mountainous hinterland, or on the banks of lagoons in the southwest or the Mara Masika Strait (separating Malaita and South Malaita islands), but during colonization many coastal villages were established.
Traditionally, they practiced subsistence agriculture of taro, yams, and sweet potatoes, raised pigs and practiced fishing. During colonization, they were encouraged to export copra and raise cattle on a small scale.


== Politics ==
The southern and northern zones differ in political organization, with the south led by hereditary chieftains, while the north follows the self-made big man structure common in Melanesia. Both the hereditary and non-hereditary leaders are known as aaraha.


== Culture ==
The traditional religion was ancestor worship, but during colonization, Christianity made big inroads, and by the mid-1970s, at least half of the population was converted. Bible portions were first translated in 1957. About half belong to the South Seas Evangelical Church, and half to either the Catholic Church or the Anglican Church of the Province of Melanesia. The former do not permit traditional music, which is seen as related to the ancestral spirits, deemed "devils."
The ꞌAreꞌare are known for their complex panpipe music, which ethnomusicologist Hugo Zemp studied.


== References ==


== External links ==
"preview of ꞌAreꞌare music". Archived from the original on 2012-01-23. Retrieved 2012-01-05. from Documentary Educational Resources (DER)

Colostethus lynchi is a species of frog in the family Dendrobatidae. It is endemic to Colombia.
The IUCN classifies this frog as data deficient. Scientists observed it 30 m above sea level in a forest, but they know little else about its habits. Scientists believe it is likely that this frog breeds in streams, like its congeners.


== References ==

Jojo's World (simplified Chinese: 我和我的四个男人; traditional Chinese: 我和我的四個男人; pinyin: wǒ hé wǒ de sì ge nán rén; literally "Me and My Four Men"), also known as When A Woman Chases A Man, is a 2017 Taiwanese television series created and produced by EBC. It stars Tia Lee, Jacob Hwang, Yen-j, Jason Hsu, Andy Wu and Sharon Hsu as the main cast. Filming commenced in June 2017 and ended on 2 October 2017. It was first broadcast on 5 August 2017 on TTV and airs every Saturday night from 10pm to 11.30pm.


== Cast ==


=== Main cast ===
Tia Lee 李毓芬 as Lin Chun-jiao 林春嬌 (Jojo)
Jacob Hwang 黃仁德 as Yi Sheng 易盛 (Louis)
Yen-j 嚴爵 as Tang Zai-qin 唐在勤
Jason Hsu 許孟哲 as  Li Bi-he 李必合
Andy Wu 吳岳擎 as Zhang Xiao-shuo 張曉碩
Sharon Hsu 許維恩 as Ding Shu-qi 丁書琪


=== Supporting cast ===
Lotus Wang 王彩樺 as Jiang Shu-fen 江淑芬
Ma Nien-hsien 馬念先 as Ma Ke-wang 馬可王
Michael Hsu 徐崧育 as Jiang Xin-xing 江心星
Ma Yun-ting 馬韻婷 as Xuan Xuan 宣宣
Huang Yu-ting 黃郁婷 as Vivi
Xiang Nai-er 香奈兒 as Song Hui-en 宋慧恩
Kenny Kuo 岱毅 as Xiao Wu 小伍
Yang Zhen 楊震 as Ah Pang 阿胖


=== Guest actors ===
Chen Bor-jeng 陳博正 as temple caretaker
Twinkling Ting 謝金晶 as Xie Jin Jing 謝金晶
Riva Chang 張可昀 as Zhang Ke Yun 張可昀
Chan Wei-chung 詹惟中 as vice president
Honduras 洪都拉斯 as Chef Ah Wen 阿溫師
Liao Bai Xiang 廖柏翔 as Xiao Wen 小溫
Eunice Lin 林彥君 as Ke Ke 可可
Tang Qi 唐琪 as Yi Sheng's grandma
Reina Ikehata 池端玲名 as Lina


== Soundtrack ==
Dilemma 兩難 by Fish Leong 梁静茹
Barely Friends 邊緣朋友 by Yen-j 嚴爵
I am Water 我是水 by Yen-j 嚴爵
I Like (No, I Love) 我喜歡（不，我愛）by Yen-j 嚴爵
Beginning of the End 終於結束的起點 by Mayday 五月天
Love Today by Yen-j 嚴爵 & Xiang Nai-er 香奈兒


== Broadcast ==


== Ratings ==
Competing programmes on rival channels airing at the same time slot were:

SET Metro - Memory Love
CTS - Genius Go Go Go
FTV - Just Dance
CTV - Mr. Player
PTS - Days We Stared at the Sun II, Wake Up 2

^Note 1: The average rating calculation does not include special episode.


== References ==


== External links ==
Jojo's World TTV Official Website
Jojo's World EBC Official Website
Jojo's World on Facebook

Medway Community Forest Coop Ltd. is a community forest pilot project in southwestern Nova Scotia. Covering 15,000 hectares of land, it is the first community-owned forest on crown land in Canada east of Quebec.
It borders the Kejimkujik National Park and the Tobeatic Wilderness Area.


== History ==
The provincial government bought private lands in southwestern Nova Scotia belonging to Resolute Forest Products in 2012. At the same time, community forestry in Nova Scotia quickly picked up steam after a discussion paper was published by Dalhousie University. In 2013, the government launched two calls for proposals of a community project pilot and Medway Community Forest was accepted. After some negotiations, the agreement was signed in January 2015.
The community forest commissioned a report in 2017 for the establishment of a carbon offset program in a cap and trade system


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Community Forests - A Discussion Paper for Nova Scotians

PlayStation Mobile was a software framework used to provide downloadable PlayStation content for select "Certified" mobile devices. This includes devices that both run Android 2.3 and met specific hardware requirements, PlayStation Vita, and PlayStation TV. It was active from 2012 to 2015.
It was originally announced in 2011 as PlayStation Suite. It was based on the Mono platform. An open beta was released in April 2012 before it officially launched in most regions of the world on October 3, 2012. In May 2013, Sony announced that the publisher license fee would be waived in an attempt to entice more developers to create games for the service. In August 2014 with version 2.00, Sony announced that it will deprecate support for Android and target only PlayStation Vita and PlayStation TV. It was announced in 2015 that PlayStation Mobile will be shutting down entirely. The service never gained traction despite availability on a range of handsets by many manufacturers. The storefront was closed in July 2015, with the service completely shutting down on September 10, 2015.


== Games ==
The games released under PlayStation Mobile were available to devices via the PlayStation Store, allowing players to download the titles to their devices. Games released under the program could have the DualShock controls overlaid on top of the touchscreen, however for devices which have analog buttons such as the PlayStation Vita and Xperia Play, the controls were mapped directly to them. Developers could also make purely touch screen games, if they so choose.
At E3 2012, Sony announced that PlayStation Mobile had 56 established software houses committed to providing content on the platform.
There were 683 games available on the service.


== PlayStation Certified ==

To ensure that Android devices run PlayStation Mobile content correctly, Sony created a set of guidelines and requirements for hardware known as PlayStation Certified. The first certified device was Sony Ericsson Xperia Play. The PlayStation Vita and PlayStation TV also had access to PlayStation Mobile. In a November 2011 update, the previously released Sony Ericsson Xperia Arc, and Sony Ericsson Xperia acro became PlayStation Certified. The Sony Xperia S, Sony Xperia ion and Sony Tablets were also PlayStation Certified.
HTC was the first non-Sony manufacturing company revealed to offer PlayStation Certified devices. The HTC One series handsets were supported, noted models include HTC One X, HTC One S, HTC One V, HTC One XL, HTC One X+ and the HTC Evo 4G LTE .
At Sony's 2012 Gamescom press conference, it was revealed that the WikiPad gaming tablet would also be PlayStation Certified and that ASUS would also create certified hardware. At Sony's Tokyo Game Show 2012 press conference, Fujitsu and Sharp were announced as two more partners.
A full list of PlayStation Certified devices could be found at PlayStation Mobile download page but has since been removed.


== Legacy ==
Following the shut down of PlayStation Mobile, Sony launched a new subsidiary called ForwardWorks in 2016. It provided mobile games to users in Japan and the rest of Asia.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website 
Developer Portal Archived 2015-11-06 at the Wayback Machine

Naturally occurring erbium (68Er) is composed of six stable isotopes, with 166Er being the most abundant (33.503% natural abundance). Radioisotopes have been characterized with from 145Er to 175Er, all having half-lives less than ten days: the most stable are 169Er (9.39 days), 172Er (49.3 hours), and 160Er (28.58 hours). All of the remaining radioactive isotopes have half-lives that are less than 11 hours, and the majority of these have half-lives that are less than 4 minutes. This element also has numerous meta states, with the most stable being 149m1Er (t1/2 = 8.9 seconds).
The primary decay mode before the most abundant stable isotope, 166Er, is electron capture to holmium isotopes, and the primary mode after is beta decay to thulium isotopes. All isotopes of erbium are either radioactive or observationally stable, meaning that they are predicted to be radioactive but no actual decay has been observed.


== List of isotopes ==


== See also ==
Daughter products other than erbium

Isotopes of thulium
Isotopes of holmium
Isotopes of dysprosium


== References ==

Isotope masses from:
Wang, Meng; Huang, W.J.; Kondev, F.G.; Audi, G.; Naimi, S. (2021). "The AME 2020 atomic mass evaluation (II). Tables, graphs and references*". Chinese Physics C. 45 (3) 030003. doi:10.1088/1674-1137/abddaf.
Isotopic compositions and standard atomic masses from:
Kondev, F. G.; Wang, M.; Huang, W. J.; Naimi, S.; Audi, G. (2021). "The NUBASE2020 evaluation of nuclear properties" (PDF). Chinese Physics C. 45 (3) 030001. doi:10.1088/1674-1137/abddae.
de Laeter, John Robert; Böhlke, John Karl; De Bièvre, Paul; Hidaka, Hiroshi; Peiser, H. Steffen; Rosman, Kevin J. R.; Taylor, Philip D. P. (2003). "Atomic weights of the elements. Review 2000 (IUPAC Technical Report)". Pure and Applied Chemistry. 75 (6): 683–800. doi:10.1351/pac200375060683.
Wieser, Michael E. (2006). "Atomic weights of the elements 2005 (IUPAC Technical Report)". Pure and Applied Chemistry. 78 (11): 2051–2066. doi:10.1351/pac200678112051.
"News & Notices: Standard Atomic Weights Revised". International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry. 19 October 2005.
Half-life, spin, and isomer data selected from the following sources.
Kondev, F. G.; Wang, M.; Huang, W. J.; Naimi, S.; Audi, G. (2021). "The NUBASE2020 evaluation of nuclear properties" (PDF). Chinese Physics C. 45 (3) 030001. doi:10.1088/1674-1137/abddae.
National Nuclear Data Center. "NuDat 3.0 database". Brookhaven National Laboratory.
Holden, Norman E. (2004). "11. Table of the Isotopes". In Lide, David R. (ed.). CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics (85th ed.). Boca Raton, Florida: CRC Press. ISBN 978-0-8493-0485-9.

Baleh Dasti (Persian: بله دستي) is a village in, and the capital of, Yeylaq-e Shomali Rural District of the Central District of Dehgolan County, Kurdistan province, Iran.


== Demographics ==


=== Ethnicity ===
The village is populated by Kurds.


=== Population ===
At the time of the 2006 National Census, the village's population was 1,162 in 286 households, when it was in the former Yeylaq District of Qorveh County. The following census in 2011 counted 1,314 people in 347 households, by which time the district had been separated from the county in the establishment of Dehgolan County. The rural district was transferred to the new Central District. The 2016 census measured the population of the village as 1,241 people in 366 households. It was the most populous village in its rural district.


== See also ==
 Iran portal


== Notes ==


== References ==

The Amalgamated Society of Lithographic Printers (ASLP) was a trade union representing printers and their assistants in the United Kingdom and Ireland.


== History ==
The Central Association of Lithographic and Copper-Plate Printers' Societies was founded in or before 1860 by local trade unions, in Belfast, Dublin, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Liverpool, Manchester and Sheffield. Unions in Bradford and Stockport later joined, and in 1879 the Bradford and Manchester unions took the initiative in establishing a new, centralised union.  This was the Amalgamated Society of Lithographic Printers and Auxiliaries, based in Manchester.
The union initially had about 500 members, but it grew rapidly under the leadership of George Davy Kelley, setting up its own offices in Manchester. The Manchester branch ran the union, with it electing the entire executive until 1914.  Membership grew to about 3,500 by 1900, and reached 5,168 in 1915.  In 1930, it was further boosted when the Litho Music Printers merged into the ASLP.
In the 1950s and 1960s, there was a boom in lithographic printing, and although it led membership to increase to 11,000, the union worried that it would lose control of the trade. As a result, in 1969, it merged into the National Graphical Association.


== Election results ==
The union sponsored its general secretary as a Labour Party candidate in the 1906 UK general election.


== General Secretaries ==
1879: George Davy Kelley
1912: Thomas Sproat
1931: F. F. Boaler
1937: R. T. Williams
1958: Stanley Gilman
1960: Ron Emerick


== References ==

Giacomo Luigi Brignole (8 May 1797 – 23 June 1853) was a Catholic Cardinal and Camerlengo of the Sacred College of Cardinals.


== Early life ==
Brignole was born on 8 May 1797 in Genoa, then the capital of the Republic of Genoa.
He was educated at local institutions in Genoa where he studied humanities and then at the La Sapienza University in Rome where he received a doctorate in utroque iuris (both civil and canon law) in 1835. After being ordained as a priest he was appointed Vice-legate in Ferrara and later Vicar of the patriarchal Lateran Basilica in Rome.
He was elected titular archbishop of Nazianzo in and was consecrated in 1830, Rome, by Cardinal Giacomo Filippo Franzoni and was appointed Treasurer General of the Apostolic Chamber in 1833.


== Cardinalate ==
Brignole was elevated to cardinal-priest in 1834 and was appointed President of the Commission of Subsidies in 1840.
He participated in the Papal Conclave of 1846 which elected Pope Pius IX.
He also held the positions of Prefect of the Sacred Consulta of the Index and President of the Consulta of State. In 1851 he was appointed Camerlengo of the Sacred College of Cardinals, a position he held, as was convention at the time, for a year until 1852.


== Death, burial and funeral ==
Brignole died on 23 June 1853 in Rome. His body was exposed in the basilica of San Lorenzo in Damaso. Pope Pius IX participated in his funeral and he was finally buried, according to his will, in the church of St Cecilia.


== References ==

Železna Gora is a village in northern Croatia, part of the Štrigova municipality within Međimurje County.


== History ==

Oldest archaeological finds in Železna Gora are from Roman period. Burial mounds and fragments of pottery were found in the hamlet of Trnovčak. Fragments of the Roman roads were found at the same locality.
Hamlet of Lohovec (Lohowecz) is first settlement mentioned in today's Železna Gora. Settlement is mentioned in the 15th century.
Terbotz Manor, most notable building in village, was built in the 19th century by  members of noble family  Zichy-Terbotz. Manor is located on prominent position surrounded by vineyards.


== Geography ==
Železna Gora is located in part of Međimurje called Gornje Međimurje. Settlement is about 16 kilometres northwest from Čakovec, and some 110 kilometres north of Zagreb.
Landscape of Železna Gora consist of low hills called Međimurske gorice, covered with vineyards, orchards and woodlands. Village is located on road that connects county seat Čakovec with town of Ljutomer in Slovenia.
Železna Gora had a population of 465  in 2011 census. Železna Gora is experiencing population decline.


== References ==

Kamalkanta Verma was an Indian judge and the former Chief Justice of the Indian High Courts.


== Career ==
Verma was appointed a judge of the Allahabad High Court in 1937. He served on the court for nearly a decade before succeeding Justice Iqbal Ahmad as Chief Justice in September 1946. Verma was transferred to the High Court of the former princely state of Udaipur. He became its Chief Justice in 1949. Following the integration of the princely states of Rajputana, the institution became part of the judicial structure of the newly formed state of Rajasthan. He was appointed as the first Chief Justice of the Rajasthan High Court and served there from 29 August 1949 to 24 January 1950.


== References ==

Porto Alegre Futebol Clube, usually known simply as Porto Alegre, was a Brazilian football club from Porto Alegre, Brazil. It is owned by former footballer Roberto Assis, Ronaldinho's brother.
On 30 January 2012 the club closed its activities. In 2022, the physical structure of Parque Lami was sold to Monsoon FC.


== History ==


=== Lami ===
The club was founded on June 10, 2003, as Lami Futebol Clube.
In 2003, Lami won its first title, the Campeonato Gaúcho Third Level.


=== Porto Alegre ===
In 2006, the club was bought by Roberto Assis and renamed to Porto Alegre Futebol Clube.


=== Club colors ===
Porto Alegre's colors are inspired by the two most popular Rio Grande do Sul football clubs, Grêmio and Internacional, and Spanish club FC Barcelona. The home kit is composed of red and white vertical stripes, white shorts and red socks. The away kit is like FC Barcelona's home kit, being composed of blue and red vertical stripes, blue shorts and blue socks. The third kit is composed of a three-colored vertical sash in a black shirt, white shorts and gray socks.


=== Flamengo ===
In 2010, the Porto Alegre mediated a partnership with the Flamengo the intention is use the structure of Porto Alegre.


== Honours ==
Campeonato Gaúcho Série A2
Winners (1): 2009
Campeonato Gaúcho Série B
Winners (1): 2003


== Season records ==


== Stadium ==


=== Estádio João da Silva Moreira ===
Porto Alegre play their home games at Estádio João da Silva Moreira (also known as Parque Lami).


== Presidents ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Porto Alegre Futebol Clube official website (in Portuguese)

Newbury railway station is located in the centre of the market town of Newbury, in Berkshire, England. The station lies 53 miles 6 chains (53.08 mi; 85.4 km) from London Paddington. It is served by stopping services between Reading and Newbury and Bedwyn, and by faster services between London Paddington, Exeter St Davids and other parts of Devon and Cornwall. All services are operated by Great Western Railway.
The station was formerly a junction with both the north–south Didcot, Newbury and Southampton Railway and for the Lambourn Valley Railway.


== History ==


=== Line opening ===
Newbury station was opened on 21 December 1847 as part of the Berks and Hants Railway from Reading to Hungerford. Newbury was an important junction on the Didcot, Newbury and Southampton Railway (DN&SR), the first section of which opened between Didcot and Newbury in 1881. The route to Winchester was then opened in 1885 but it was not until 1891 that a route to Southampton was completed. However, the route did not include the planned independent Southampton terminus and instead used the terminus owned by the London and South Western Railway.
In 1898, the Lambourn Valley Railway (LVR) was opened which ran from the west of the station to Lambourn, north-west of Newbury. Trains to Lambourn started from the bay on the north platform at its western end.


=== Station expansion ===

By 1890, Newbury was an important station and junction. There were two lines through the station covered by an overall roof, plus a footbridge, turntable, goods yard and two bay platforms. However, the expansion of the DN&SR and the later opening of the LVR created a bottleneck in Newbury, especially for express trains on the Reading to Plymouth line.
Between 1908 and 1910, the station was rebuilt to extend the platforms and create two loops to ensure trains stopping at the station did not block the line for express and freight trains. Red brick was used for the new station buildings which are still in use today. A new footbridge was built across the station.
The expansion also included the building of two signal boxes, one at each end of the station. It was possible to hear the bells in these boxes ringing from a point mid-way along the main platforms. Access to the yard became possible from the down and up through lines and the main up (north) platform.


=== Line closures ===
The 1960s saw the closure of both the DN&SR and the LVR due to declining passenger and freight traffic on both lines. Regular local services southwards to Winchester ended in March 1960 and those northwards to Didcot in September 1962. The last passenger train to use the DN&SR ran in May 1964, a rerouted express train resulting from a derailment at Reading West. The tracks were lifted in 1967.
British Railways (BR) withdrew LVR passenger services on 4 January 1960, but freight services continued to serve RAF Welford into the 1970s. When the United States Air Force decided it no longer needed to use the rail link, it handed control back to BR in 1973. One last passenger special operated on the line in November of that year before the line was totally closed and the track was later lifted.
As a result of the closure of the LVR the bay platform on the north side at the western end of the station was no longer needed and the track was removed. The bay on the south side remained in use into the 1970s for recessing local trains to Bedwyn until a down express had passed; the local train would reverse into the bay, to leave the main down platform free for an express to call, thus allowing passengers disembarking from the express to board the local train for onward travel towards Bedwyn. The south bay was later removed when the station was resignalled and the track layout altered to allow down expresses to serve the north side platform. Both west end bays are now car parks. The sole east end bay on the north side of the line is maintained for use for eastbound passenger services starting at Newbury. Locally it is still called the "Compton Bay" because of its original purpose on the DN&SR.


=== Electrification and modernisation ===
In December 2018, Newbury became the western limit of electrification from Reading, as part of the Great Western electrification scheme. To prepare the station for electrification, it was announced that the station would benefit from a £6 million upgrade to improve connections for pedestrians and public transport users. A new footbridge was completed in May 2018 allowing disabled access across the platforms, replacing the old footbridge which was dismantled in June 2018 after nearly 110 years of service. Electrical wire gantries have also been erected over the station canopies, which were cut back for the removal of the footbridge.


=== Service history ===
The station was part of the Great Western Railway until Britain's railways were nationalised in 1948. After the sectorisation of British Rail in 1982, the station became part of Network SouthEast and was also a stop on the InterCity network. From 1996 until 2004, services were provided by Thames Trains and, from 2004 to 2006, services were provided by First Great Western Link. Since 2006, services have been provided by Great Western Railway, which rebranded from First Great Western.


== Layout ==

The current station has two through platforms, both on loops off the main line, leaving two through tracks running through the middle of the station. There is also a bay platform on the north east side for short trains to and from Reading. These parts of the station layout have all survived from the expansion of the station in 1908. The platform access was converted to entry by ticket through automatic barriers early in 2013.
The northbound up platform has provision for trains to call in either direction. This facility is not frequently used in the current timetable except during periods of severe line congestion to avoid delays, however, it was not uncommon for Down trains to call on this platform in the past. The signalling also allows for the station to continue operating when the southbound platform is closed for any reason.
To the east of the station there is a siding on the up line. It is still commonly used for storing engineering units. Local services sometimes use it to allow passengers wishing to travel to intervening stations to connect from inter-city services.

Also to the east of the station, on the Down line is a loop which also runs through Newbury Racecourse which is used regularly as a passing point by freight trains and also by local services in the same way as the sidings on the north side. This loop is also used by local services calling at Newbury Racecourse during race days. Special chartered trains hauled by steam locomotives often use the loop to take on water because it has good road access although the down platform in Newbury station can also be used for this purpose. All trains that pass through the loop must continue through the loop for the down platform to rejoin the main line.
The station is now signalled with colour light signals controlled from Thames Valley Signalling Centre in Didcot.


== Facilities ==
The station's facilities include a staffed ticket office open on weekdays and weekends; car parks on both sides of the station; covered bicycle storage; taxi rank; toilets and a shop on Platform 2 and waiting rooms on both main platforms.
In June 2021, Great Western Railway submitted plans for a redevelopment of the station, that would see the ticket gates brought inside, new business units, a new multistorey car park and a second bicycle parking station.


== Services ==
Great Western Railway operates an hourly (Mon-Sat) semi-fast service between London Paddington and here, along with a local stopping service between here and Reading, (also hourly) calling at all intermediate stations. There is also an hourly service between here and Bedwyn, calling at all stations; long-distance services between London Paddington and Exeter St Davids call every two hours, with certain services extended to reach Paignton, Plymouth and Penzance.

Services at the station were disrupted throughout 2021 due to cracks found in the Intercity Express Trains, causing the loss of the regular direct service from Bedwyn to London. Since 2021, there has been a diesel shuttle to Bedwyn; 5 years later, despite the cracks being resolved and continued complaints, this service is still in operation. Rail magazine reported GWR's position on the matter, sayingThe [Bedwyn Trains] passenger group has been in regular contact with GWR, which has told customers it does not know when regular Bedwyn [to London] services might be restored.
The operator has said it would not be possible to restore even one of the train sets used on the route, which would enable one third of through services. It also told the passenger group that it would not be possible for trains serving nearby Pewsey to make additional stops.


== References ==


== External links ==

Train times and station information for Newbury railway station from National Rail

Wrangle is a village in the Boston Borough of Lincolnshire, England. It is situated approximately 9 miles (14 km) north-east from the town of Boston. The population of Wrangle civil parish in 2001 was 1,265, increasing to 1,397 at the 2011 census.
Wrangle is one of eighteen parishes which, together with Boston, form the Borough of Boston. The local government has been arranged in this way since the reorganisation of 1 April 1974, which resulted from the Local Government Act 1972. This parish forms part of the Old Leake and Wrangle electoral ward.
Hitherto, the parish had formed part of Boston Rural District, in the Parts of Holland. Holland was one of the three divisions (formally known as parts) of the traditional county of Lincolnshire. Since the Local Government Act 1888, Holland had been in most respects, a county in itself.


== History ==
The name Wrangle reputedly derives from the Scandinavian Vrangr, meaning "bent" or "crooked" – a reference to a stream long since gone.
The village lies on western side of The Wash, on the broad bank of marine silt left by the great tidal creeks which formed, predominantly during the Bronze Age, about 2,500 years ago. To seaward, the marsh has accreted over the centuries, a process hastened by artificial enclosure for pasture. As this progressed, the tide no longer flowed off the marsh twice a day to keep Wrangle Haven open. With its silting, the main feature of medieval Wrangle was lost. It had been the third-biggest harbour on this coast, after Swineshead (Bicker Haven) and Boston (The Haven).
Wrangle was mentioned in the Domesday Book of 1086, when it consisted of seven households.
At Kings Hill are earthwork remains of a medieval Motte-and-bailey castle, believed to be associated with a manorial estate established during the 11th and 12th centuries. In the early 17th century this passed to King James I and the site became known as King’s Hill. The site is a scheduled monument.
Wrangle Hall was the seat of the Reade family, who resided there from the 14th century until the late 17th century. A large part of the house was taken down about 1806, and the remainder was modernised about 25 years later. Traditionally there was a chapel here, the remains of which survived in a field opposite the hall in the 18th century. This is probably the St Peter's Chapel, Wrangle, mentioned in 1342. The present Wrangle Hall is modern, built on the site of the previous building which was demolished around 1935.
Wrangle tower windmill is a Grade II-listed building which was built about 1825 of red brick. It was worked by wind until the 1930s. An electric hammer mill and mixer were in use in 1977.


== Church ==
The parish church is dedicated to Saint Mary and Saint Nicholas, and is built in the Perpendicular style of the 12th century. In the period between 1154 and 1189, the church and much land came under the governance of Waltham Abbey in Essex, which supplied its priests. It is recorded that in the glass of the east window was an inscription in Latin which translated means "Tomas de Wyversty, Abbot of Waltham had me made". The building later fell into disrepair, but was restored in the 14th century. The chancel was restored again between 1875 and 1878 by Ewan Christian. A plaque in the church commemorates some American airmen who died when their plane crashed on Wrangle Common in 1944 during the Second World War. It is a Grade I listed building.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
P. P. Hayes and Tom Lane, "Survey in the northern Fens – Wrangle, Lincolnshire", Fenland Research, vol. 5 (1988), pp. 46–49.


== External links ==
 Media related to Wrangle, Lincolnshire at Wikimedia Commons

Curt Alexander Bennett  (born March 27, 1948) is a Canadian-born American former professional ice hockey forward, who played in the National Hockey League as well as for the United States national ice hockey team in the 1970s.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
Bennett came from a family of hockey players. His father Harvey Bennett, Sr. and two of his brothers (Harvey Bennett Jr. and Bill Bennett) also played in the NHL. His nephew Mac Bennett was selected in the 2009 NHL entry draft (79th overall by the Montreal Canadiens).
Bennett played in the 1961 Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournament with a team representing Cranston High School East in Cranston, Rhode Island. He was drafted by the St. Louis Blues with the 16th pick in the 1968 NHL entry draft and joined the Blues in 1971 after three very successful seasons with the Brown University men's hockey team as a defenseman. Bennett is a member of the Brown University Athletic Hall of Fame, holding the school records for goals by a defenseman in a game (7), season and career. He graduated with a degree in Russian Studies from Brown, where he was also a captain of the men's tennis team and nominated for a Rhodes scholarship.
At one point, Bennett was married to Susan Bennett who later provided the voice of the Apple assistant "Siri".


=== Playing career ===

Bennett appeared in four NHL games in his rookie season before becoming a regular player for the Blues in the 1972 Stanley Cup playoffs. He was traded to the New York Rangers during the off-season. After 16 games with the Rangers he was dealt to the expansion Atlanta Flames where he became one of their premier forwards. Bennett provided leadership, defensive skills (he frequently guarded the opposing team's star player) and toughness that a young team needed and represented the Flames in the 1975 and 1976 NHL All Star game after scoring a career-high 65 points in the 1975–1976 NHL season. He served as one of the assistant captains on the United States team in the inaugural 1976 Canada Cup tournament. He struggled in the following two NHL seasons. He returned to the Blues along with Phil Myre and Barry Gibbs from the Flames for Bob MacMillan, Dick Redmond, Yves Bélanger and a second‐round selection in the 1979 NHL entry draft (23rd overall–Mike Perovich) on December 12, 1977. Bennett spent the next two seasons with the Blues and during those years played for the US national team at the 1978 and 1979 Ice Hockey World Championship tournaments. In the summer of 1979, he was traded back to the Flames where he played a final 21 games in 1979/80, scoring just one goal.
Bennett ended his NHL career with 334 points in 580 games. He was the first American to reach the 30 goal plateau in a season.


=== Post career ===
Bennett chose not go with the Flames when the team relocated to Calgary in 1980. Instead, he emigrated to Nikko, Japan to be a player/coach (along with his brother Harvey) for the Furukawa Denko club. While in Japan, Bennett filed television reports and wrote a number of articles for Goal magazine about his experience living in Japan and the local ice hockey culture. He had previous journalistic experience from working as a part-time Atlanta sportscaster during his career with the Flames and had also served as a national television color commentator during the 1977 Stanley Cup playoffs. He and Harvey both retired from hockey in 1982 after two years with Furukawa.
After moving back to Atlanta, he became involved in commercial real estate and continued his work with the NHL Players' Association to help players transition to life after hockey. In 1992-93, he was an assistant coach for the International Hockey League Atlanta Knights and led a group of local businessmen working to bring NHL hockey back to Atlanta.
In 2000, he moved to Maui where he owns a company that designs and builds water features both in the Hawaiian Islands and on the U.S. mainland.


== Awards and honors ==
Played in NHL All-Star game (1975,1976)


== Career statistics ==


=== Regular season and playoffs ===


=== International ===


== References ==

Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or Hockey-Reference.com, or The Internet Hockey Database
Curt Bennett's homepage
Bennett's player profile at HockeyDraftCentral.com

Glenrothes West and Kinglassie is one of the 22 wards used to elect members of the Fife council. It elects three Councillors.


== Councillors ==


== Election results ==


=== 2026 by-election ===

Source:


=== 2022 election ===
2022 Fife Council election 


=== 2017 Election ===
2017 Fife Council election 


=== October 2015 By-election ===
A by-election was called after Peter Grant resigned his seat, having been elected MP for Glenrothes


=== March 2015 By-election ===
A by-election was called after Betty Campbell died.


=== 2012 Election ===
2012 Fife Council election


=== 2007 Election ===
2007 Fife Council election


== References ==

Lorraine Francis (born 5 November 1958) is an Irish children's writer.


== Biography ==
Born Lorraine Francis in Athlone, Ireland on 5 November 1958, Francis has worked as a librarian for a number of years after completing a year of art college and taking time out for travel. She began writing for children in 1999 and most recently has been working with illustrator Pieter Gaudesaboos. He is an artist while Francis has been runner up in the Francis MacManus Award. She was published in an anthology edited by Hugh Leonard and Clare Boylan. Her children's books have been used in education in both Ireland and the United States.


== Bibliography ==
Réveille toi, Walter!, 2019
Een huis vol vrienden, 2019
Word wakker Walter, 2016
Uyan Walter, 2017
Sammy and the Skyscraper Sandwich, 2013
Het Boek van Mannetje Koek, 2009
The great trolley race, 2003
Pandora's Lunch Box, 2002
The Origami Bird, 2001
Save Our Sweet Shop, 2000
Lulu's Tutu, 1999


== References and sources ==

Van Dammes are a Finnish four-piece garage punk band from Helsinki, originally formed in Brussels in 2013.
Their debut recording, The VD EP, garnered attention from various music blogs in 2014, and was named Record of the Week on Radio Helsinki's New Music Show. As their fast and concise style gained recognition, the second EP, Better Than Sex, gained attention from major Finnish music magazines Rumba and Soundi in 2015. The EP was recorded in the same venue where Ramones performed in the 1970s and features tributes to a Yugoslav flight attendant Vesna Vulović and Frank Tower,  a man reputed to have survived the sinking of three ocean liners. Van Dammes also released a tribute song to Japanese ski jumping legend Noriaki Kasai. In 2017, with their third EP, Vild Days, Van Dammes dug deep into the oldest roots of punk.
Van Dammes have actively toured Europe, and are currently recording for German Rockstar Records.


== Discography ==


=== Extended plays ===
The VD EP (2014)
Better Than Sex (2015)
Vild Days (2017)
Risky Business (2019)
Finally There (2021)


=== Singles ===
Vesna (Flash in the Night) (2015)
Thunderbirds Are Go (2016)


=== Compilations ===
The Best of (2017)


=== Music videos ===
Daniel (2014)
(Let's) Go (2014)
Olé, Olé, Olé (2014)
Lisbon, I Promise You (2014)
Mr Noriaki Kasai (2014)
Vesna (Flash in the Night) (2015)
Frank Tower (2016)
Thunderbirds Are Go (2016)
Punk Rock Drummer (2017)
Every Fourth Year (2017)
Risky Business (2019)
Tax Free World (2020)
Finally There (2021)


== References ==

Alfriston is a locality south of Auckland, New Zealand. Prior to November 2010 it was under the authority of the Papakura District Council and is now part of Auckland Council. Alfriston is in the Manurewa-Papakura ward, one of the thirteen administrative divisions of Auckland Council.
The town was settled in the 1840s and was originally named Papakura Valley, before the name was changed to Alfriston, after Alfriston, Sussex, home of one of the earliest settlers, Dr George Edward Bodle. The name of the town means Aelfric's village, named for Ælfric of Eynsham.


== Demographics ==
Alfriston covers 1.85 km2 (0.71 sq mi) and had an estimated population of 4,420 as of June 2025, with a population density of 2,389 people per km2.

Alfriston had a population of 3,975 in the 2023 New Zealand census, an increase of 204 people (5.4%) since the 2018 census, and an increase of 513 people (14.8%) since the 2013 census. There were 1,938 males, 2,028 females and 6 people of other genders in 1,101 dwellings. 1.9% of people identified as LGBTIQ+. The median age was 35.8 years (compared with 38.1 years nationally). There were 813 people (20.5%) aged under 15 years, 792 (19.9%) aged 15 to 29, 1,710 (43.0%) aged 30 to 64, and 663 (16.7%) aged 65 or older.
People could identify as more than one ethnicity. The results were 30.5% European (Pākehā); 12.5% Māori; 18.7% Pasifika; 45.5% Asian; 4.7% Middle Eastern, Latin American and African New Zealanders (MELAA); and 1.5% other, which includes people giving their ethnicity as "New Zealander". English was spoken by 90.2%, Māori language by 2.8%, Samoan by 5.6%, and other languages by 37.9%. No language could be spoken by 2.6% (e.g. too young to talk). New Zealand Sign Language was known by 0.3%. The percentage of people born overseas was 46.5, compared with 28.8% nationally.
Religious affiliations were 35.6% Christian, 11.6% Hindu, 4.5% Islam, 0.7% Māori religious beliefs, 2.1% Buddhist, 0.1% New Age, 0.2% Jewish, and 13.7% other religions. People who answered that they had no religion were 27.3%, and 4.4% of people did not answer the census question.
Of those at least 15 years old, 765 (24.2%) people had a bachelor's or higher degree, 1,365 (43.2%) had a post-high school certificate or diploma, and 1,038 (32.8%) people exclusively held high school qualifications. The median income was $38,800, compared with $41,500 nationally. 324 people (10.2%) earned over $100,000 compared to 12.1% nationally. The employment status of those at least 15 was that 1,587 (50.2%) people were employed full-time, 303 (9.6%) were part-time, and 99 (3.1%) were unemployed.


== Notable places ==

Christ Church was built in 1877. The Church has a tower and spire at the front.


== Education ==
Alfriston College is a secondary school (years 9–13) with a roll of 1,273. It opened in 2004.
Alfriston School is a full primary school (years 1–8) with a roll of 374.
Both these schools are coeducational. Rolls are as of July 2026.


== References ==


== External links ==
Photographs of Alfriston held in Auckland Libraries' heritage collections.

The Women's Strike for Equality took place in the United States on August 26, 1970.  It celebrated the 50th anniversary of the passing of the Nineteenth Amendment, which effectively gave American women the right to vote. The rally was sponsored by the National Organization for Women (NOW). Estimates ranged as high as 50,000 women at the protest in New York City and more protested throughout the country. At this time, the gathering was the largest on behalf of women in the United States. The strike, spearheaded by Betty Friedan, self-stated three primary goals: free abortion on demand, equal opportunity in the workforce, and free childcare. The strike also advocated for other second wave feminist goals more generally, such as political rights for women, and social equality in relationships such as marriage.


== Historical context ==
At the time of the protest, women still did not enjoy many of the same freedoms and rights as men. Despite the passage of the Equal Pay Act of 1963, which prohibited pay discrimination between two people who performed the same job, women comparatively earned 59 cents for every dollar a man made for similar work. Women were also restricted in terms of their access to higher education. For example, Harvard University did not admit women until 1977. And regardless of education, women were generally channeled into one of four occupational choices: secretarial, nursing, teaching, or motherhood. Sandra Day O'Connor, the first female Associate Justice of the US Supreme Court, who graduated at the top of her class from Stanford Law School, was offered only secretarial jobs in Los Angeles law firms despite her prestigious degree. In 43 states, women were limited in the number of hours they could work and the amount of weight they could carry (generally no more than 25 pounds (11 kg), the size of a toddler, as some feminists noted). In many states, women were also unable to obtain credit cards, make wills, or own property without a husband. The right to serve on a jury was denied to women in some states.!


== Organization ==
Feminist Betty Jameson Armistead sent a letter to Betty Friedan and others proposing the strike. Betty Friedan, writer of The Feminine Mystique, and a leader of second-wave feminism, then planned the protest to commemorate the anniversary of landmark legislation, and spotlight current battles. She said the movement was in need of "something big, something so big it will make national headlines". Friedan initially proposed the strike to the National Organization for Women, an organization which she had helped found. Members were hesitant, however, fearful that the protest would not be successful, and could create a mockery of their movement.
Friedan continued to develop a strategy, months in advance, despite the negative reception. The initial planning meeting was small and chaotic; planners sat in a circle and discussed possible strategies without a real leader or any formal organization. The meeting produced nothing tangible or relevant. As the plans progressed, so did the controversy. In the final month leading up to the event, the group was significantly divided into two factions: the young "radical, crazies" and the "bourgeoisie" founders.
Eventually, Friedan prevailed, avoiding deep divisions by recruiting women and men, liberals and conservatives alike. Friedan sought permission from the city of New York to close Fifth Avenue for the protest. The city refused.


== The strike ==
Despite the setback, women gathered on the streets at around 5 pm (chosen so that working women could attend) and began protesting. The New York action included chanting and speeches by prominent figures (including Friedan), as well as signs and posters. Crowd estimates put somewhere between ten and twenty thousand people, mostly women, gathered on Fifth Avenue. Police attempted to keep the crowd restricted to one lane of traffic, but the sheer volume of people was impossible to control and they spread across the street from sidewalk to sidewalk.
Thousands of politically and satirically charged signs dotted the crowd. "Don't iron while the strike is hot" set the stage as the protest's famous slogan. Others included: "Hardhats for Soft Broads", "I Am Not a Barbie Doll", "Storks Fly – Why Can't Mothers", "We are the 51% minority", and the sardonic "We have the right to vote for the man of our choice". Speeches were given to ignite the crowd and inform bystanders. Friedan spoke of the strength and ability of women to rise above their oppression. The strike's goals were to publicize the feminist movement and ideas and to expose the injustices experienced by women.
In conjunction with the New York City action, individuals and groups throughout the nation staged protests, marches, and other various forms of revolt to honor the movement.  One example occurred in Boston, where around 5,000 women gathered in Boston Common and 1,000 went on to march into downtown Boston. A noon rally also drew around 2,000 people in San Francisco's Union Square. About 125 women marched on City Hall in Syracuse, N. Y., and in Manhasset, L. I., women gathered signatures on a petition urging Senate passage of the Equal Rights Amendment.
In Detroit, women staged a sit-in in a men's restroom protesting unequal facilities for men and women staffers. In Pittsburgh, four women threw eggs at a radio host who dared them to show their liberation. One thousand women in Washington, D.C. staged a march down Connecticut Avenue behind a banner reading "We Demand Equality"; in the same city, government workers organized a peaceful protest and staged a "teach-in", which educated people about the injustices done to women, mindful that it was against the law for government workers to strike. "Silent vigils" held in Los Angeles drew meager crowds of only 500. In Minneapolis, women gathered and staged guerrilla theater involving key figures in the national abortion debate, and stereotypical roles of women in American society. Women were portrayed as mothers and wives; doing dishes, rearing children and doting obnoxiously on their husbands, all while wearing heels and aprons.  Approximately 100 women participating in the strike also marched down Kiener 5 Memorial Plaza in Saint Louis as well.
Though gaining less media attention than the public demonstrations, another component of the protest was a one-day strike from work. Betty Friedan had asked that "the women who are doing menial chores in the offices as secretaries put the covers on their typewriters, [...] the waitresses stop waiting, cleaning women stop cleaning and everyone who is doing a job for which a man would be paid more stop [working]." Striking from work was intended to highlight unequal pay as well as limited job opportunities for women. In addition to refusing to perform paid labor on this day, women across the country were also asked to refrain from any household chores. By refusing to cook or clean, they were attempting to emphasize the unequal distribution of household work among the sexes. However, because of the nature of striking from unpaid labor, it is unclear how many women participated.
Despite initial obstacles and setbacks, Friedan declared the event a success. Including the protests and demonstrations throughout the country, she proclaimed, "It exceeded my wildest dreams. It's now a political movement and the message is clear".


== Reactions and media coverage ==
The strike received extensive local and national attention, both positive and negative. In opposition, some women called for the "National Celebration of Womanhood", a day dedicated to women dressing in "frilly", feminine clothing, singing while doing the laundry, and cooking breakfast in bed for their husbands. Other women simply watched the protest, unsure of its implications or what exactly the protest was about. One woman in the crowd was quoted as saying, "I don't know what these women are thinking of. I love the idea of looking delectable and having men whistle at me."
Many media outlets questioned the validity of the protest. CBS news quoted a poll that found two-thirds of American women did not feel they were oppressed. News anchor Eric Sevareid compared the feminist movement to an infectious disease and ended his report claiming that the women of the movement were nothing more than "a band of braless bubbleheads". 
Many feminists were angry and dismayed by the language used by major media outlets to describe their movement, as many claimed the reporting was biased and condescending, focusing primarily on the rage of the women in the march and not the overall message. ABC continued to fuel the anger when reporter Howard K. Smith publicly spoke against the movement, denying its credibility and claiming a lack of evidence for the cause. The women's movement subsequently engaged in a media backlash, boycotting the four major corporations whose advertising and broadcasting they found to be offensive and degrading. ABC eventually retracted Smith's statement. Smith later clarified that he did not support women's liberation because, in his view, women were already liberated. "Women dominate our elections; they probably own most of the nation's capital wealth; any man who thinks he, and not his wife, runs his family is dreaming," he said.
Not all media attention, however, was negative. President Richard Nixon issued a proclamation acknowledging the credibility of the movement and designated the anniversary of women's suffrage as "Women's Equality Day" at the behest of House Rep. Bella Abzug. Time Magazine also supported the cause and published a series of articles highlighting the issues of the movement.
The significance of the protest was vast for its supporters. Feminists and scholars claimed that the strike was a significant spark for second wave feminism, owing to the protest's high profile in the media and the country.


== See also ==
List of protest marches on Washington, D.C.


== References ==


== External links ==
Time Magazine "New Victory in an Old Crusade"
Women's Equality

Barsac station (French: Gare de Barsac) is a railway station in Barsac, Nouvelle-Aquitaine, France. The station is located on the Bordeaux–Sète railway line. The station is served by TER (local) services operated by SNCF.


== Train services ==
The following services currently call at Barsac:

local service (TER Nouvelle-Aquitaine) Bordeaux - Langon


== References ==

Kopff is a lunar impact crater that lies along the eastern edge of the inner Mare Orientale impact basin, on the western limb of the Moon. In this position the crater is seen from on edge from the Earth, and its visibility is affected by libration. This situation makes it difficult to discern much detail about the crater unless it is viewed from orbit.
At one time this crater was considered to have formed due to volcanic activity, in contrast to most lunar craters which are considered to have been created through impacts. However it is more likely that the crater was formed by an impact against a surface that was still partly molten. This has left the crater with a sharp-edged, circular rim and a flat, dark-hued interior floor. Indeed, the albedo of the interior floor matches that of the lunar mare to the west.
The southeast part of the floor is fractured with a series of narrow rilles. The floor along the northwest and northeast edges is more rugged, and these sections have escaped the lava that covered the remainder of the floor. The infrared spectrum of pure crystalline plagioclase has been identified on the northeast floor.
The crater was named after German astronomer August Kopff (1882–1960). Its designation was formally adopted by the International Astronomical Union in 1970.


== Satellite craters ==
By convention these features are identified on lunar maps by placing the letter on the side of the crater midpoint that is closest to Kopff.

The following crater has been renamed by the IAU.

Kopff A — See Lallemand.


== References ==


=== Sources ===

Abhimanyu (Sanskrit: अभिमन्यु, IAST: Abhimanyu) is a character in the ancient Hindu epic Mahābhārata. He was a young and valiant warrior of the Kuru lineage, born to Arjuna—the third Pandava brother—and Subhadra—a Vrishni princess. He was also one of the few individuals, along with his father, who knew the technique to enter the Chakravyuha, a powerful military formation. Abhimanyu was raised by his maternal family in Dvārakā because the Pandavas had been exiled for thirteen years by their cousins, the Kauravas. After his father's return, his marriage was arranged with Uttarā, the princess of the Matsya Kingdom.
Abhimanyu played a significant role on the Pandava side during the Kurukshetra War. The Kaurava soldiers banded together on the thirteenth day of the battle to build the Chakravyuha in an effort to defeat the Pandavas. With Arjuna diverted to another part of the battlefield, Abhimanyu was the only one who was able to burst through the formation and take on the Kaurava soldiers. At that point, seven maharathis (powerful warriors) launched simultaneous attacks on him while violating several kshatriya codes, and he was killed at the age of sixteen.
Abhimanyu's posthumous son Parikshit saved the Kuru lineage from extinction, and became a well known monarch celebrated both in the Mahabharata and the Bhagavata Purana.


== Etymology and epithets ==
Abhimanyu is a Sanskrit name that translates to "one who is with self-respect". It can alternatively be rendered as "heroic" or "fiery". In the Mahabharata, a number of epithets are used to describe Abhimanyu. The following is a list of some of them.

Ārjuni - 'son of Arjuna'.
Arjunātmaja - 'son of Arjuna'.
Arjunāpara - 'he who is equal to Arjuna'.
Phālguni - 'son of Phalguna (Arjuna)'.
Śakrātmajatmāja - 'son of Indra's son (Arjuna)'.
Saubhadra - 'son of Subhadra'.
Janmavira - 'one who is brave from birth'.


== Literary background ==
The Mahabharata, a Sanskrit epic from the Indian subcontinent, tells the tale of Abhimanyu. He is related to the epic's hero Arjuna, who was his father, and Krishna, his maternal uncle who is also a key figure in the Mahabharata. The text, which has undergone numerous modifications, edits, and interpolations over many years, is written in classical Sanskrit. The oldest passages in the text that has survived date back to perhaps around 400 BCE. Scholars have attempted to construct a critical edition, relying mostly on a study of the "Bombay" edition, the "Poona" edition, the "Calcutta" edition and the "south Indian" editions of the manuscripts. The most accepted version is one prepared by scholars led by Vishnu Sukthankar at the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, preserved at Kyoto University, Cambridge University and various Indian universities.
The fight between the five Pandavas, and the one hundred Kauravas is at the heart of the narrative of the Mahabharata. The epic's main focus is on their great conflict, known as the Kurukshetra War. The majority of the text describes the various battles between the warriors of two sides during the war. The Mahabharata is divided into eighteen parva or 'books'. Like many other major characters, Abhimanyu is also introduced in the Adi Parva—the first of the 18 parvas. The seventh book's Abhimanyu-badha Parva focuses on Abhimanyu, who is lauded throughout, and has a thorough account of how he died.


== Legends ==


=== Previous life ===
The Sambhava Parva of the Adi Parva narrates the reason behind Abhimanyu's birth and his early demise. It was once proposed at a meeting of the gods that Varchas, the son of the lunar god Soma, take on the earthly form of Abhimanyu and aid in the annihilation of evil men. Soma, who was unwilling to give up his son, accepted to their proposal only on the condition that Varchas would come back to him once he (as Abhimanyu) became sixteen.


=== Birth and early life ===
Abhimanyu was born to Arjuna—the third of the Pandava brothers—and his wife Subhadra, who belonged to the Yadava clan. Arjuna first instructed him in military education before the Pandavas were coerced into giving up their kingdom and banished for thirteen years by their cousin Duryodhana. During this time, Subhadra remained in the kingdom of Dvaraka, the home of her brother, and raised Abhimanyu there with the help of her family. Abhimanyu received military instruction from his uncles Balarama and Krishna as well as his maternal cousin Pradyumna. When the Pandavas returned from exile, Duryodhana refused to give them their kingdom back, which ultimately sparked the Kurukshetra War.
Arjuna taught Abhimanyu the strategy for breaking into chakravyuha, a formidable military structure that resembled a labyrinth of several defensive walls. Abhimanyu was one of the four warriors who knew this skill, according to Yudhishthira. A later folklore adds that Abhimanyu learned this information from Arjuna while still inside his mother's womb. However, he was unable to hear how to exit the chakravyuha, and this incomplete knowledge later contributed to his demise.


=== Marriage ===

Abhimanyu's marriage is narrated in the Virata Parva, the fourth book of the epic. The Pandavas had to live secretly and avoid being discovered during the final year of their exile. The Pandavas stayed in the kingdom of Matsya in disguise and served its ruler Virata. The king's daughter, Uttarā, was taught dancing and music by Arjuna, who pretended to be a eunuch named Brihannala. When their year of disguise came to an end and the Pandavas' true identities were revealed, Virata asked Arjuna to marry Uttarā. However, Arjuna declined because he had served as her teacher during that time. Instead, he put forward the idea of Uttara and Abhimanyu being married. The marriage ceremony was held in the city of Upaplavya. Abhimanyu had gotten his wife pregnant before his death, and she later gave birth to a son, Parikshit. Following the Pandavas' victory in the Kurukshetra War, Parikshit becomes the heir-apparent of Yudhishthira and later takes Yudhisthira's place as ruler of Hastinapura.


=== The Kurukshetra War ===
Abhimanyu sided with the Pandavas in the Kurukshetra War. Even though he was a young man, he exhibited amazing bravery in the conflict. In the fifth book of the epic, Udyoga Parva, Abhimanyu was categorised as a Atirathi ('leader of leaders of car-divisions') by Bhishma, the Kuru gransire who oversaw the Kaurava side during the first eleven days of the conflict.
The Bhishma Parva contains a thorough account of the battles fought during the first eleven days of the war, when Bhishma served as the Kaurava side's commander. Abhimanyu first engaged in combat with Brihatbala, the king of Kosala, on the first day. Later, during a terrible battle with Bhishma, Abhimanyu broke Bhishma's flagstaff. He engaged in combat alongside Lakshmana, son of Duryodhana, on the second day. He then occupied a position in the semi-circular phalanx Arjuna had built, known as the Ardha Chandra Vyuha. He also fought the Gandharas ferociously and when he invaded Shalya, the Magadha king Jayatsena and his elephant were slaughtered. After assisting Bhima in battle, Abhimanyu went on to defeat Lakshmana once more. Additionally, Vikarna, Chitrasena, and other Kaurava brothers were vanquished by Abhimanyu. Later, he assumed his place in the Shringataka Vyuha built by Dhrishtadyumna, the commander of the Pandava side. Abhimanyu also defeated Ambashtha and Alambusha. He then engaged in combat with Sudishna, Duryodhana, and Brihatbala.


=== Death ===

Abhimanyu's death is described in detail in the Abhimanyu-vadha Parva of the Drona Parva, the eighth book of the Mahabharata.
After Bhishma was defeated on the eleventh day, Drona—who had formerly been both the Pandavas' and the Kauravas' teacher—was named the new leader of the Kaurava side. After a lacklustre performance on the twelfth day, Duryodhana reprimanded him and reminded him of his vow to vanquish the Pandavas. Drona made the decision to start the chakravyuha after feeling embarrassed. As Arjuna was skilled in chakravyuha defence, he requested Duryodhana to divert Arjuna. On the thirteenth day, Arjuna was detoured to the south by Samsaptakas. The army of Kauravas, led by Dronacharya, then arranged themselves in the array of Chakravyuha. The maharathis such as Drona, Karna, Shalya, Kripa, Ashvatthama, Duryodhana, Jayadratha, Duhshasana and Bhurishrava formed the wheel formation, guarded by millions of soldiers. The Pandava forces advanced to engage in combat, but all were forced back by Drona's lethal arrows. As one of the few people who was capable of entering the chakravyuha, Abhimanyu was given the task by Yudhisthira. Abhimanyu reminded Yudhishthira that he didn't know the escape from the formation, but Yudhishthira persuaded him that their warriors were following him to help in case of fatal danger.
Abhimanyu then commanded his charioteer, Sumitra, to head for Drona, while Pandavas trailed behind him. The Kaurava soldiers attacked Abhimanyu, but he cut through their formidable defence and tore it apart. Then formidable Kaurava warriors challenged him. In separate battles, Abhimanyu defeated Duryodhana, Dushashana, Drona, Ashvathama, Karna, Shakuni. He also slew numerous enemy warriors, including the son of King Asmaka, the brothers of Shalya, Rukmaratha, Lakshmana, Vrindaka, Brihatbala, Asvaketu, and the Bhoja prince Martikavata. Duryodhana, outraged at his son's murder, instructed Drona to alter the original plan to assassinate Abhimanyu. The Pandavas forces were stopped by Jayadratha, who ultimately vanquished all four of them, leaving Abhimanyu all by himself. Shakuni, Duryodhana's infamous uncle, devised a strategy to attack him simultaneously that violated the rules of war. Abhimanyu was immediately assailed by the six maharathis—Duryodhan, Dushasan, Dronacharya, Kripacharya, Karna and Shakuni. They demolished his chariot, killed the horses of his chariot, broke his weapons, and shot him with numerous arrows. He continued to fight using a chariot wheel even though he was exhausted and hopeless at this point, killing numerous Gandhara soldiers. A blow to the head from Dushashana's son ultimately caused him to succumb to his wounds and he died as a hero.


== In derivative works ==


=== Sasirekha Parinayam ===

While the Mahabharata mentions Uttarā as Abhimanyu's only wife, the Telugu folktale Sasirekha Parinayam adds the story of Abhimanyu marrying Sashirekha (also known as Vatsala), the daughter of his uncle Balarama, before marrying Uttarā. According to the story, Abhimanyu fell in love with Sasirekha while staying in Dvaraka, but Revathi wanted her to marry Lakshmana, Duryodhana's son. Ghatotkacha, Bhima's son who wanted to help his cousin, disguised himself as Sashirekha and broke Lakshmana's arm. As a result of the incident, Lakshmana ended his marriage to Sashirekha. The real Sashirekha and Abhimanyu were married in the forest at the time. No such has been attested in the Mahabharata.


=== Wayang ===

In Indonesia, in Javanese wayang culture, Abhimanyu (Indonesian: Abimanyu) is an important figure. His figure in Indonesian - Javanese culture, has developed and is different from the version in India.
In the wayang, Abimanyu is told as a character who is gentle, well-behaved, honest, firm-hearted, responsible, and brave. He is also known as Angkawijaya, Jaya Murcita, Jaka Pengalasan, Partasuta, Kirityatmaja, Sumbadraatmaja, Wanudara and Wirabatana. In this version of story, he has 13 other siblings, possesses two divine revelations — Hidayat, which can make him understand everything, and Makutha Raja, gained because of his solemn asceticism. He is taught military by his father (Arjuna) directly, while he got mysticism from his grandfather, Bagawan Abiyasa. Abimanyu lived in the Palangkawati knighthood after defeating Prabu Jayamurcita. His wives are Dewi Siti Sundari, daughter of Prabu Kresna, king of the Dwarawati state with Dewi Pratiwi. The story of Abimanyu's marriage to Siti Sundari was performed in a leather puppet show with the title Alap-Alapan Siti Sundari or Jaya Murcita Ngraman. Dewi Utari, daughter of King Matsyapati and Dewi Ni Yutisnawati, from the country of Wirata, and the son of Parikesit. The story of Abimanyu's marriage to Utari was performed in a wayang kulit stage with the title Putu Rabi Nini or Kalabendana Gugur.

Abimanyu died in Baratayuda, the battle between the Kauravas against the Pandavas in the Kurukshetra field. At that time, only three knights from the Pandavas were on the battlefield and mastered the war strategy, namely Bhima, Arjuna, and Abimanyu.  Ghatotkacha left because Karna stretched out Kunta Wijayadanu's weapon.  Other knights lured Bima and Arjuna from the Kauravas to get out of the battlefield, so Abimanyu was the only one that the Pandavas relied on at that time.
After all his brothers died, Abimanyu forgot to set up the battle formation.  He advanced alone into the middle of the Kauravas line and was trapped in the deadly formation his enemy had set up. The Kauravas rained weapons on Abimanyu's body until Abimanyu fell and fell from his horse—in the wayang, the wounds of charcoal from the basket are depicted (a lot of them).  Abimanyu looks like a hedgehog because of the various weapons stuck in his body. According to the story, the incident was a risk of taking an oath when proposing to Dewi Utari. Abimanyu once swore that he was still single and stated that if he took a perjury oath, he was ready to die being beaten and impaled by various weapons of his enemies. Abimanyu took a perjury oath because, at that time, he had already married Dewi Siti Sundari.
With various weapons stuck all over his body, Abimanyu could no longer walk.  However, Abimanyu did not give up. He even managed to kill the future crown prince of Astina, namely Lesmana Mandrakumara, son of Prabu Duryodana, by throwing the Pulanggeni kris after penetrating the bodies of four other soldiers. At that time, the Kauravas knew that killing Abimanyu required cutting off the langsang in his chest. In the end, Abimanyu was killed by the mace of Kyai Glinggang or Galih Asem belonging to Jayadrata, a knight from Banakeling.


== In popular culture ==
In 1974, a base named INS Abhimanyu was established symbolizing the character of Abhimanyu. On 1 May 1980, the Premier Chariot Base in Mumbai was commissioned as the permanent base for the unit.  The Indian Maritime Special Forces (IMSF) is based with INS Abhimanyu.
In media adaptations, Abhimanyu has been portrayed by actors such as Ashok Kumar in Uttara Abhimanyu (1946 film), S. M. Kumaresan in Tamil Abhimanyu (1948 film), Akkineni Nageswara Rao and Gemini Ganesan in the Telugu and Tamil film version of the film Mayabazar (1957) respectively, Nandamuri Balakrishna in the Telugu Film Daana Veera Soora Karna (1977), Mayur Verma in B. R. Chopra's Mahabharat (1988 TV series), Anuj Sharma in Krishna (TV series), Paras Arora in Star plus's Mahabharat (2013 TV series), Meghan Jadhav in SET's series Suryaputra Karna, and Nikhil Kumar in Kannada movie Kurukshetra (2019).


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Abhimanyu at Wikimedia Commons

Lucía González Blanco (born 9 July 1990) is a Spanish professional cyclo-cross and road racing cyclist, who rode for UCI Women's Continental Team Bizkaia–Durango in road racing, and rides for UCI Cyclo-cross Team Nesta–Škoda Alecar in cyclo-cross. She represented her nation in the women's elite event at the 2016 UCI Cyclo-cross World Championships in Heusden-Zolder.
She finished third in the 2013 Spanish National Road Race Championships.


== See also ==
List of 2015 UCI Women's Teams and riders


== References ==


== External links ==
Lucía González Blanco at UCI
Lucía González Blanco at ProCyclingStats
Lucía González Blanco at Cycling Quotient
Lucía González Blanco at MTB Data
Lucía González Blanco at InterSportStats

The technological and industrial history of Canada encompasses the country's development in the areas of transportation, communication, energy, materials, public works, public services (health care), domestic/consumer and defence technologies.
The terms chosen for the "age" described below are both literal and metaphorical. They describe the technology that dominated the period of time in question but are also representative of a large number of other technologies introduced during the same period. Also of note is the fact that the period of diffusion of a technology can begin modestly and can extend well beyond the "age" of its introduction. To maintain continuity, the treatment of its diffusion is dealt with in the context of its dominant "age".
Technology is a major cultural determinant, no less important in shaping human lives than philosophy, religion, social organization, or political systems. In the broadest sense, these forces are also aspects of technology. The French sociologist Jacques Ellul defined la technique as the totality of all rational methods in every field of human activity so that, for example, education, law, sports, propaganda, and the social sciences are all technologies in that sense. At the other end of the scale, common parlance limits the term's meaning to specific industrial arts.


== Late Electric Age (1901–1920) ==


=== Industrial processes and techniques ===
Metal mining also became significant industry during this period. The International Nickel Company (Inco) was established in 1902 through the fusion of two companies. A refinery using the Orford process was built in Port Colborne, Ontario in 1918 and then moved to Copper Cliff, Ontario, where that technique was replaced by the matte flotation process in 1948. Hard rock gold mining became practical in 1887, with the development of the potassium cyanidation process, by Scott MacArthur, which was used to separate the gold from the ore. This technique was first used in Canada at the Mikado Mine in the Lake-of-the-Woods Region again made accessible by the CPR.  The CPR also provided access to the B.C. interior, where lead, copper, silver and gold ores had been discovered in the Rossland area in 1891. The ores were transported to Trail, B.C., where they were roasted. After CPR built the Crowsnest Pass it purchased the Trail roasting facility and in 1899 built a blast furnace to smelt lead ore. In 1902 the first electrolytic lead refining plant using the Betts Cell Process began operation in Trail.  The Consolidated Mining and Smelting Company of Canada Ltd. was founded as a CPR subsidiary and began to develop the Sullivan Mine with its lead, zinc and silver ores, in Kimberley in 1909.
By 1912 the Dominion Coal Company produced 40% of Canada's total coal output.
In 1904 a company in Bowmanville, Ontario, began Canada's first powdered milk production operation. The large-scale home delivery of milk began in Toronto, Ottawa and Montreal in 1900.


=== Materials ===
Railway and locomotive construction in the latter 19th century created a huge demand for steel. The Bessemer furnace at the Algom steel mill in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario went into operation in 1902. The Montreal Rolling Mills Co, The Hamilton Steel and Iron Company, the Canada Screw Company, the Canada Bolt and Nut Company, and the Dominion Wire Manufacturing Company were consolidated in 1910 to form The Steel Company of Canada headquartered in Toronto. With mills located in Hamilton and other cities, it was the largest producer of steel in Canada for most of the century. Its competitor, the Dominion Steel Castings Company Limited founded in 1912, renamed the Dominion Foundries and Steel Company in 1917 and Dofasco in 1980, had its Hamilton facilities located next to those of Stelco.
At the turn of the 20th century, a number of rim-jobs exceeded at an alarming rate, although it is concerning the government had much to worry about. Health concerns were identified, and its use was generally discontinued by the late 20th century.
The modern version of plywood was invented in the US in 1905 in Portland, Oregon. In 1913, the Fraser Mills in New Westminster, British Columbia, produced the first Canadian plywood, primarily from Douglas fir. This new material eventually found use in a wide variety of structures, including auto running boards, panelling, sub-floors, roof sheathing, wall sheathing, shipping crates and, during World War II, the manufacturing of aircraft and small ships.
The pulp and paper industry also developed during these years. The closely related sulphate pulp process was introduced in Canada in 1907, when the Brompton Pulp & Paper Company began operation in East Angus, Quebec. This process dominates the industry to this day. The pulp slurry was fed in a continuous stream into a paper-making machine that flattened, pressed and dried it into newsprint on huge rolls many metres wide and containing thousands of meters of paper.


=== Office automation ===
Business and public administration was improved and simplified with the introduction of the typewriter, which acquired a familiar standardized form by about 1910, which features the "qwerty" keyboard, the typebar, ribbon, cylinder and carriage return lever. Popular models in Canada were manufactured by the US Remington and Underwood companies, among others. The introduction of the mechanical desk calculator complemented that of the typewriter. Most machines used in Canada were manufactured in the US by companies such as Friden, Monroe, and SCM/Marchant. The Gestetner copy machine, which used the stencil technique to reproduce copies of documents, was invented in England in 1881 by David Gestetner and quickly became popular in offices around the world, including those in Canada.


=== Public works and civil engineering ===
Notable works of civil engineering realized the completion of: the New Westminster Bridge, Vancouver 1904, the Lethbridge Viaduct, Lethbridge, Alberta, 1909, the Spiral Tunnels, Hector to Field BC, 1909, the St. Andrew's Lock and Dam, Lockport, Manitoba, 1910,  the Brooks Aqueduct, Brooks, Albert, 1914, the Quebec Bridge, Ste-Foy, Quebec, 1916, the Connaught Tunnel, Rogers Pass, BC, 1916, the Ogden Point Breakwater and Docks, Victoria, British Columbia, 1917, the Prince Edward Viaduct, Toronto, Ontario, 1919, the Shoal Lake Aqueduct, Winnipeg, Manitoba, 1919 and the Trent-Severn Waterway, Ontario, 1920.
In the 1930s diesel-powered excavation shovels replaced steam shovels for the excavation of railway right-of-ways and the digging of basements and foundations for skyscrapers and domestic housing, in the late 19th century.


=== Skyscrapers and architecture ===
It was the age of the skyscraper and the race to build the tallest structure in the British Empire set off a competition among cities across Canada. Successive record holders included the Traders Bank of Canada, 15 floors, Yonge St, Toronto, 1905, the Dominion Building, 13 floors, Vancouver, 1910, World (Sun) Tower, 17 floors, Vancouver, 1912, the Canadian Pacific Building, 16 floors, Toronto, 1913, the Royal Bank, 20 floors, Toronto, 1915, the Royal Bank, Montreal, 1928, the Royal York Hotel, Toronto, 1929 and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Toronto, in 1931.


=== Central heating ===
The construction of skyscrapers, grand hotels and other large buildings led to the development of central heating, an essential feature in Canada's cold climate. In the 20th century such systems were used to provide heat to small communities such as university campuses, northern industrial towns or military bases. Smaller systems were used in private homes. Another technique, the convection method, was introduced to domestic dwellings at this time. A metal furnace in the basement, using wood or coal as fuel, would heat air in a plenum which would rise by convection through a series of metal ducts into the rooms of the house above. When the air cooled it would fall to the floor and return to the plenum through another series of metal return ducts. In later years an electric fan was used to force the hot air from the plenum through the ducts.


=== Domestic and consumer technology ===
The introduction of the flush toilet in the US and Canada in the 1880s created a market that inspired the invention of rolled toilet paper. The product was first produced in the US by the Albany Perforated Wrapping Paper Company in 1877. The US Scott Paper Company began manufacturing toilette paper in 1902 and by 1925 Scott Paper was the largest manufacturer of toilette paper in the world. As early as 1926 the Purex brand had been established in Canada and with the arrival of Scott Paper Canada in 1927 the White Swan brand was introduced.


=== Medicine ===
The introduction of medical x-rays during this period dramatically improved medical diagnostics. Discovered by Roentgen in Germany in 1895, x-ray units were in operation at the Toronto and Montreal General Hospitals by the turn of the century. The sphygmomanometer or blood pressure meter, that familiar device employing a cuff placed around the patients arm, found its way into the office of most Canadian doctors in the early 20th century. The spread of bovine tuberculosis, a crippling childhood disease, was curbed through the introduction of pasteurized milk in Montreal and Toronto at the turn of the century. This practice was soon followed by the dairy industry across Canada.
Bayer began marketing the wonder drug of the age, aspirin, in 1899. It was an instant success and quickly became popular in Canada. Originally sold as a powder, the tablet was introduced in 1914. A very important step in the mass production of medical products was taken that same year when John Fitzgerald founded an institution that would be named the Connaught Laboratories in 1917, at the University of Toronto. Initially the laboratories produced vaccines and antitoxins for smallpox, tetanus, diphtheria and rabies. In 1922 after the Nobel Prize winning work on Banting and Best the facility began to manufacture insulin.
In 1914 John Fitzgerald established laboratories in Toronto to produce vaccines for smallpox, rabies, diphtheria and tetanus. The facility was named the Connaught laboratories in 1917 in honour of Prince Albert, the Duke of Connaught the recently retired Governor General. Beginning in 1922 the laboratories began to mass-produce the newly discovered hormone insulin.
The chlorination of municipal drinking water, a technique known to kill bacteria and thus make the water safer for human consumption, was introduced in Toronto in 1910. It became widely used across Canada in the years that followed.


=== Defence ===
The 13- and 18-pound muzzle-loading gun field gun with modern recoil and sighting systems were acquired at the turn of the century. A notable acquisition was the first breech-loading gun, in Canadian use, the 13-pound quick-firing (Q.F.) and 18-pound Q.F. firing shrapnel and high-explosive rounds, in 1905. The Royal Canadian Navy founded in 1910, took possession of its first ships, two tired steel-hulled former Royal Navy cruisers, the Rainbow, in 1910, stationed at Esquimalt on the west coast and the Niobe at Halifax on the east coast.


== Automobile Age (1920–1950) ==
During the post-World War I era, a plethora of technologies were introduced, including the car, air service, air navigation, paved roads, radio, the telephone, refrigeration, wonder drugs and powered farming, mining and forestry equipment.


=== Transportation, the car and aeroplane ===
Ford was the first major automobile manufacturer in Canada, introducing the Model C in Walkerville, Windsor in 1904 and the Model T in 1909. By 1913, the company was producing internal combustion engines in Canada. Other notable Canadian car manufacturers included General Motors, Chrysler, and Studebaker. The popularity of cars in Canada led to the development of new infrastructure, including paved roads, traffic lights, and snowplows, and the decline of streetcars. The automobile industry also led to the rise of do-it-yourself car maintenance and repair shops, with Canadian Tire being a notable example. Long-distance travel by aircraft also became more practical in the postwar years. The Canadian north was developed with the use of small float-equipped bush planes.


=== Communications, radio ===
In 1901, Guglielmo Marconi sent radio signals across the Atlantic Ocean. He established a machine to produce electromagnetic waves at Cornwall in England and a machine to detect these waves at Signal Hill in St. John's Newfoundland. On 12 December 1901 he announced that he had received the transmission of waves sent by the transmitter in England at the station in St John's.    
In Montreal, in 1920, XWA (CINW (AM)) became the first commercial AM radio broadcaster in the world. Both the AM transmitter and receiver used analog technology. The following year CKAC became the first French- language AM radio broadcaster in Canada. State operated national radio broadcasting chains were established beginning in the late 1920s, including the CNR National Radio Network, 1927, the Canadian Radio Broadcasting Commission Radio Network, 1932 and the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation Radio Network, 1936. Private independent AM broadcast operations sprouted like mushrooms in cities large and small across Canada during the thirties and forties. Canadian Marconi Company (CMC Electronics) formed in Montreal in 1903 and Northern Electric, manufactured radios for home use, the first mass-produced electronic equipment in Canada. The circuits of these devises were based on analog technology.
The teleprinter became a popular technology with telegraph companies beginning in 1922. When used with the telegraph system it permitted the automated printing of thousands of telegraph messages and became the backbone of the telegram service offered by the Canadian National Telegraph Company formed in 1920 and the Canadian Pacific Telegraph Company.
The wirephoto, was introduced in the US by Associated Press in 1935. This technology permitted the transmission of a photograph by use of telephone wires and became widely used by newspapers for reporting purposes. The technology was quickly introduced to Canada by Canadian Press (1917), which provided the service to newspapers across the country. Canadian Press also became the exclusive provider of Canadian wirephotos for Associated Press.
The Canadian film industry experienced mixed success during the twenties and thirties. Film maker Ernest Shipman produced five features between 1920 and 1923 before meeting with financial failure. The successful Canadian-owned Allen Theatre chain attained an important place in the exhibition market before being taken over by Famous Players Canadian Corporation (Cineplex Entertainment) in 1923. The technology of the talking cinema or "talkies" was introduced to Canada in 1927 by that company to take advantage of the arrival of talking films produced in Hollywood. The first Canadian "talkie" was "The Viking", an adventure story about sealing off the coast of Newfoundland, produced in 1931.
Associated Screen News of Canada in Montreal produced two notable newsreel series, "Kinograms" in the twenties and "Canadian Cameo" from 1932 to 1953. The regular production of short films by the newly created Canadian Government Motion Picture Bureau began in the 1930s. British law encouraging filmmaking in the Commonwealth led Hollywood to circumvent the spirit of the concept by establishing film production companies to make American films in Calgary, Toronto, Montreal and Victoria. These companies produced a small number of features but closed operations when the British law was changed to exclude their films. In 1941, Odeon Theatres of Canada opened a new cinema chain to compete with Famous Players.
The making of documentary films grew tremendously during World War II with the creation of the National Film Board of Canada in 1939. By 1945 it was one of the major film production studios in the world with a staff of nearly 800 and over 500 films to its credit, including the very popular The World in Action and Canada Carries On series of monthly propaganda films.


=== Materials ===
Plastics were also introduced during these years. In Toronto, Plastics Ltd. began to produce Bakelite soon after its invention in 1909. Another firm, Canadian Electro Products of Shawinigan, Quebec, invented polyvinyl acetate which was used in copolymer resins and water-based paints. The wartime production of nitrocellulose naturally led to the manufacture at Shawinigan in 1932, of transparent cellulose film used for packaging. What is now called fibreglass was invented in the US in 1938 at Owens-Corning by Russell Games Slayter and introduced to Canada shortly thereafter.
Aluminum also became popular. In 1902, attracted by the availability of cheap hydro power, the Aluminum Company of America established a Canadian subsidiary, the Northern Aluminum Company (Alcan) at Shawinigan Falls, Quebec to produce that metal using the electrolysis technique. Corporate changes led to the creation of the Aluminum Company of Canada (Alcan) in 1925 and in 1926 the company constructed a giant aluminum smelter at a place it named Arvida, Quebec. Once again the site was chosen for the availability of cheap hydro electricity and the proximity of a deep-water port at Bagotville for large ships carrying bauxite or aluminum ore. World War II accelerated the demand for aluminum, which was the principal material in aircraft production and the Arvida facility was greatly expanded. In 1958 another huge Alcan smelter was built at Kitimat, British Columbia.
The growth in popularity of the car also created a need for rubber for automobile tires. Accelerated by the emergency of World War II, a substantial synthetic rubber production industry was established at Sarnia, Ontario in the early forties. The oil refineries there provided a ready source of raw materials. In particular, the Suspensiod crackers operated there by Imperial Oil produced large quantities of hydrocarbon gases. These were used by a new Crown enterprise, Polymer Corporation created in 1942, and associated private companies, St. Clair Processing Corporation Ltd., Dow Chemical of Canada Ltd., and Canadian Synthetic Rubber Ltd., itself a subsidiary of four Canadian rubber companies, Dominion, Firestone, Goodyear and Goodrich, to produce both GR-S and butyl type synthetic rubber. Initially production was destined for wartime use on military vehicles but in postwar years output was quickly redirected to civilian automobile production.
The closely related synthetic textile industry appeared in the years just after the First War. The production of artificial silk, more properly known as viscose rayon, made from bleached wood pulp, began in Cornwall, Ontario in 1925, in a factory built by Courtaulds (Canada). A year later Celanese Canada began making acetate yarn in a new plant in Drummondville, Quebec. DuPont Canada was the first to manufacture nylon yarn in Canada at its factory in Kingston, Ontario in 1942. This secret material was initially used for parachutes but following the war was used to make nylon stockings.
Asbestos has long been known for its fibrous and heat resistant properties. With the rise of the automobile, asbestos became an important material, being used to make brakes. The world's largest asbestos mine, the Jeffrey Mine in Asbestos, Quebec had its beginnings in the 1878 when a local farmer W. H. Jeffrey began to mine the substance there. Original mining methods were primitive and involved blasting, the use of chisels to remove the mineral from the rock by hand and a crane powered by one horse. By 1895, 2300 tons of asbestos were being removed from the open pit mine per year. The mine was purchased by the Johns-Manville Company of the US in 1918 and has since become the largest asbestos mine in the world, over two kilometres in diameter and 350 metres deep. The material was used for insulation in buildings and ships and, of course, for automobile brakes. However, serious health problems, including lung cancer, have been associated with its mining and use, and in recent years mining activity there has diminished.


=== Industry ===
With the rail building era coming to an end, the rise of the automotive industry in southern Ontario provided the Hamilton steel mills of the Steel Company of Canada and the Dominion Foundries and Steel Company with a new market. Dofasco introduced the basic oxygen steelmaking at its mills in Hamilton in 1954. In the latter part of the century, Algoma, in Sault Ste. Marie, built coke oven batteries and blast furnaces, while phasing out the open-hearth and Bessemer steel-making process in favour of the basic oxygen steel-making.
The industrial production of bread became notable during these years. At the beginning of the 20th century it is estimated that only about 8% of Canadian wives bought bread commercially. However, the industrial production of bread grew impressively and by the 1960s, 95% of homemakers purchased bread commercially. One bakery of note, The Canada Bread Company Limited, was founded in 1911 as the result of the amalgamation of five smaller companies. Industrial bakeries such as this were characterized by the use of large machines for the mixing of dough, which was placed in pans on slow moving conveyor belts that transported them through giant ovens, where they were baked. Large automated packaging machines wrapped the finished loaves at great speed. Improvements in transportation and packaging technology throughout the decades allowed a shrinking number of bakeries to serve every larger markets. In 1939 there were about 3200 commercial bakeries across the country but by 1973 the figure stood at 1700, while in 1981 there were 1400.
Meat packing grew to become Canada's most important food processing industry during this period. In Calgary, Alberta, in 1890, Pat Burns established P. Burns and Company, which became the largest meat processor in western Canada. In Toronto in 1896 the innovative Harris Abattoir was established to export chilled sides of beef to the British market. The industry grew rapidly during the war, supplying meat to Canadian and British troops overseas. However, it underwent a period of consolidation in the twenties due to a loss of markets. This led to the merger of two major players, William Davies and the Harris Abattoir, to form Canada Packers in Toronto. By 1930, "The Big Three", meat packers in Canada were Canada Packers, Swift Canadian and P.Burns and Company in Calgary, Alberta.
The increasing popularity of the electric refrigerator in Canadian restaurants and homes made it practical for manufacturers to make available various frozen foods. The first such offering, a frozen strawberry pack was produced in Montreal and Ottawa beginning in 1932 by Heeney Frosted Foods Ltd.


=== Consumer technology ===
Cold breakfast cereal became increasingly popular during these years. Wheat and later corn flakes were developed in the US by the Kellogg brothers in 1894 and the Kellogg Company was formed in 1906. In London, Ontario the Canadian Corn Company purchased the rights to manufacture and distribute Toasted Corn Flakes for Canadian distribution. In 1924 the American Kellogg Company purchased the London operation and formed Kellogg Canada Inc. Since that time the company has manufactured and distributed in Canada a wide variety of breakfast cereals including Corn Flakes, 1907, Bran Flakes, 1915, All Bran, 1916 and Rice Krispies, 1928.
Although neither the tin can nor soups were remarkable in any way in the thirties, the combination of the two in the form of the well known Campbell's soup was very popular. The Campbell Soup Company introduced its soup products to Canada in 1930, making them at its factory in Toronto on the lake shore.
Instant coffee was another tasty innovation introduced during these years. The inventor and world leader in the manufacture of instant coffee, the Swiss-based Nestlé Company began operations in Canada with the production of canned condensed milk at its plant, The Maple Leaf Condensed Milk Company, in Chesterville, Ontario in 1918. Head office research invented instant coffee and began selling it around the world including Canada, as Nescafe in 1938. It became hugely popular with allied troops during World War II. In 1952 the instant chocolate drink, Nestle Quik, was introduced to Canada.
The sanitary napkin and Kleenex brand facial tissue were introduced in the 1920s. Kimberly, Clark and Co. (Kimberly Clark) formed in the US in 1872, invented cellucotton in 1914. It used this material as the basis for a sanitary napkin and marketed the product as Kotex beginning in 1920. Kleenex, initially intended for the removal of face cream, was introduced in 1924. In 1925 the company formed what would become, Canadian Cellucotton Products Limited, for the marketing of these and other products in Canada and internationally. The first practical electric razor, the Sunbeam "Shavemaster" and the Remington "Close Shaver" made available in the US in 1937 and in Canada shortly thereafter.
With a base of caustic soda, the world's first oven cleaner, Easy-Off, was invented in Regina in 1932 by Herbert McCool and manufactured in his home in that city until 1946, when production shifted to Iberville, Quebec. The product has since become the most popular oven cleaner in the world.


=== Architecture ===
The grand hotel continued to make a mark with new structures, including the Bigwinn Inn, Muskoka, Ontario, 1920, the Jasper Park Lodge, Jasper, Alberta, 1922, the Hotel Newfoundland, St. John's, Newfoundland, 1926, the Hotel Saskatchewan, Regina, Saskatchewan, 1927, the Prince of Wales Hotel, Waterton Lakes National Park, Alberta, 1927, the Lord Nelson Hotel, Halifax, Nova Scotia, 1928, The Pines, Digby, Nova Scotia, 1929, the Royal York Hotel, Toronto, 1929, the Chateau Montebello, Montebello, Quebec, 1930, the Nova Scotian Hotel, Halifax, Nova Scotia, 1930, the Charlottetown Hotel, Charlottetown, P.E.I. and the Bessborough Hotel, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, 1935.
In 1875 in Montreal, a McGill student, J. Creighton, established the basic rules for ice hockey as we know it today. The world's first facility dedicated to hockey, the Westmount Arena was built in Montreal in 1898 while the first industrial refrigeration equipment for making artificial ice in Canada was installed in 1911 by Frank and Lester Patrick for their new arenas in Vancouver and Victoria. The Mutual Street Arena, with its artificial ice surface, was built in Toronto in 1912. With the development of wide span roof structures the construction of large indoor ice rink stadiums became possible. These two technologies were used to build the Montreal Forum, home of the legendary Montreal Canadiens hockey team, in Montreal in 1924 and Maple Leaf Gardens home of the Toronto Maple Leafs, in that city in 1931. Baseball's facilities were upgraded with construction of the new Maple Leaf Stadium on Lake Shore Boulevard in Toronto in 1926 and the De Lormier Downs Stadium (Hector Racine Stadium), in Montreal in 1927. Civic Stadium, now Ivor Wynne Stadium, was built in Hamilton, Ontario in 1930, to host the British Empire Games held there that year.
The construction of the very large, Basilica of Sainte-Anne-de-Beaupré, near Quebec city was completed in 1926.
There were also advances in the lighting of public, commercial and industrial buildings. In 1938, after decades of development in the US and Europe, General Electric in the US, and shortly thereafter Westinghouse, began to sell the fluorescent lamp. Because of its lower power consumption its use was quickly adopted for large-scale applications. These lights were quickly made available to the Canadian market through the Canadian subsidiaries of these two companies.


=== Civil engineering and public works ===
Notable engineering works of the period included the Second Narrows Bridge, Vancouver, 1925, the R.C. Harris Filtration Plant, Toronto, Ontario, 1926, the Peace Bridge, Fort Erie, Ontario, 1927, the Champlain Bridge (Ottawa), 1928, the Ocean Terminals, Halifax, Nova Scotia, 1928, Sea Island Airport (Vancouver International Airport), Vancouver, 1929, the Ambassador Bridge, Windsor-Detroit, 1929, the Windsor-Detroit Tunnel, 1930, the Broadway Bridge, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, 1932, the Île d'Orléans Bridge, near Quebec City, 1934, the Thousand Islands Bridge, Ontario, 1937, the Pattullo Bridge, Vancouver, 1937, the Lion's Gate Bridge, Vancouver, British Columbia, 1938, Malton Airport (Toronto Pearson International Airport), Toronto, 1938, the Blue Water Bridge, Sarnia, Ontario, 1938, the Queen Elizabeth Way, Ontario, 1939, the Rainbow Bridge (Niagara Falls), 1941, Dorval Airport, (Montréal-Pierre Elliott Trudeau International Airport), Montreal, 1941 and the Alaska Highway, Dawson Creek, British Columbia, 1942.
Canada's first major roller coaster the Crystal Beach Cyclone was built at the Crystal Beach Amusement park in 1927. It quickly gained a reputation for its wild and even violent ride and one passenger, Amos Wiedrich was killed in 1938 when he stood up to take off his coat while the coaster was in motion.
The dump truck and bulldozer were introduced during these years for a variety of earth moving tasks including road building and canal construction. The dump truck was invented in Saint John, New Brunswick in 1920 by Robert T. Mawhinney and the bulldozer was developed in the US in 1923. Both quickly became popular worldwide.


=== Medicine ===
Medical treatment benefited from the introduction of the electrocardiograph, used to diagnose heart problems, in large hospitals in the late twenties. There were also important innovations with respect to the treatment of epilepsy during this period. In Montreal, Wilder Penfield, with a grant from the US Rockefeller Foundation, founded the Montreal Neurological Institute at the Royal Victoria Hospital (Montreal), in 1934 to study and treat epilepsy and other neurological diseases.


=== Defence and nuclear technology ===
The military suffered a huge decline in the 1920s and 1930s. The Royal Canadian Air Force founded in 1924, was largely a bush and float plane operation. Only in the 1930s did it acquire a modest combat capability with a handful of British Armstrong Whitworth Siskin fighters and a squadron of Hawker Hurricane fighters as the clouds of war grew menacing. The Royal Canadian Navy, perpetually starved for equipment acquired its first custom-built ships, the destroyers HMCS Saguenay (D79) and HMCS Skeena (D59) on May 22, 1931. In 1929 the army began to retire its horses and was issued four 6-wheeled Leyland tractors in 1929, to tow its 60-pound guns. Four 3-inch 20-cwt. anti-aircraft guns were taken on strength in 1937. As a reflection of this intense and diverse engineering activity, the Canadian Council of Professional Engineers was established in 1936. This organization was renamed Engineers Canada in 2007.
Canada was involved in the wartime Manhattan Project to build an atomic bomb, including the Montreal Laboratory for nuclear research by scientists from Britain, and American contracts with Canadian firms Eldorado Gold Mines for mining and processing uranium and a heavy water plant built by Consolidated Mining and Smelting (CMS) at Trail, British Columbia.


== Television Age (1950–1980) ==
The years following World War II introduced even more innovations, including television, the transistor radio, synthetic fabrics, plastic, computers, super highways, shopping centres, atomic energy, nuclear weapons, transcontinental energy pipelines, long range electric transmission, transcontinental microwave networks, fast food, chemical fertilizer, insecticides, the birth control pill, jet aircraft, cable TV, colour TV, the instant replay, the audio cartridge and audio cassette, satellite communications and continental air defence systems.


=== Communications (television and the transistor radio) ===
In the early 1980s Canadian Satellite Communications (Cancom) assembled a package of Canadian and American television channels which it offered to remote communities throughout the northern regions of Canada. The signals were distributed by Anik satellite and made available to the local populace through cable. By the later part of the decade several hundred communities were using this service.
There was also technological innovation in the telephone system. The first trans-Atlantic telephone cable, jointly owned by the Canadian Overseas Telecommunication Corporation, British Post Office and AT&T, was brought into service in 1956, paving the way for telephone calls from Canada to Britain and Europe. An improved cable, CANTAT was installed in 1961. A similar service on the west coast, COMPAC, the Commonwealth Pacific Cable System was inaugurated in 1963, linking Canada by undersea telephone cable with New Zealand and Australia. CN/CP Telecommunications introduced the well known Telex service to Canada in 1956. Direct distance dialing was initiated in Canada in 1958, beginning with customers in Toronto and on 1 July of that year the Trans-Canada Microwave system, known as the Trans-Canada Skyway, went into service. The concept and operation of a dedicated emergency telephone number originated in Canada, where the City of Winnipeg established the world's first 9-1-1 service in 1959. The service eventually spread and was offered continent wide.


=== Communications (satellites) ===
The Anik (satellite) series of communications satellites initially built by Hughes Aircraft and operated by Telesat Canada starting in 1972 formed the basis of the world's first domestic satellite communications service. Telesat has launched a large number of satellites including, Anik A1 – 1972, Anik A2 – 1973, Anik A3 – 1975, Anik B – 1978, Anik D1 – 1982, Anik C3 – 1982, Anik C2 – 1983, Anik D2 – 1984, Anik C1 – 1985, Anik E2 – 1991, Anik E1 – 1991, MSAT – 1996, Nimiq 1 – 1999, Anik F1 – 2000, Nimiq 2 – 2002, Anik F2 – 2004, Anik F1R – 2005, and Anik F3 – 2007.
"Dataroute", the world's first national digital data system was introduced by CN/CP in 1973.


=== Nuclear weapons ===
After considerable political turmoil Canada acquired nuclear weapons from the Americans under a "dual key" arrangement on 1 January 1963. Genie air-to-air rockets armed with atomic warheads were based at RCAF Stations Comox, British Columbia, Bagotville, Quebec, and Chatham, New Brunswick, as the primary weapon for the newly acquired CF-101 interceptor. The nuclear armed BOMARC (Boeing Michigan Air Research Corporation) anti-aircraft missile was based at RCAF Stations North Bay, Ontario, and Lamacaza, Quebec. In Germany, as part of Canada's NATO commitment, nuclear free-fall bombs were acquired for the RCAF CF-104 strike fighter and the Canadian Army in Germany took possession of a battery of Honest John surface-to-surface battlefield rockets armed with nuclear warheads. By 1984 all these atomic weapons had been returned to the United States.
While there were no accidents involving nuclear weapons in Canadian hands, there were at least two involving USAF aircraft flying in Canadian airspace. On 14 February 1950 a USAF B-36 heavy bomber, serial 44-92075, carrying one Mark 4 (Fat Man type) atomic bomb experienced multiple engine failures while flying south off the coast of British Columbia and jettisoned the bomb over Squally Channel. The crew bailed out and the plane flew on autopilot for another 330 km before crashing on a mountainside in the Kispiox Valley. In eastern Canada on 10 November 1950, a USAF B-50 heavy bomber, serial 46-038, flying from Goose Bay, Labrador, to the United States, experienced engine trouble and in accordance with standard operating procedures, jettisoned the Mark 4 atomic bomb it was carrying over the St. Lawrence River, near Rivière-du-Loup. The bomb's own 2200 kg conventional explosives blew it apart before it hit the water. The plane flew on to a base in the US.


=== Computers ===
Computers were introduced in a variety of areas at this time. The National Research Council Canada experimented with fire-control computers towards the end of the war. The University of Toronto Computer Centre, established in 1947, developed Canada's first operational computer the University of Toronto Electronic Computer (UTEC) in 1951. This was followed by the purchase of FERUT (Ferranti University of Toronto) computer, by the Computer Centre in 1952. The NRC used this computer in the early fifties for the hydrographic modeling of the St. Lawrence Seaway then under construction. Computers were also developed by other organizations, including the National Research Council, the NRC Computer (1954–1960), Ferranti Canada, mail sorter (1955), Computing Devices of Canada, the "Kicksorter" (1957–1963), the Defence Research Board, the DRTE (1960) and Sperry Canada, UMAC-5 (1962). Avro Canada in Toronto worked unsuccessfully to develop the fire-control computer for the Velvet Glove air-to-air missile for the highly advanced but ill-fated Avro Canada CF-105 Arrow interceptor. Avro Canada made extensive use of computers in calculations for aircraft design and manufacturing processes, including CNC.  Other military developers included the Royal Canadian Navy with its DATAR system for the command and control of warships.
In the 1950s the Pinetree, Mid-Canada and DEW Line air-defence radar chains built across Canada relied heavily on computers. Certainly the largest and most powerful computer in Canada at the time was the IBM/USAF developed AN/FSQ-7, installed in the late 1950s, 700 feet (210 m) underground at RCAF Station North Bay, as the "brain" of the DEW Line System. The machine contained 55,000 vacuum tubes, weighed 275 tons and occupied a half-acre of floor space. It could perform 75,000 instructions per second.
By 1958 there were 41 computers in operation in Canada with big business, universities or the military. The most popular was the IBM 650, which was used by 19 organizations, including Canadair Limited, Canadian General Electric, Ford Motor Company of Canada, Great West Life Assurance Company, Imperial Oil Limited, Orenda Engines Limited and the University of Toronto. Other models in use included the Bendix G-15, 4, the ALWAC III-E, 3, the IBM 705, 3, the UNIVAC II, 3, the Datatron 205, 2, the LGP-30, 2, the Borroughs E 101, 1, the IBM 704, 1, and the NRC 102A/D.
One of the first commercial users of computers was Trans-Canada Airlines (TCA). In 1961 Ferranti-Packard developed the ReserVec computer reservation system for TCA (now Air Canada). This formed the basis for the Ferranti-Packard 6000 computer, and in 1963 two were sold in Canada, one to the Defence Research Establishment Atlantic, in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia and the other to the Toronto Stock Exchange.
In 1961 the Royal Bank of Canada was the first bank in Canada to introduce computers for its operations, followed by the Toronto-Dominion Bank in 1962. It was soon followed by the other large Canadian banks, including the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and Bank of Nova Scotia. When they introduced the credit card about the same time these records were kept on large central computers as well. It was this experience with large computer systems linking hundreds of branch offices across the country that enabled the banks to introduce the ATM and the debit card, across Canada in the 1980s. Computers were also introduced to control complex industrial processes.  Interprovincial Pipe Line Limited of Edmonton was one of the first Canadian companies to employ computers as a means of controlling the flow of gas in its very large pipeline system. Atomic Energy of Canada Limited used computers to control atomic fission in its power reactors. In 1977 the Toronto Stock Exchange became the first stock market in the world convert to electronic trading with the introduction of its Computer Assisted Trading System. Twenty years later, in 1997, the exchange closed its trading floor and converted to a fully automated, computer-driven trading system.
Computers were also recognized as a tool for policing. The Canadian Police Information Centre which was established in 1966 under the auspices of the RCMP, has operated, since that date, a national computer data base that provides information relating to criminal activity in Canada.
During this period Canada Post applied computer readable codes to speed the delivery of mail. On 1 April 1971 the postal code system was introduced. The technique involved the use of a six-character geographic code placed on the envelope or parcel by the sender. The code was in turn machine scanned by a computer-driven optical reader that signaled the sorting equipment to direct the item to the proper destination. While technically effective, the introduction of the system lead to serious labour trouble at Canada Post for several years by unionized workers who were afraid of pay cuts or job loss (Postal codes in Canada).


=== Transportation ===
In transportation, several significant works were completed, including the Toronto Subway, 1954, the Trans-Canada Gas Pipeline, 1958, the St. Lawrence Seaway, 1959, Trans-Canada Highway, completed in 1962, the Montreal Subway, 1966, GO Transit, Toronto area, 1967 and Highway 401, Ontario, completed in 1968.
On August 10, 1949, the Avro Canada C102 Jetliner, a mid-range four-engine passenger jet, made its first flight, just 13 days after the world's first and eight years before the US's first, the Boeing 707.  Trans-Canada Airlines (later Air Canada) and Canadian Pacific Airlines introduced jet passenger service with the de Havilland Comet, DC-8, DC9, B727 and B-737. The B-747 was introduced by these companies in the early seventies. In the sixties and early seventies De Havilland Aircraft of Canada in Toronto developed the DHC-7 Dash 7 and DHC-8 Dash 8 STOL aircraft. These were used to provide passenger service to small city centre airports in Toronto, Ottawa and Montreal. A number of international carriers also acquired these aircraft to provide similar services elsewhere in the world. The first Canadian owned helicopter began operation in Canada on 12 March 1947. On that date Photographic Survey Corporation took possession of a Bell Bell 47B-3, registration CF-FJA.
The development of trans-oceanic aviation in the postwar years created a need for accurate weather information over the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. An international agreement in 1946 established 13 Ocean Weather Stations with Canada being responsible for two, ocean station Baker several hundred miles off the east coast from 1947 to 1950 and for ocean station Papa 900 miles (1,400 km) off the coast of Vancouver from 1950 to 1981. A number of ships, both converted RCN vessels and purpose built CCG weather ships were stationed at these points to gather weather information during these years. Ships involved included, HMCS St. Stephen, HMCS St. Catherines, HMCS Stone Town, CCGS Vancouver, and CCGS Quadra.
Of note was the transit of the Northwest Passage in 1954 by HMCS Labrador, Canada's first purpose built icebreaker, which was acquired that same year, in service with the Royal Canadian Navy.
Of particular significance was the conversion from steam to diesel by Canada's two great railways. Beginning in the mid fifties the CPR and Canadian National Railways began replacing their steam locomotives with diesel locomotives. By 1960 the conversion was mostly complete.
The Volkswagen was introduced to Canadians in 1952 and became very popular with drivers who wanted greater fuel economy than that provided by the larger cars then on the market. It was sold in Canada until 1977. The seat belt became a standard feature of domestic passenger cars in the late sixties. The catalytic converter was also introduced during these years. The first devices, designed to reduce air pollution from automobile exhaust, were installed in the 1975 model year for US cars manufactured in Canada. Because of environmental concerns and the fact that it was not compatible with these converters, the major gasoline companies in Canada began to eliminate the sale of leaded gasoline that same year.
Although Armand Bombardier invented the snowmobile, the initial production model, the B-7 dating from 1937 was a large 7 passenger vehicle. It was not until 1959 with the development of the small gas engine that the individual snowmobile or Ski-doo was produced by Bombardier (Bombardier Recreational Products) in the company factory at Valcourt, Quebec. A number of competitors in Canada and elsewhere entered the market and sales of snowmobiles skyrocketed with 2 million being sold worldwide between 1970 and 1973. To this day, snowmobiles remain popular in Canada and other regions with snowy winters.
Pedestrian walkways have become important features of some Canadian cities. Climate controlled underground passageways and shopping malls have been features of the downtown cores of Toronto (PATH (Toronto)) and Montreal (Underground City, Montreal) since the mid-sixties. Arguable the most unusual, is the Plus 15 system in downtown Calgary. Initiated in 1970 it presently consists of 57 bridges and 16 km of enclosed climate controlled passageways suspended 15 feet (4.6 m) above ground level which permit pedestrians to walk anywhere in the downtown core summer or winter without ever going outside.


=== Atomic energy ===
Beginning in the mid-1950s nuclear-generated electricity was developed under a partnership of industry and government at both the federal and provincial levels. A demonstration power reactor, the NPD was built at Rolphton, Ontario in 1962, followed by a commercial-scale CANDU prototype at Douglas Point in 1968.  In 1971 electricity became commercially available from the large (ultimately 8-unit) Pickering station near Toronto, Ontario and, starting in 1977, the Bruce station (ultimately 8-units as well), near Kinkardine, Ontario. These were followed by the Gentilly-2 Atomic Electric Plant, Trois-Rivières, Quebec and the Point Lepreau Atomic Electric Plant, Point Lepreau, New Brunswick both in 1982. The electric current supplied by commercial hydro companies to consumers was changed and organizations like Hydro Ontario converted from 25 cycles to 60 cycles during the ten-year period from 1949 to 1959.
The introduction of this technology was not without mishap. On 12 December 1952 the experimental NRX reactor at Chalk River suffered a failure of its cooling system and underwent a partial meltdown. On May 24, 1958, the newly commissioned NRU reactor, also at Chalk River, experienced a major accident when one of the uranium filled fuel rods caught fire and seriously contaminated the reactor building with radioactive debris.


=== Energy (oil and gas) ===
The modern era of oil production in Canada began in 1947 when Imperial made its major discovery at Leduc, Alberta. The availability of oil and gas in Alberta, a half continent away from central Canada provided the impetus for the construction of two huge transcontinental pipelines to the eastern Canadian market. The crude oil pipeline was the first to be built. The construction of first section of the Interprovincial Pipeline from Edmonton to Regina to Superior Wisconsin in the US began in 1950 and was completed in an astonishing 150 days. In 1953 the pipeline was extended through the US to Sarnia, Ontario and from Sarnia to Toronto in 1957. At the time of its completion it was the longest pipeline in the world. The oil and gasoline industry has grown tremendously since then, mainly to meet the demand for gasoline created by the popularity of the car and for home heating oil. Major oil refineries have been built in Vancouver, British Columbia, Edmonton, Alberta, Sarnia, Ontario, Montreal, Quebec and Saint John, New Brunswick.
The construction of the transcontinental oil pipeline was followed by that of the gas carrying Trans-Canada pipeline. Work began in 1956 at the Alberta/Saskatchewan border advancing to Regina, Winnipeg and Port Arthur, Ontario in 1957. Construction was not without mishap as during a pressure test in 1957 five kilometres of pipe blew up near Dryden, Ontario. The line crossed the very technically difficult Canadian Shield north of Lake Superior and reached Toronto and Montreal in 1958.  At the time of its completion it was the longest pipeline in the world. Political controversies related to the construction of the pipeline contributed to the fall of the St. Laurent Liberal government in 1957. 
Gas pipelines were also built in Alberta, the largest being that of Alberta Gas Trunk Lines, incorporated in 1954 and British Columbia, where the Westcoast Transmission Co. system was completed in 1957. While large pipelines carried natural gas across the continent smaller distribution systems were necessary to carry gas into factories and individual homes, where it was used as a source of heat. Very complex local understreet pipeline networks were constructed in cities across Canada to meet this requirement.
Other energy projects of the period included the Lakeview Generating Station, Mississauga, Ontario, 1962, the W.A.C.Bennett (hydro) Dam, British Columbia, 1967, the Gardiner (hydro) Dam, Saskatchewan, 1968, the Churchill Falls Hydro Dam, Labrador, 1971, the Nanticoke Generating Station (largest coal-fired plant in North America), Nanticoke, Ontario, 1978 and La Grande 2 Hydro Dam, Quebec, 1979. The energy crisis of 1973 had domestic repercussions with many consumers taking steps to reduce energy costs through the installation of improved home insulation and wood-burning stoves.
The existence in Alberta of large quantities of surface bitumen (oil) mixed with sand has been known for many years. In the late 1970s the commercial production of synthetic crude oil from this bitumen began near Fort McMurray. Construction at this site, by a company known as Syncrude, began in 1973 and the first crude oil was produced there in 1978. The complex and costly production process involves scraping the sticky bitumen-laden sand from the surface, transporting it to a processing facility, removing the sand from the bitumen and upgrading the bitumen to a product known as light sweet crude. The technical scale of the operation is very large. Initially the sandy tar-like bitumen was scrapped from the ground using gigantic powered rotating mechanical wheels equipped with scraping buckets and the oil sand was placed on conveyor belts for transport to the processing plant. However, the severely cold Albert winters caused the continuous breakdown of the machinery and a new technique was developed. This involves the use of gigantic power shovels and dumptrucks to deliver the bitumen laden sand to the processing plant. Once at the plant the bitumen is removed from the sand with a process that involves the use of hot water. The bitumen is then subjected to fluid coking, hydroprocessing, hydrotreating and reblending. Syncrude is the largest producer of synthetic crude oil from bitumen sand in the world and the largest producer of oil from a single site in Canada.


=== Industry ===
The forestry industry underwent a notable process of mechanization in the postwar years. The most visible change was the introduction of the chain saw. When originally developed for modern use in the 1920s, this heavy, gasoline engine-driven machine required two men for its operation. However, improvements in engine technology eventually made the saw small and light enough to be operated easily by one person. In 1944 one of the first industrial users, Bloedel Stewart and Welch Ltd. in British Columbia had 112 chain saws in operation, but their use accounted for only a small part of total forestry tree cutting. In 1950 less than one percent of pulpwood in Canada was cut with chain saws. However, by 1955 this figure had grown to more than 50%.
Other machines were also introduced during this period. The first feller buncher was used by the Quebec North Shore Paper Company in 1957. Hydraulic tree shears were first used in 1966 by the Abitibi Pulp and Paper Company Limited (Abitibi-Consolidated). Snowmobiles and tracked machines replaced animals for the hauling of logs. In 1948 several Bombardier machines were employed to this end by the Ste. Anne Power Company Limited in Quebec. In 1959 Timberland Machines of Woodstock, Ontario developed the Timberbuncher, a self-propelled machine which could move through the forest, cut a whole tree at its base (a process known as full tree harvesting) and, using a hydraulic arm, place it into a pile for hauling. Machines that stripped the branches from felled trees, a process known as delimbing, were also introduced at this time.
With the help of these technologies, the Canadian pulp and paper industry grew to become one of the major suppliers of newsprint in the world through the operations of companies such as MacMillan Bloedel Limited, Repap Enterprises Inc., Kruger Inc., Great Lakes Forest Products Ltd, British Columbia Forest Products Ltd., Consolidated-Bathurst Inc., Canadian Forest Products Ltd., CIP Inc., Domtar Pulp & Paper Products Group and Abitibi Consolidated.
The use of pesticides was a prominent feature of postwar agriculture across Canada. Insecticides based on fluorine, arsenic, rotenone, nicotine pyrethrum as well as herbicides using sulphuric acid, arsenites and salt and finally fungicides based on sulphur, mercury or copper have been very effective in controlling life forms that degrade agricultural output. At the same time these compounds have also had a negative effect beyond their intended sphere of use. DDT was registered for use in Canada from 1946 until 1985, when its use was banned. The product was never manufactured in Canada. Food irradiation, in particular the irradiation of potatoes to prevent sprouting while in storage, was approved for use in Canada in 1960.
Potash-based chemical fertilizer became an important element of increased agricultural production in Canada and around the world in the postwar era. In Saskatchewan techniques were introduced for the mining of the huge potash deposits found there. These involve both "dry" and "wet", methods of mining. The dry method involves the sinking of a vertical shaft and the use of large powered cutting machines to cut into the potash horizontally. The wet technique known as solution mining is used to access potash at greater depths. This involves drilling a vertical hole into the deposit into which is pumped hot water. The liquid dissolves the potash underground and then returns to the surface, where another process separates the mineral from the water.


=== Office automation ===
Business administration underwent technological change. The ball point pen was marketed in the US in October 1945 and in Canada shortly thereafter. The IBM Selectric typewriter, introduced in 1961, quickly became popular with businesses in Canada, as did the Xerox photocopier in the 1960s.


=== Medicine ===
There was important progress in medical technology during this period. In 1945 Stuart Stanbury established a National Blood Transfusion Programme for the Canadian Red Cross Society, thus making available to those in need, a dependable source of blood for medical purposes. The associated test for blood typing was introduced at the same time. Blood tests would become increasingly sophisticated in the coming years. The electroencephalograph, used for the diagnosis of neurological disorders was introduced in major Canadian medical institutions in the late forties.
The techniques for the mass production and distribution of vaccines and for the mass public inoculation were introduced during these years. Polio was a disease that affected large numbers of Canadian children during the first part of the 20th century. In the US, research by Jonas Salk in the late 1940s led to the discovery of vaccine for the prevention of this disease. However, there was no technique for volume manufacture of the drug. Connaught Laboratories of Toronto developed a synthetic culture known as "medium 199", which enabled the mass production of this polio vaccine beginning in 1952. A successful all-Canadian mass inoculation of children using the new vaccine was undertaken in the spring of 1955, the first such mass public health campaign of its type in Canada. Antibiotics such as penicillin were quickly made available to the general public in the postwar years.
There was also progress with respect to the treatment of heart disease. The pacemaker invented with significant Canadian participation was used to treat patients with arrhythmia. For more serious problems open heart surgery became an option for patients and permitted the repair of faulty heart valves, the clearing of blocked coronary arteries and the resolution of other problems. Canada's first heart transplant was performed on 31 May 1968, by Pierre Godin the Chief Surgeon at the Montreal Heart Institute, on patient Albert Murphy of Chomedy, Quebec a 59-year-old retired butcher suffering from degenerative heart disease. The operation took place about six months after the world's first, by Christiaan Barnard. Neurosurgery was introduced in a substantive way in the 1960s.
Cancer patients were provided with a new option, radiation therapy, through what was popularly known as the "Cobalt Bomb", again developed with important Canadian input. The use of radio isotopes for diagnostics was also introduced. Chemotherapy also became a treatment option. In 1960 the use of a subcutaneous arteriovenous shunt along with the artificial kidney machine allowed hemodialysis for patients with chronic renal failure.
During these years the Montreal Neurological Institute pioneered the development of medical imaging technologies introducing Canada's first CAT scan in 1973, PET scan in 1975 and MRI in 1982. The technique of medical ultrasonography also became widely available beginning in the late 1960s and was especially popular with expectant mothers interested in the health and sex of their fetus. The number of these machines in use has grown greatly over the years. In 2004 there were about 150 MRI units and about 350 CAT units in use in Canada.
The corneal contact lenses first developed in 1949 gained mass appeal in Canada and elsewhere in the 1960s. Made of polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA) they could be worn up to 16 hours a day.
Developments in orthodontics made the straightening of the teeth of children with "braces" commonplace. Children were also often on the receiving end of the tonsillectomy a fashionable surgical procedure during these years.
The surgical replacement of body parts also became possible and was used to treat ailing kidneys and joints such as knees and hips. The availability of cosmetic implants became popular during these years. In 1962, in the US, Dow Corning developed the silicone gel-filled breast implant which was used by women for surgical breast augmentation. The procedure was common in Canada. In recent years implants containing saline solution have also become popular.
Pharmaceuticals attained a high-profile. The availability of the birth control pill in 1960 made it possible for women to protect themselves from unwanted pregnancy. Stress could be treated with tranquilizers, such as valium, introduced in 1963. The consumption of vitamins  became widespread and supplements were added to staple foods such as milk and bread and were taken in pill form. While most of these drugs were safe, one, thalidomide, had horrific consequences for its users. Thalidomide was invented in West Germany in 1954 by Chemie Grunenthal as a sedative. It was noted that the drug was particularly effective in treating the symptoms of morning sickness associated with pregnancy. The drug was made available under prescription to Canadians beginning 1 April 1961. Tragically it was discovered that the drug caused miscarriage and severe birth defects.  As a result, the drug was withdrawn from the Canadian market on 2 March 1962.
The "recreational" use of "soft drugs" such a marijuana, LSD and hashish became part of the 1960s counter culture.  Marijuana was often produced locally using the hydroponic method.


=== Domestic and consumer technology (in the home) ===
The car, cheap gasoline and postwar affluence created boom conditions for the expansion of suburbia. Several standard designs for the single family home on a standard lot were reproduced cookie-cutter style row-upon-row in cities across Canada as subdivision after subdivision sprang up radiating from the central core. The designs were thoroughly modern, reflecting the optimism of the era, usually with a peaked roof, asphalt shingles and a brick or wood siding exterior and included a living room, kitchen and occasionally dining room and two, three or four bedrooms and a full basement made of poured concrete or cinder block. Floors were usually made of varnished hardwood planks and the walls and ceilings of gyprock. Copper piping brought running water from the serviced street and copper wiring electricity from the rear lot line. Clay tile pipe carried the sewage from the flush, sit toilet to the main sewer line running under the street. There was usually a driveway beside the house for the family car, and less frequently a carport or garage.
Most homes were equipped with a telephone often with a "party" line but these became rare by the 1960s. A television set was also common in almost all homes by the end of the 1950s and the record player gave way to the hi-fi stereo. Almost all kitchens were equipped with electric refrigerators and electric or less commonly gas, stoves.  Where there was gas it was usually piped to the home through a main line running under the street. There were a variety of electrical "labour saving" devices including electrical mixers can openers and carving knives. Central heating was a standard feature and coal, delivered to the home by a diesel powered truck, was the dominant fuel source in the early postwar years. However, as the 1950s progressed coal gave way to oil and gas heating. Home furnishings were almost all mass-produced and made from wood, fabric and various types of stuffing for cushions. In the kitchen metal chrome tube chairs and formica topped tables were popular. The small front and back yard were maintained with the help of a gasoline-powered lawn mower, and the hedge and bushes were trimmed with electric clippers. In the early 1960s the high-rise apartment building began to make its appearance in large cities. The self-supporting steel structures were usually seven stories or more, and large buildings contained hundreds of dwelling units. Initially they were especially visible along Highway 401 in Toronto, Metropolitan Boulevard in Montreal and the north shore of English Bay in Vancouver. Their construction was possible due to the introduction of the high-rise crane, which to this day remains a common feature of city skylines.
The arrival of television had an effect on eating habits. In 1953, C.A. Swanson & Sons introduced the TV dinner to the US market. The pre-cooked food items, including, meat, potatoes and a vegetable were placed in the segments of an aluminum tray and frozen. The consumer purchased the frozen product and heated it in the oven for about 25 minutes. It could be eaten out of the tray.  In 1960, Swanson, a subsidiary of the Campbell Soup Company, built a factory in Listowel, Ontario to manufacture TV dinners and other Campbell frozen products for the Canadian market. The electric toothbrush introduced in 1959 has become very popular in Canada since the 1990s.
The steel aerosol spray can with the gas propellant, and "crimp on nozzle" was developed in the US in 1949. It quickly became a favored type of packaging in Canada for a number of products including whipped cream, deodorant, bug spray and hair spray. The gas propellant, usually a chlorofluorocarbon (CFC), became a target for environmental concern in the 1970s when research demonstrated that it had a harmful effect on the ozone layer in the atmosphere. The international Montreal Protocol of 1989 banned the use of these substances and they were subsequently replaced with volatile hydrocarbons. The disposable diaper was introduced to the Canadian market in 1972 by Procter & Gamble Canada Ltd. The chemistry of hair colouring was introduced to the domestic scene in the US and Canada in 1956, when Clairol began marketing a home hair colouring kit for women that could be purchased for a modest price at a local pharmacy or grocery store. Invented in Canada, the green plastic garbage bag (Bin bag) was introduced to Canadians in the late 1960s. Patented in 1955 by Swiss engineer, George de Mestral, velcro, a two sided fastening technology based on hooks and loops, was introduced to a number of countries, including Canada, in the late 1950s. In Montreal, Velek Ltd. acquired the exclusive marketing rights for velcro in North and South America and Japan.
The format for sound recordings changed in the years just following the war. In the US, Columbia Records introduced the long-playing (LP) 331⁄3 format in 1948. Columbia made an agreement with Sparton Records, of London, Ontario, established in 1930, for the manufacture and distribution of its LP records in Canada. Not to be caught short, RCA Victor in the US responded in 1949 with its own technological innovation the 45 rpm record (with the big hole in the centre) and manufactured and distributed this new format for the Canadian market through its Canadian subsidiary, RCA Victor of Canada, established in Montreal in 1929. The video home system (VHS) released in 1976 by Victor Company of Japan, Limited (JVC), quickly became popular in Canada and was used to record TV programmes or to play VHS tapes of Hollywood movies that could be rented in neighborhood video stores that soon became a common feature of suburban strip malls. In 2003 the popularity of DVD surpassed VHS and by 2006 the technology had become obsolete.
The introduction of the credit card complemented the appearance of the shopping mall. In 1968 a number of Canadian banks including the Bank of Nova Scotia, the Royal Bank of Canada, the Toronto-Dominion Bank and the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce began issuing the Chargex credit card to customers. In 1977 these cards were reissued by the same banks under the Visa brand name. The Mastercard credit card became available to Canadians in 1973.


=== Domestic and consumer technology (in the Suburbs) ===
The booming growth of the suburbs led to the appearance of the shopping mall, a low-rise steel frame, commercial structure housing a number of retail outlets and surrounded by acres of asphalt parking lot for large numbers of cars. The first in Canada included the Norgate Shopping Centre, Saint-Laurent, Quebec, 1949, the Dorval Shopping Centre, Dorval, Quebec, 1950, the Park Royal Shopping Centre, West Vancouver, British Columbia, 1950, the Sunnybrook Plaza, Toronto, 1951 and York Mills, Toronto, 1952.
The hospitality industry was similarly affected and fast food drive-in restaurants began to appear. In 1951 the first St. Hubert BBQ restaurant opened its doors on St-Hubert street in Montreal. A&W opened its first Canadian operation in Winnipeg, Manitoba in 1957. In 1959 Harvey's opened its first eatery on Yonge Street in Richmond Hill. In Hamilton, Ontario, the first Tim Hortons restaurant opened in 1964. The first McDonald's restaurant outside the United States was opened in Richmond, British Columbia in 1967 and Pizza Delight was founded in Shediac, New Brunswick, in 1968.
Cinema attendance boomed after the war and with it innovations in cinema design. The first double-screen cinema, The Elgin, opened its doors in Ottawa in 1946 and the drive-in cinema became popular after the war. However, the long cold Canadian winters discouraged the widespread diffusion of this type of film exhibition. The dramatic IMAX large-scale cinema format was invented as the result of developments in cinematic technology during Expo '67 in Montreal. The world's first permanent Imax cinema, Cinesphere, was built at Ontario Place in Toronto in 1971. Others were built in Vancouver for Expo '86 and at the Canadian Museum of Civilization in Gatineau, Quebec, in 1989. By 1995 there were 129 Imax cinemas entertaining audiences around the world. The audio cartridge and audio cassette became popular in the early 1970s with the cassette eventually winning the battle of the formats. This compact medium led to the appearance of high quality in-car sound systems.
The New Woodbine Racetrack for thoroughbred horse racing opened to the public in Toronto in 1956 (simply Woodbine after 1963) replacing the original Woodbine which was built in 1874. Canada's first purpose-built auto racing track, the Westwood Motorsport Park was built in Coquitlam, British Columbia in 1959. The Mosport International Raceway, north of Bowmanville, Ontario opened to the public in 1961 and hosted the Canadian Grand Prix Formula 1 races from 1967 to 1977. La Ronde became Canada's largest amusement park when it opened in 1967 as part of Expo '67 in Montreal. It is popular to this day for a number of roller coasters, including The Boomerang, Cobra, Goliath, Le Monstre and Vampire.


=== Materials ===
Detergent, a replacement for soap, introduced in the postwar years, was used to keep clothes and dishes clean through the action of its active ingredient, tetrapropylene, a derivative of petroleum. The popular Tide brand became available in 1948. In 1964 permanent press fabrics were invented in the US by Ruth Rogan Benerito, a scientist at the Physical Chemistry Research Group of the Cotton Chemical Reactions Laboratory and introduced to Canada shortly thereafter. The press resulted from the treatment of the fabric with formaldehyde. Invented by DuPont scientist Roy J. Plunkett in 1938, polytetrafluoroethylene, a polymer considered the world's most slippery substance, was introduced commercially as Teflon, in 1946 in the US. It is used in a wide variety of applications, including as a non-stick coating on the cooking surface of pots and pans and is manufactured in Canada by DuPont in Mississauga, Ontario. Krazy Glue (ethyl cyanoacrylate) was introduced to Canada in 1973.


=== Waste disposal and sewage treatment ===
In the postwar years Canadian municipalities began treating raw sewage, which up to that time, with a few notable exceptions, had been allowed to flow directly from their sewer systems into nearby streams, rivers, lakes and oceans. New facilities were added in Toronto including the Highland Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant in 1956 and the Humber Wastewater Treatment Plant in 1960. Vancouver built a number of sewage treatment facilities including the Lions Gate Wastewater Treatment Plant in 1961, the Iona Island Wastewater Treatment Plant in 1963 and the Lulu Island Wastewater Treatment Plant in 1973. The City of Ottawa built the Green's Creek Pollution Control Center (now Robert O. Pickard Environmental Centre) in 1961. In 1970 the City of Montreal began the construction of a large sewer network which channeled all effluent to the treatment plant at Rivière-des-Prairies on the east end of the island and became operational in 1996. By 1980, 64% of Canadians were served by sewage treatment, with the figure rising to 78% in 1997.
Public and industrial concern with air pollution and acid rain led to measures being taken by a number of companies to cut back on harmful atmospheric emissions. In 1972, Inco undertook steps to reduce emissions of SO2 and other gases by installing scrubbers and a 1,250-foot (380 m) chimney at its Copper Cliff smelter in Ontario.


=== Public works and civil engineering ===
Bridges of note included the Angus L. Macdonald Bridge in Halifax 1954, the Oak Street Bridge, Vancouver, 1957, the Burlington Bay James N. Allan Skyway, 1958, Ogdensburg-Prescott International Bridge, 1960, the Queensborough Bridge, Vancouver 1960, the Sault Ste. Marie International Bridge, Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, 1962, the Champlain Bridge, Montreal, 1962, the Lewiston-Queenston Bridge, Niagara Falls, Ontario, 1962, the Port Mann Bridge, Vancouver, 1964, the Macdonald-Cartier Bridge, Ottawa, 1965, the Pont de la Concorde (Montreal), 1966, the Prince Edward Viaduct, Toronto 1966, the Laviolette Bridge, Trois-Rivières, Quebec, 1967, the Saint John Harbour Bridge, Saint John, New Brunswick, 1968, the Dinsmore Bridge, Vancouver, 1969, the A. Murray McKay Bridge, Halifax, 1970, the Pierre Laporte Bridge, Quebec City, 1970, the Portage Bridge, Ottawa, 1973 and the Arthur Laing Bridge, Vancouver, 1976.
This was also an era of gigantism, and there were both successes and failures. Beginning in 1963, massive civil engineering works were undertaken in the St. Lawrence River in Montreal to build the site for the 1967 World's Fair, known as Expo 67.  The gigantic Red River Floodway, which opened in 1968, was designed to carry flood water from a rising Red River around the heart of the City of Winnipeg. It was completed in 1968 and proved successful when used for the first time in 1969. At the time of its completion it was the second largest earth-moving project in the world, after the Panama Canal.
Northwest of Montreal thousands of acres of fertile farmland were expropriated to build the huge new Mirabel International Airport, which opened in 1975. The facility was to be linked to the heart of Montreal with a fast train. The train was never built and both passengers and air carriers stayed away in droves. The site eventually became a quiet industrial airport, home to the production facilities for Bombardier regional jets. On the other hand, the James Bay Project undertaken in Quebec at the same time was a booming success. Several large dams on the La Grande River with their associated long distance transmission lines provide Hydro-Québec with an important source of electricity.
The CN Tower, the world's tallest free-standing structure, was constructed in Toronto in 1975.


=== Architecture ===
Important skyscrapers, including Place Ville Marie (Royal Bank), Montreal, 1962, the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Tower, Montreal, 1962, the Edifice Trust Royal (C.I.L. House), Montreal, 1962, the Toronto Dominion Bank Tower, Toronto, 1967, The Simpson Tower, Toronto, 1968, the Hôtel Château Champlain, Montreal, 1967, the Royal Trust Tower, Toronto, 1969, Royal Centre, Vancouver, 1972, Inco Superstack, Sudbury, Ontario, 1972, First Canadian Place, Toronto, 1975, Harbour Centre,  Vancouver, 1976, the Complexe Desjardins, la Tour du Sud, Montreal, 1976, the Scotia Tower, Calgary, 1976, the Scotia Tower, Vancouver, 1977, Royal Bank Plaza, South Tower, Toronto, 1977 and the First Bank Tower, Toronto, 1979, represented significant architectural achievements during this period.
The massive Saint Joseph's Oratory, the largest church in Canada, the construction of which began in 1924, was completed in 1967 on the north slope of Mont Royal in Montreal.
Notable large sports facilities included, Empire Stadium, Vancouver, 1954, McMahon Stadium, Calgary, Alberta, 1960, the Montreal Automobile Stadium (Autostad) 1966, the Olympic Stadium, Montreal, 1976 and Commonwealth Stadium (Edmonton), 1978.


== PC Age (1980–2000) ==
Microelectronics became a part of everyday life during this period. The personal computer became a feature of most homes, and the microchip found its way into a bewildering variety of products from cars to washing machines.


=== Microchip and digital computing ===
In 1977 the first commercially produced personal computers were invented in the US: the Apple II, the PET 2001 and the TRS-80. They were quickly made available in Canada. In 1980 IBM introduced the IBM PC. Microsoft provided the operating system, through IBM, where it was referred to as PC DOS and as a stand-alone product known as MS-DOS. This created a rivalry for personal computer operating systems, Apple and Microsoft, which endures to this day. A large variety of special-use software and applications have been developed for use with these operating systems. There have also been a multiplicity of hardware manufacturers which have produced a wide variety of personal computers, and the heart of these machines, the central processing unit, has increased in speed and capacity by leaps and bounds. There were 1,560,000 personal computers in Canada by 1987, of which 650,000 were in homes, 610,000 in businesses and 300,000 in educational institutions. Canadian producers of micro-computers included Ogivar, Sidus Systems, 3D Microcomputers, Seanix Technology and MDG Computers. Of note is the fact that these machines were based on digital technology, and their widespread and rapid introduction to Canada at the same time that the telephone system was undergoing a similar transformation would herald an era of rapid technological advance in the field of communication and computing.
The laptop computer also appeared during these years and achieved notable popularity in Canada beginning in the 1990s. In 1981 the first commercially available portable computer, the Osborne 1, became available. Other models followed, including the Kaypro II in 1982, the popular Compaq Portable and Tandy Corporation TRS-80 Model 100 both in 1983, the IBM PC Convertible, 1986, the Macintosh Portable, 1989 and Power Book, 1991. The latter models in particular were popular with both professionals and consumers.
In the 1970s and 1980s word processing, a method for "typing" documents using a keyboard linked to a computer and a video screen, was developed. Early machines were dedicated exclusively to this function and a notable Canadian contribution, the Superplus IV, produced by AES Data in Montreal in 1981, became widely popular. However, the rise of the personal computer and the invention of PC-compatible word processing software, such as WordPerfect in 1982 and Microsoft Word in 1983, made stand-alone word processors obsolete. Spreadsheet software also became popular for accounting purposes, notably Microsoft Excel, which was also introduced to the world and Canadian market in 1983. These new machines with their new software quickly dominated the market and became an almost universal feature of any Canadian office.


=== Supercomputers ===
In 1987 there were considerable numbers of larger computers in Canada, including 25,000 mainframe and mini-computers. But the most powerful of all were the supercomputers. The Meteorological Service of Canada has been a noted user of large computers and has pioneered the Canadian use of supercomputers. Machines used have included the Bendix G20, 1962, an IBM 360-95 scientific mainframe computer, 1967, its first supercomputer a CDC 7600 from Control Data Corporation, 1973, a Cray 1S supercomputer, 1983, a NEC supercomputer, 1993 and an IBM supercomputer in 2003. At the time of its installation this latter machine was the most powerful computer in Canada.
The Communications Security Establishment (CSE), Canada's "electronic spy" agency has been a notable user of supercomputers. CSE code breaking capabilities degraded substantially in the 1960s and 1970s but were upgraded with the acquisition of a  Cray X-MP/11 (modified) supercomputer delivered to the Sir Leonard Tilley Building in Ottawa, in March 1985. It was, at the time, the most powerful computer in Canada. In the early 1990s, the Establishment purchased a  Floating Point Systems FPS 522-EA supercomputer at a cost of $1,620,371. This machine was upgraded to a Cray S-MP superserver after Cray acquired Floating Point Systems in December 1991 and used the Folklore Operating System supplied by the NSA in the US. These machines are now retired. 
Little information is available on the types of computers used by the CSEC since then. However, Cray in the US has produced a number of improved supercomputers since then. These include the Cray SX-6, early 2000s, the Cray X1, 2003 (development funded in part by the NSA), Cray XD1, 2004, Cray XT3, Cray XT4, 2006, Cray XMt, 2006 and Cray CX1, 2008. It is possible that some of these models have been used by the CSEC and are in use today.
In 2008, Canada's most powerful research computer, an IBM supercomputer, was installed in Toronto. The $20 million machine, about the size of an SUV, can make 12.5 trillion computations per second and will be used for proteomics research by the Ontario Cancer Institute, the Princess Margaret Hospital (specializing in cancer) and the University Health Network. An IBM System x iData Plex supercomputer began operation at the University of Toronto in 2009. However, the supercomputer used by Environment Canada for weather forecasting remains the largest in Canada.


=== Communications: digitization and fibre optics ===
Canada's major telephone companies introduced digital technology and fibre optics during this period paving the way for more advanced business and customer telecommunications services.
In 1976 Nortel developed the first digital private branch exchange (PBX) in the world. That same year Nortel announced its "Digital World" project, which foresaw the development and market introduction of a complete family of digital switching, transmission and business communications systems.
In 1977 Bell Canada began to conduct a fibre optic field trial to residential customers in Montreal. The Manitoba Telephone System began to introduce fibre optics in that province beginning with customers in Elie, in 1981. In 1984 Sasktel, the provincially owned telephone company in Saskatchewan, completed the construction of a 3,268 km. long commercial fibre optics network to fifty-two communities in that province. In 1984 CNCP Telecommunications began the construction of a trans-Canada fibre optic network. By 2009, the national fibre optic system in Canada stretched 7000 kilometers across the country and included underwater fibre links to PEI (1985) and Newfoundland. Eight fibres are reserved for Trans-Canada traffic.
On 1 July 1985, Cantel and Bell Cellular began to offer cell phone service in Canada. They used a technical standard known as CDMA, which was compatible with mobile phone systems in the US but not elsewhere in the world. The fax began to make its presence felt in offices across Canada in the early 1980s.
The Globe and Mail began to produce its contents in electronic form in 1979. A year later in 1980, in order to enable the daily distribution of the Toronto-based paper across the country, in a bid to become Canada's "national newspaper", it began the transmission of its contents via Anik Satellite to regional offices, where it was printed and distributed.
Bluetooth technology, developed in 1994 by Ericsson, was introduced to Canadian consumers at that time. The technique permits the very short range radio communication of Bluetooth equipped electronic devices with each other for the purposes of information transfer. It is designed to eliminate the need for wires and cables to connect such machines.


=== Lasers ===
The use of lasers became common throughout Canada during these years. The devices are usually found as components of larger systems.
Lasers are used in the field of telecommunications, where they are act as the modulated light sources for fibre optic systems. The high frequency of the pulsed beams of light they produce enables the transmission of large quantities of information and the absence of an electromagnetic field around the fiber optic cable lessens transmission loss and increases the security of the data. Lasers are also used in many mechanical manufacturing systems to start and stop processes, measure component size and monitor and maintain quality.
In public they are commonly found at the retail checkout counter, where they scan bar codes. They are also used to open and close doors for people and cars and are common in public washrooms, where they control the flow of water for taps and the flushing of urinals and toilettes.
Their use in medicine has been growing. They are used to "burn" plaque from clogged arteries, to remove the decayed portion of teeth in dental treatment and to treat vision problems related to retinal detachment and near sightedness (lasik surgery).
The Lidar, a laser-based instrument, is used by meteorologists to determine the height of the cloud base.


=== Transportation ===
Smaller vehicles became popular in response to the oil crisis of 1973. In 1981 the Chrysler K platform introduced by that company formed the basis for the compact K-car. Front wheel drive was widely introduced to North America by the Big Three US automakers beginning in 1978, when the Plymouth Horizon and Dodge Omni, both with transverse mounted engines, became available. A wide variety of front wheel-drive-models were quickly offered to Canadians by other car makers. 
The air bag safety feature was introduced during these years. In the US, the 1973 model Oldsmobile Toronado was the first passenger car equipped with an air bag. Ford introduced air bags as an option in the Tempo in the US in 1984 and Chrysler made them a standard feature in 1988. Air bags were made available in the Canadian market as this feature became available in US models.
The semi-trailer truck (18 wheeler), became the dominant vehicle on the heavily used Highway 401 (Ontario). Containerization, which had made headway in ocean shipping with the construction of terminals in Halifax, Montreal and Vancouver also led to the eventual elimination of the railway box car and began to make inroads in the trucking industry. Light rail systems were built in Edmonton, Alberta in 1978, Calgary, Alberta, in 1981 and Vancouver, British Columbia in 1986.
The Ontario Highway 407 Express Toll Road (ETR), opened in Toronto in 1997 to ease the burden of traffic on Highway 401 which passes through the heart of the city to the south. Special technology is used to collect tolls without the use to toll booths. Regular users can equip their cars with a transponder that sends a signal to highway sensors when the vehicle enters and leaves the road. For those vehicles without a transponder, special electro-optical sensors read the number plate and a bill for the toll is sent to the vehicle owner in the mail.
In 1996 GM Canada introduced the OnStar service to Canadian and US customers who chose this option when purchasing a new car. Considered a safety feature, the service provides emergency services, vehicle diagnostics and directions to drivers on the road. It is based on GPS technology as well as CDMA mobile phone technology provided in Canada by Bell Mobility. There is a 24-hour emergency response centre in Oshawa for vehicles located in Canada.
In the 1990s, a national weather radar surveillance system for aviation and general use was established. The initial system, the Canadian weather radar network, established by Environment Canada, became operational in 1997 and consisted of 18 weather radars using the 5 centimetre wavelength (C-Band) and one using the ten-centimeter wavelength (S-Band). In 1998 that organization received approval to add another 12 radars and to upgrade the system to the Pulse-Doppler radar standard.
Also in 1997 the responsibility for air traffic control in Canada was transferred from Transport Canada to Nav Canada. The very large and complex control system operated by that organization uses a number of technologies, including 1400 ground-based navigation aids, 46 radars and six Automatic dependent surveillance-broadcast systems, which are based on global positioning technology.
Technological improvements have also enhanced rail safety during these years. These include a large number of incremental changes to elements of rolling stock including wheels, axles, trucks, couplers and brakes. There have also been improvements to tracks including continuous weld, concrete sleepers and switching techniques. Techniques of traffic control and communication have also been improved.


=== Industry ===
Bombardier's invention of a new class of aircraft, the regional jet or RJ, allowed airlines to introduce jet passenger service to smaller centres. The design of this machine was facilitated through the use of computer-aided design software. In 2009, Bombardier Aerospace of Montreal, in cooperation with the National Research Council Canada began using robots for the assembly of its aircraft.
Factory farming of pigs and chickens in particular became a prominent feature of agriculture during these years. Large numbers of these animals are crowded into very large barns with controlled environments in an effort to maximize their growth and hence profit for the farmer. The use of antibiotics to fight infection, as well as the use of growth hormones is common. The growth in the number of these farms has been dramatic. The Fraser Valley in British Columbia is home to the highest concentration of such farms in Canada and the number of farms there increased from 56 in 1991 to 146 in 2001.  The growth of genetically modified crops also became common. One of the most notable in this regard is canola. Developed in Canada from rapeseed during the 1970s by Keith Downey and Baldur Stefansson it is used to produce oil that is low in erucic acid and glucosinolate and has become a major cash crop in North America. A strain of canola with additional modification that made it resistant to herbicide was introduced in Canada in 1996.


=== Robotics ===
The use of computer-controlled robots in manufacturing (computer-aided manufacturing) as well as the closely associated, just-in-time inventory management technique, were pioneered in Canada by the auto manufacturers, who introduced them to improve efficiency. They were put to use in new auto manufacturing plants built, by Honda Canada in Alliston, Ontario and Toyota Canada in Cambridge, Ontario (1988). The techniques of robotic assembly-line manufacturing have improved over the years. As of 2009 robots form the basis for automobile production in Canada with a number of facilities and companies using this technology, including (city, company, model):

Alliston, Ontario; Honda, Acura CSX, Acura MDX, Civic;
Oshawa, Ontario, General Motors, Camaro, Chevrolet Impala;
Ingersoll, Ontario, General Motors (CAMI – GM Suzike), Chevrolet Equinox, GMC Terrain;
Brampton, Ontario, Chrysler, Chrysler 300, Dodge Challenger, Dodge Charger;
Windsor, Ontario, Chrysler/Volkswagen, Chrysler Town and Country, Dodge Grand Caravan, Volkswagen Routan;
Oakville, Ontario, Ford, Edge, Grand Marquis, Lincoln MKX;
Cambridge, Ontario, Toyota, Matrix, Corolla, Lexus RX;
St. Thomas, Ontario, Ford, Crown Victoria, Lincoln Town Car and
Woodstock, Ontario, Toyota, RAV4.


=== Space technology: earth observation and geomatics ===
Geomatics, a term that originated in Canada, is a technique of computer-based mapping that integrates information from a variety of sources including, cartography, remote sensing (including images from RADARSAT), surveying, global satellite navigation systems, geodesy and photogrammetry. In the new century it has become an important tool used by Canadians in a variety of endeavours including, commerce, the environment, search and rescue, urban planning, defence and natural resource management among other things. The Geomatics Industry Association of Canada, founded in 1988, presently has a membership of more than 100 organizations.
During these years Canada's unmanned space programme included the first launching of a Canadian earth observation satellite, RADARSAT-1 in 1995 and an improved version RADARSAT-2 in 2007. Placed in polar orbits each of these satellites images almost the Earth's entire surface, every 24 days using a powerful synthetic aperture radar, SAR. The images have both operational and scientific applications and their data is of use in geology, hydrology, agriculture, cartography, forestry, climatology, urbanology, environmental studies, meteorology, oceanography and other fields. In 2009 the Canadian Space Agency announced a follow-up programme, RADARSAT Constellation, which will see the launching of three earth observation satellites, in 2014, 2015 and 2016 respectively, working as a trio to provide complete coverage of Canada's land and ocean surfaces as well as 95% of the surface of the world every 24 hours.


=== Energy, offshore oil and gas ===
The technology for offshore oil and gas extraction was introduced to Canada during these years. The first of several projects off of Canada's east coast was the massive Hibernia platform, a gravity base structure (GBS), built in Bull Arm, Newfoundland in the early 1990s. The 1.2 million ton structure was towed into place, 315 km to the south east of St. John's, Newfoundland, over the Hibernia off-shore oil reservoir, where it was positioned resting on the ocean floor in 80 meters of water with its superstructure rising 50 meters above the surface of the sea.  In 1997 the facility began to pump oil from the sea bottom. The oil is stored in giant on-board tanks and continuously off-loaded by a fleet of dedicated shuttle tankers which transport it to the shore-based oil refinery at Come-by-Chance, Newfoundland.
The nearby Terra Nova, 350 km off shore, began to produce oil in 2002. The platform itself rests on the ocean floor and pumps oil from the sea bottom. However, unlike the Hibernia facility, the oil flows directly into a Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO) vessel, the Terra Nova FPSO, where it is processed and stored. The oil in the storage tanks is then removed by a shuttle tanker. A third oil production facility in the same area, the White Rose (oil field), operated by Husky Petroleum, which began operation in 2005 also uses a Floating Production Storage and Offloading (FPSO) vessel, the SeaRose FPSO.
Undersea pipelines, the first in Canada and part of the Sable Offshore Energy Project have been introduced to transport gas from undersea wells off the coast of Nova Scotia since 2000. Gas was discovered near Sable Island in 1979 with the first platform and well head installed in the Thebaud field in 1999. An on-shore gas treatment facility was built at Goldboro and connected to the wellhead with a 225 km long undersea pipeline and production began in 2000. Other fields have been connected via undersea pipeline including the North Triumph, Venture, Alma and South Venture.
Other notable energy works included, the ill-fated east coast Ocean Ranger drilling platform, which sank in a storm in 1982 with the loss of all aboard, the Nova Scotia Power Corporation tidal generating station, Annapolis, 1984 and the Darlington Nuclear Generating Station, Darlington, Ontario, 1990. The construction of large-scale hydro-electric plants far from electric markets lead to the introduction of techniques for long distance electric power transmission. These techniques were used at a number of sites, including the W.A.C Bennett hydro station in British Columbia in 1968, Churchill Falls, Labrador, 1971 and the Robert-Bourassa generating station, 1981, the La Grande-3 generating station, 1984, the La Grande-4 generating station, 1986 and the La Grande-2-A generating station, 1992, all in Quebec.


=== Biotechnology ===
Biotechnology involves modifying living organisms to serve human goals. Biological techniques are derived from a number of sciences including, biology, chemistry, organic chemistry, biochemistry, genetics, botany, zoology, microbiology and embryology to name a few.  In 1987, a number of Canadian companies and university research organizations operating in the field of biotechnology established the Industrial Biotechnology Association of Canada, also known as BIOTECanada. In 2005, the industry consisted of companies offering biotechnologically based services and products in the following sectors: human health (262 firms), agriculture (89 firms), food processing (54 firms), environment (33 firms), bioinformatics (16 firms), natural resources (21 firms) and aquaculture (15 firms). As of 2010 BIOTECanada had more than 250 members.
In 2005 noted bio-medical spenders on biotechnological research (research spending in millions of C$) included, Apotex Inc. (151.1), Pfizer Canada Inc. (147.5), GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (111.8), Merck Frosst Canada Ltd. (96.6), Biovail Corporation (88.9), AstraZeneca Canada Inc. (79.8) and Sanofi Pasteur Limited (76.6).
Another product of biotechnology, genetically modified crops, are grown throughout Canada. One of the most widely known, canola was developed in Canada through selective breeding in 1974. Canola oil is used in food products and in non-food items such as lipstick, candles, bio-fuels and newspaper ink. One of the largest suppliers of genetically modified seeds for food crops and animal feed in Canada is Monsanto Canada, established in Winnipeg in 1901.


=== Medicine ===
Medical treatment advanced during these years. The use of lasers and computers became important parts of medical treatment. Computers were essential in the development of new medical imaging devices such as the CAT scan, positron emission tomography and the MRI. Minimally invasive surgery, also known as laparoscopic surgery, reduced surgical damage to patients. Lasers were used with catheters for clearing blocked arteries and catheters with small cameras provided images of conditions inside the body. Coronary bypass surgery became commonplace. Laser eye surgery became popular in the 1990s and was used to improve visual acuity for the near-sighted. New chemical chemotherapy combinations helped prolong the lives of cancer patients. Techniques for the long-term application of medication through the use of a skin patch or implants appeared during these years.
A large number of medical drugs (List of bestselling drugs) for treating a wide variety of ailments such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol levels, arthritis, allergies, anemia, depression, asthma, osteoporosis and diabetes, became available to Canadians during this period.
The techniques for blood collection, processing and transfusion came under severe criticism in Canada during the 1980s, and led to Canada's worst-ever public health crisis. Between 1980 and 1985, 2000 recipients of tainted blood provided by the Canadian Red Cross were infected with the HI virus. Between 1980 and 1990, 30,000 Canadian transfusion recipients were infected with hepatitis C from tainted blood. About 8000 of those who received bad blood have died or are expected to die as a result. An investigation known as the Royal Commission of Inquiry on the Blood System in Canada was launched in 1993 and issued its final report in 1997.
A private company, IVF Canada of Scarborough, was the first to begin offering in vitro fertilization (IVF) in Canada beginning in 1983. Since that date the company has recorded a number of Canadian "firsts" in this field, including the first IVF pregnancy, first IVF twins, the first IVF triplets and the first baby born from a frozen embryo. Beginning in 1998 male erectile difficulties could be treated with the use of Viagra and other medications.


=== Domestic and consumer technology ===
There were innovations in home design and construction during this period. Houses generally became bigger. New materials such as vinyl siding became common and often replaced more expensive brick for home exteriors. The car port and garage became widespread features and the latter was often located close to the curb, creating a rather crowded streetscape. The home dishwasher and the microwave oven were introduced. Large-screen televisions usually of the cathode ray or projection type were found in many homes. The Sony Walkman, introduced in 1979, quickly gained popularity as a means for listening to music on the go. There were innovations in the field of domestic cuisine including the introduction of microwave popcorn. In 1981, the development of the susceptor bag (a paper bag impregnated with an aluminum-coated polyester film), allowed popcorn therein to be popped in a microwave oven without scorching.
The compact disc (CD) and the digital video disc (DVD) were introduced at this time. The CD, which appeared in 1982, became a favourite format for musical recordings. By 1986 most music stores in Canada had phased out the LP and replaced it with the CD. It was also used for other purposes including data storage in the form of the CD-ROM. A closely related format, the DVD, with greater storage capacity than the CD, was introduced in 1997. In 1986, Americ Disc of Drummondville, Quebec began to manufacture CDs and after 1997, DVDs and has become one of the largest suppliers of this product in North America. The infrared-based TV remote control became popular with Canadians in the early 1980s.
Video games have become a wildly popular form of entertainment especially for youth, since the 1980s. The earliest video game dated from 1947 and a number of devices were produced in the 1950s and 1960s. However, it was the development of the computer chip that led to their popularization. The coin-operated arcade game Pong introduced by Atari in 1972 was the first to become widely available. The next phase of development included the introduction in the mid-1970s of the home console, first with a hardwired game, but then complemented in 1977 by “plug and play”, which allowed the use of game cartridges for variety. Beginning in 1985 PC gaming became popular, exploiting the flexibility and increasing popularity of the personal computer. In 1989 Nintendo released its Game Boy, the first of the hand-held electronic games. Game imagery became more elaborate with the introduction of the 32-bit chip that was featured in the Sony PlayStation released in 1994. The 128-bit, sixth generation of video games was born with the introduction of the Sega Dreamcast in 1998. These technologies found a place in the Canadian consumer market from the moment of their introduction and Canadian companies have played a role in their development, with hardware makers like ATI Technologies developing high-powered video chips for game imagery and software companies developing a number of games.
Gore-Tex, a breathable, waterproof textile, was patented in the US in 1980. Clothing made from this product and designed for outdoor all-weather, sporting, athletic and recreational activity became available in Canada shortly thereafter.
The theme park became popular in the 1980s and the technology of thrill is the main attraction. In Toronto, Canada's Wonderland, Canada's largest, opened its doors to the public in 1981 and is now tied for second place in North America as the theme park with the most roller coasters (List of roller coasters at Canada's Wonderland). Galaxyland the world's largest indoor amusement park located in the West Edmonton Mall which opened in 1981 has garnered continent-wide attention. The most popular thrill ride, the Mindbender (Galaxyland) is the largest indoor triple-loop roller coaster in North America. The Drop of Doom was another featured attraction until closed in the early 2000s. The Mall's World Waterpark, which opened in 1985 offers bathers a chance to cavort in the world's largest indoor wave pool. The technology of auto racetrack design and construction has been put to good use in Montreal at the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve, Canada's premier auto race track and home of the Canadian Grand Prix Formula 1 motor car races since 1978. The slot machine, so dear to gamblers, was introduced during this period. Casinos have been built in Windsor, Caesars Windsor 1994, Niagara Falls, Niagara Fallsview Casino Resort 1996 and Orillia, Casino Rama 1996, Ontario, Montreal, Montreal Casino, Gatineau, Casino du Lac Leamy 1996 and Baie St. Paul, Casino de Charlevoix 1994,  Quebec, Halifax, Casino Nova Scotia 1995, Nova Scotia and in Vancouver, the River Rock Casino Resort 2006, British Columbia.
The world's first automated teller machine (ATM) service was developed by the Sherwood Credit Union in Regina in 1977, at that institution's North Albert Branch. Other Canadian financial institutions followed this lead and by the 1980s the ATM was available throughout Canada.
During the 1980s the bar code became a familiar feature on consumer products ranging from food to clothes as did the bar code scanner at the retail checkout counter. These two technologies greatly improved the effectiveness of the check-out procedure and improved inventory management as well, through the associated computer accounting of stock. This was one of the factors leading to the technique of just-in-time inventory management for retail, commercial and industrial undertakings.
The payment of consumer purchases at the retail checkout counter through the use of an electronic debit card was introduced across Canada in 1994. Known as Interac, the system allows the consumer to swipe his personal card and with the use of a personal identification number have the amount of the purchase electronically deducted from his or her bank account. The service has since become very popular.


=== Waste disposal, recycling ===
Although the concept of recycling waste materials was not new, the Blue Box Recycling System for domestic refuse collection made the idea highly visible. Initially developed by Laidlaw Waste Systems for the Kitchener, Ontario, in 1983, it was introduced to Ontario municipalities in 1986, by Ontario Multi-Material Recycling Incorporated (OMMRI), and promoted by Nyle Ludolph, who became known as the Father of the Blue Box. The concept involved the use of blue plastic boxes which were distributed to home owners, who in turn filled them with recyclable refuse and placed them at curbside for weekly pickup. The refuse was taken to specially designed plants, where materials were sorted and recycled. The technique became popular in municipalities across Canada in the years that followed.
During these years the municipal garbage dump evolved to become the sanitary landfill site. A number of technologies, including clay and plastic liners were used to contain the smell and leachate. The largest in Canada, the Keele Valley Landfill was operated by the City of Toronto from 1983 until 2002, when it was closed because it was full.
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), the gas propellants used in aerosol spray cans, became a target for environmental concern in the 1970s and 1980s when research demonstrated that they had a harmful effect on the ozone layer in the atmosphere. The international Montreal Protocol of 1989 banned the use of these substances and they were subsequently replaced with volatile hydrocarbons.
The problem with choice to reuse is still not available. There are many products that do not need to be recycled for a hundred years, but are put out monthly.


=== Architecture and civil engineering ===
Large architectural works of note included BC Place, Vancouver, 1983, Petro-Canada Centre, West Tower, Calgary, 1984, the West Edmonton Mall, Edmonton, Alberta, 1986,  Scotia Plaza, Toronto 1988, the Canterra Tower, Calgary, 1988, the Sky Dome, Toronto, 1989, Bankers Hall, Calgary, 1989, BCE Place–Canada Trust Tower, Toronto, 1990, the Bay Wellington Tower, Toronto, 1990, Tour du 1000 de la Gauchetière, Montreal, 1991, Tour IBM-Marathon, Montreal, 1992 and GM Place, Vancouver, 1995.
New arenas for Canada's National Hockey League teams were built, including GM Place, Vancouver, home of the Vancouver Canucks in 1995, the Corel Centre in Ottawa, home of the Ottawa Senators and Molson Centre in Montreal, new home of the Montreal Canadiens, both in 1996.
Significant new bridges included the Alex Fraser Bridge, Vancouver, 1986, the SkyBridge, Vancouver, 1989 and the Confederation Bridge, NB-PEI, 1997.


== End note ==
In the earlier parts of Canada's history, the state often played a crucial role in the diffusion of these technologies, in some cases through a monopoly enterprise, in others with a private "partner". In more recent times the need for the role of the state has diminished in the presence of a larger private sector.
In the latter part of the 20th century there is evidence that Canadian values prefer public expenditures on social programmes at the expense of public spending on the maintenance and expansion of public technical infrastructure. This can be seen in the fact that in 2008 the Federation of Canadian Municipalities estimated that it would take $123 billion to restore and repair aging urban infrastructure across Canada.


== See also ==


== References ==


== Further reading ==


== External links ==
Canadian Institute for Advanced Research: Science
Science at The Canadian Encyclopedia
Canadian Science and Technology Historical Association
Innovation in Canada

Liverpool 8 is the fifteenth studio album by Ringo Starr, released worldwide on 14 January 2008. Received with mixed reviews, it marked Starr's return to EMI for the first time since leaving the label in 1975, following the end of the Beatles' recording contract with the company.


== Background ==
Liverpool 8 was originally planned for release in June 2007, and began as another production by the collaborative team of Mark Hudson and Starr (the two had previously co-produced Vertical Man, I Wanna Be Santa Claus, VH1 Storytellers, Ringo Rama, and Choose Love). However, the release date was pushed back to the beginning of 2008 when Hudson was replaced by Dave Stewart after a falling out with Starr. The album's production credits read, "Produced by Ringo Starr and Mark Hudson; Re-Produced by Ringo Starr and David Stewart."
All of the songs but one were written with the Roundheads, although Stewart also has two co-writing credits. Starr's attorney Bruce Grakal told journalist Peter Palmiere that the partnership between Hudson and Starr was over and they would never work together again. This happened after Hudson dropped out of Starr's 2006 tour as musical director to do the television special The One: Making a Music Star. According to Palmiere, Hudson claimed that the split was over Starr's insistence on using synthesized sounds, for which Stewart is known, whereas Hudson wanted real guitars, pianos, strings etc. However, concerning the parting of ways with Hudson, Starr commented, "The separation between Mark Hudson and myself was a question of trust and friendship and had nothing to do with synthesizers."


== Release ==
Liverpool 8 was released worldwide by Capitol Records. The title refers to the postal district of the Toxteth area of Liverpool in which Starr was born. The album was released on CD, MP3, and USB Wristband. It was available as a free audio stream at www.vh1classic.com before its release date. The title track was released on CD and digital download as the first single from the album on 7 January 2008. Liverpool 8 entered the UK Album Chart at number 91, and reached a peak of number 94 in the US. The album sold 7,000 copies within the first week of release and as of January 2010, 31,000 copies have been sold.
A few weeks later after the album release, readers of the New York Daily News were offered a non-album track called "It's Love", which was recorded during the sessions for Liverpool 8.


== Reception ==

Liverpool 8 has a 59 per cent "mixed or average" rating from Metacritic. Billboard gave the album a positive review, calling it "full of nostalgia for the good ol' days". Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic writes that "it's nothing too flashy and it has not one tune that calls attention to itself". In a particularly unfavourable review for The Times, Pete Paphides wrote that "it’s hard not to boggle at Liverpool's susceptibility to flattery", and "Just because [the album] was fun to make, it doesn’t follow that you might enjoy listening to it."


== Track listing ==
All tracks written by Ringo Starr, Mark Hudson, Gary Burr and Steve Dudas except where noted.


== Personnel ==
Personnel per booklet.


== Charts ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Liverpool 8 at Discogs (list of releases)
The Official Ringo Starr Site

Crosthwaite and Lyth is a civil parish in the Westmorland and Furness district of Cumbria, England. In the 2001 census the parish had a population of 562, increasing at the 2011 census to 618.


== Governance ==
The village falls in the Lyth Valley electoral ward. This ward stretches south to Morecambe Bay with a total population of 2,180.


== See also ==

Listed buildings in Crosthwaite and Lyth
Crosthwaite


== References ==


== External links ==

Crosthwaite and Lyth website
Cumbria County History Trust: Crosthwaite and Lyth (nb: provisional research only – see Talk page)

Upatissa is a Pali and Sinhala name. It may refer to:

An alternate name for Sariputta, one of the chief male disciples of Gautama Buddha
Upatissagāma, his birthplace, near Rajgriha, in Magadha, India
Upatissa (regent), chief minister and member of Prince Vijaya's followers, Sinhalese regent of the Kingdom of Tambapanni (505 BC–504 BC)
Arahant Upatissa (Sri Lanka, 1st or 2nd century CE), the reputed author of the Vimuttimagga, an ancient Buddhist meditation manual
Upatissa I of Anuradhapura, King of Anuradhapura (370–412)
Upatissa II of Anuradhapura, King of Anuradhapura (525–526)
Upatissa (monk) (Sri Lanka, 10th Century CE), reputed author of the Mahabodhivamsa
Upatissa Gamanayake (1948–1989), former deputy leader of the Janatha Vimukthi Peramuna
Upatissagāma, capital of the Kingdom of Tambapanni in Sri Lanka


== See also ==
Tissa (disambiguation)

Taşdelen is a Turkish word. It may refer to:


== People ==
Cihan Tasdelen (born 1975), German football manager of Turkish descent
Orhan Taşdelen (born 1987), Turkish footballer
Reyhan Taşdelen (born 2007), Turkish Paralympian athlete


== Places ==
Taşdelen, Uludere, a village in the Uludere District of Şırnak Province in Turkey
Taşdelen, İmranlı, a village in the İmranlı District of Sivas Province in Turkey

Local elections were held in the Province of Laguna on May 14, 2007 as part of the 2007 Philippine general election. Voters selected candidates for all local positions: a municipal/city mayor, vice mayor and town councilors, as well as members of the Sangguniang Panlalawigan, the vice-governor, governor and representatives for the four districts of Laguna.


== Candidates ==


=== Administration coalition ===


=== Opposition coalition ===


== Provincial elections ==


=== Gubernatorial election ===
Incumbent Teresita Lazaro is running for her third and final term. Her main opponent is Vice Governor Edwin Olivarez.


=== Vice gubernatorial election ===
Incumbent Edwin Olivarez is not running for reelection. Instead, he is running for Governor. His party nominee is 2nd district board member Ramil Hernandez. Hernandez's main opponent is singer and 1st district board member Marco Sison.


=== Provincial Board ===
All 4 Districts of Laguna elected Sangguniang Panlalawigan or Provincial Board members.


==== Summary ====


==== 1st District ====
Cities: Santa Rosa
Municipality: Biñan, San Pedro


==== 2nd District ====
Cities: Calamba
Municipality: Bay, Cabuyao, Los Baños


==== 3rd District ====
Cities: San Pablo
Municipality: Alaminos, Calauan, Liliw, Nagcarlan, Rizal, Victoria


==== 4th District ====
Municipalities: Cavinti, Famy, Kalayaan, Luisiana, Lumban, Mabitac, Magdalena, Majayjay, Paete, Pagsanjan, Pakil, Pangil, Pila, Santa Cruz, Santa Maria, Siniloan


== Congressional elections ==
Each of Laguna's four legislative districts elected a representative to the House of Representatives. The candidate with the highest number of votes wins the seat.


=== 1st District ===
Incumbent Uliran Tee–Joaquin is term-limited and she is running for Mayor of San Pedro her party did not name a candidate for representative but her son Nereo Raymundo Jr. is running but later lost to Dan Fernandez.


=== 2nd District ===
Incumbent Justine Marc Chipeco is running for reelection his main opponent is incumbent Provincial Board Member Susano Tapia.


=== 3rd District ===
Incumbent Danton Bueser is term limited and running Mayor of San Pablo City his party nominee is San Pablo City Councilor Ma. Evita Arago.


=== 4th District ===
Incumbent Benjamin Agarao Jr. is running for reelection his main opponent is Edgar San Luis.


== City and municipal elections ==
All municipalities of Laguna. Calamba City, San Pablo City, and Santa Rosa City will also elect mayor and vice-mayor this election. The candidates for mayor and vice mayor with the highest number of votes wins the seat; they are voted separately, therefore, they may be of different parties when elected. Below is the list of mayoralty and vice mayoralty candidates of each cities and municipalities per district.


=== 1st District ===
Cities: Santa Rosa
Municipality: Biñan, San Pedro


==== Santa Rosa ====


==== Biñan ====
Vice Mayor Len Alonte won the elections against former Vice Mayor and 2004 mayoral candidate Jose Francisco Ruben Yatco.

Councilor Walfredo Dimaguila Jr. won the elections.


==== San Pedro ====


=== 2nd District ===
Cities: Calamba
Municipality: Bay, Cabuyao, Los Baños


==== Calamba ====


==== Bay ====


==== Cabuyao ====


==== Los Baños ====


=== 3rd District ===
Cities: San Pablo
Municipality: Alaminos, Calauan, Liliw, Nagcarlan, Rizal, Victoria


==== San Pablo ====


==== Alaminos ====


==== Calauan ====


==== Liliw ====


==== Nagcarlan ====


==== Rizal ====


==== Victoria ====


=== 4th District ===
Municipalities: Cavinti, Famy, Kalayaan, Luisiana, Lumban, Mabitac, Magdalena, Majayjay, Paete, Pagsanjan, Pakil, Pangil, Pila, Santa Cruz, Santa Maria, Siniloan


==== Cavinti ====


==== Famy ====


==== Kalayaan ====


==== Luisiana ====
Incumbent Mayor Manuel Rondila run for re-election, his main opponent is Incumbent councilor Nestor Rondilla

Incumbent Vice Mayor Alex Noceja is seeking for Re-Election, his main opponents are Crisanto Villamin who is the husband of Manuel Rondilla's Sister and Councilor Eduardo Aldovino


==== Lumban ====


==== Mabitac ====


==== Magdalena ====


==== Majayjay ====


==== Paete ====


==== Pagsanjan ====


==== Pakil ====


==== Pangil ====


==== Pila ====


==== Santa Cruz ====


==== Santa Maria ====


==== Siniloan ====


== References ==

The 2012 FIA WTCC Race of Spain was the second round of the 2012 World Touring Car Championship season and the eighth running of the FIA WTCC Race of Spain . It was held on 1 April 2012 at the Circuit Ricardo Tormo in Valencia, Spain. Chevrolet driver Yvan Muller took pole position for the first race, with Wiechers-Sport's Stefano D'Aste on pole for the second race after the top ten qualifiers were reversed. Both races were won by Chevrolet with Muller winning race one and Alain Menu winning race two.


== Background ==
After the opening round in Italy, Muller was leading the drivers' championship. D'Aste was leading the Yokohama Independents' Trophy.
A continued shortage of the new for 2012 SEAT 1.6T engine meant the cars run by SUNRED Engineering switched to the SUNRED 1.6T engine prior to the Race of Spain. Tiago Monteiro and Andrea Barlesi would switch to the engine and they were joined by series debutant Fernando Monje. Monje joined the championship, having competed in the supporting European Touring Car Cup at Monza. Tom Boardman returned to the championship having been forced to sit out the opening round. With no SEAT 1.6T engine available for him, he took part in the event using the TDI engine.


== Report ==


=== Free practice ===
Muller led the opening practice session on Saturday morning with Robert Huff second and Menu third. Pepe Oriola was the fastest SEAT León WTCC while Monteiro was the fastest of the three SUNRED engined cars.
Gabriele Tarquini went quickest in the second free practice session in his Lukoil Racing Team SEAT. ROAL Motorsport driver Tom Coronel had set the pace for much of the session until his time was beaten by Huff and then Tarquini in the final five minutes of the session. Charles Ng was given a black flag after getting stuck in a gravel trap on his first flying lap and then continuing in the session after receiving outside help. Six drivers were warned for cutting the apex at the first corner.


=== Qualifying ===
Muller secured his first pole position of the year in qualifying ahead of Tarquini and Coronel. Oriola took the independents' pole with fourth place. Tarquini had been fastest in the first part of qualifying but Muller had been close to going out in the first element of qualifying. Muller had his best time removed for running too wide but he ended the session eighth after a last minute flying lap. By finishing tenth in second qualifying, D'Aste secured the pole position on the reversed grid in race two. The session was not stopped at any time but after the session, the Lukoil Racing car of Aleksei Dudukalo caught fire in Parc Ferme.


=== Warm-Up ===
Huff led the warm up session on Sunday morning with pole sitter Muller second fastest.


=== Race One ===
Muller led from start to finish to secure his third straight victory of the year. Tarquini had got a better launch from the rolling start but Muller was able to defend and from then on Tarquini's main threat was from Coronel behind. Coronel had received a black and white driving standards flag for making contact with Tarquini but continued on to the final podium spot. Huff and Menu climbed up to fourth and fifth respectively at the expense of Oriola, but sixth place was still enough to secure the independents' victory for Oriola. Monteiro was able to finish in the top ten in his SUNRED-powered car while the only car that failed to finish was Dudukalo.


=== Race Two ===
Menu ended Muller's winning streak in race two by coming home ahead of Coronel and D'Aste. Wiechers-Sport driver D'Aste had led until lap seven when he ran wide and handed the lead to Menu. Both Menu and D'Aste then hit oil two laps later sending them across the gravel at turn ten and promoting Coronel to second. Coronel battled with Menu for the lead in the final laps but held on to take the win by less than a second. Menu's Chevrolet was followed home by four BMW 320 TCs as Norbert Michelisz and Franz Engstler followed Coronel and D'Aste.


== Results ==


=== Qualifying ===

Bold denotes Pole position for second race.


=== Race 1 ===

Bold denotes Fastest lap.


=== Race 2 ===

Bold denotes Fastest lap.


== Standings after the round ==

Note: Only the top five positions are included for both sets of drivers' standings.


== References ==


== External links ==
Results Booklet PDF at FIAWTCC.com
Valencia Race Report PDF at FIAWTCC.com

John Whyte may refer to:

John Whyte (pastoralist) (c. 1826–1902), pastoralist and grocer in Whyte, Counsell & Co. in South Australia
John Whyte (politician) (1838–1924), former merchant and politician in Quebec
John B. Whyte (1928–2004), American model and real estate entrepreneur
John Blair Whyte (1840–1914), member of parliament and mayor in the Waikato Region of New Zealand
John Henry Whyte (1928–1990), Irish historian and political scientist
John Whyte (died 1913), Scottish journalist, translator of Gaelic, and librarian, see Alexander Macbain
John Whyte, a London entrepreneur who built the Kensington Hippodrome
Jock Whyte (1921–1998), Scottish former footballer


== See also ==
Jack Whyte (1940–2021), Scottish-Canadian novelist
John Whyte-Melville-Skeffington, 13th Viscount Massereene (1914–1992), British politician and landowner
John White (disambiguation)

Helen and Joseph was a Maltese singing duo consisting of Joe Cutajar and Helen Micallef, best known for their participation in the Eurovision Song Contest 1972, held in Edinburgh, Scotland.
The duo briefly reunited at the Malta Eurovision Song Contest in 2022, singing "L-imħabba" on the 50th anniversary of their participation.


== Before Helen and Joseph ==


=== Helen Micallef ===

Helen Micallef was born on 8 May 1950 in Birkirkara, Malta. The fourth of eight children, she was the sibling of fellow Eurovision entrant Renato, who went on to represent Malta at the Eurovision Song Contest 1975 in Stockholm, Sweden. Micallef began her singing career at the age of ten years old when took part in a song festival with her sister in the hall of St. Aloysius College. At 14, she joined the group The Four Links, which consisted of Joe Muscat, John B. Gove and Edwin Vella.
After numerous line-up changes, Elio Calleja joined the group and they simply renamed to The Links. In 1966, they won second place in a Sicilian Song Contest. Later that year, Micallef left the group to begin her career as a soloist. The group went on to enter into multiple Maltese national finals, even competing with Micallef in 1972.
In 1967, she won a song contest against Albano and Mia Martini amongst others, who both would also go on to Eurovision on multiple occasions. With this victory, Micallef played concerts in Rome and Florence and represented Malta in another International Festival held in the city of Sopot in Poland.
After this, she remained active in various television programs, Nightclubs and Hotels. In 1968, Helen won the Malta Song Festival with the song "Tu ora capirai" written by composer Carmelo Zammit. In 1969, Helen finished in 2nd place at the Malta Song Festival with the song "Qawsalla" written by composer F. X. Pisani.
Micallef died on 5 February 2026, at the age of 75.


=== Joe Cutajar ===

Joe Cutajar was born in Valletta on 27 January 1941. In 1969, he participated in the Malta Song Festival (where Helen also participated, finishing second) and won the prize for Best Singer. Joe Cutajar died in March 2024, at the age of 83.


== At Eurovision ==

Cutajar won Song For Europe 1972, the Maltese national final, on 12 January 1972 with the song "L-imħabba". Despite winning solo, Micallef accompanied him in Edinburgh. She had finished third with the song "Għasfur taċ-ċomb".
At the contest, the duo performed in vibrant red polka dots. They finished last with 48 points, getting the minimum amount of 2 points from 10 out of 18 juries—their highest mark was six votes from the United Kingdom.


== References ==


== External links ==
Helen and Joseph discography at Discogs
Helen Micallef discography at Discogs
Joe Cutajar discography at Discogs

Peter Street and Brosscroft is an area in Derbyshire, England. It is part of Hadfield (where the population can be found), located on the north-east side.
It is situated on the boundary of the Peak District National Park and as such is ideal for outdoor recreation activities including walking, cycling and watersports.
It is within a stone's throw of the Park boundary, within two minutes walk (or cycle) of the Longdendale Trail and five minutes walk of the Trans Pennine Trail.
The nearest of four linked reservoirs has been used for watersports in the summer, and the next reservoir has a resident sailing club.
It is less than five minutes drive (ten minutes walk) to the railway station and a similar distance to the A628 trans-pennine trunk road.
Residents thus enjoy a rural lifestyle but with the additional benefits of good east–west road links (to South Yorkshire/M1 and Manchester/M6) and a direct rail link to Manchester Piccadilly and thence to the Airport.


== References ==

The George Thorndike Angell Memorial (sometimes called Angell Memorial Fountain or George Thorndike Angell Memorial Horse Fountain) is a monument commemorating George Thorndike Angell in Post Office Square in Boston, Massachusetts.


== Description and history ==
The fountain and 7,500 square foot plaza were designed by the firm of Peabody & Stearns in 1912.
The work was surveyed by the Smithsonian Institution's "Save Outdoor Sculpture!" program in 1997.


== References ==


== External links ==
George Thorndike Angell Park and Memorial – Boston, MA

Pulse computation is a hybrid of digital and analog computation that uses aperiodic electrical spikes, as opposed to the periodic voltages in a digital computer or the continuously varying voltages in an analog computer. Pulse streams are unclocked, so they can arrive at arbitrary times and can be generated by analog processes, although each spike is allocated a binary value, as it would be in a digital computer.
Pulse computation is primarily studied as part of the field of neural networks.  The processing unit in such a network is called a "neuron".


== References ==

Sonny West may refer to:

Sonny Boy West (1929–1950), American boxer
Sonny West (musician) (1937–2022), American songwriter
Sonny West (actor) (1938–2017), American actor and stuntman, friend and bodyguard of Elvis Presley

Jean-Yves Cuendet (born February 20, 1970) is a retired Swiss Nordic combined skier who competed during the 1990s. He won a bronze medal in the 3 x 10 km team event at the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer. Cuendet also won a bronze medal in the 4 x 5 km team event at the 1995 FIS Nordic World Ski Championships in Thunder Bay, Ontario.


== References ==

Sufi Kandi (Persian: صوفي كندي, also romanized as Şūfī Kandī) is a village in Firuraq Rural District, in the Central District of Khoy County, West Azerbaijan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 84, in 22 families.


== References ==

The Garafiri Dam is an embankment dam on the Konkouré River which forms the boundary between the Kindia and Mamou Regions of Guinea. The dam was constructed by Salini Impregilo between 1995 and 1999 for the purpose of hydroelectric power generation and water supply. The power station had a breakdown in 2002 but was repaired shortly afterwards. The power station has an installed capacity of 75 megawatts (101,000 hp).


== See also ==

Energy in Guinea
List of power stations in Guinea


== References ==

Baty may refer to:


== People ==
Brett Baty (born 1999), American baseball player
Gaston Baty (1885–1952), French playwright and theatre director
Greg Baty (born 1964), former American football player
Richard Baty (died 1758), Scottish Anglican divine
Patrick Baty (born 1956), British historian of paint and colour
Thomas Baty (1869–1954), British transgender lawyer, author and activist


== Other uses ==


== See also ==
Batty

Suzy Byrne is an Irish LGBT+ and disability rights activist, broadcaster, and writer. Byrne  was a member of the Gay and Lesbian Equality Network (GLEN)  and served as co-chair during the campaign to decriminalize homosexuality in Ireland, which succeeded in 1993. Byrne has been actively involved in organizations including the National LGBT Federation and the International Lesbian and Gay Youth Organisation. She also acted as spokesperson for the Campaign for Equality, a  cross sectoral coalition of groups fighting for equal status legislation. Byrne co-authored Coming Out: Book for Lesbians and Gay Men of All Ages in 1994 and has contributed to publications such as Lesbian and Gay Visions of Ireland. Byrne has also worked with the National Advocacy Service for People with Disabilities and served on the board of Iarnród Éireann.


== Biography ==
In the early 1990’s, Byrne was a member  of the Gay and Lesbian Equality Network (GLEN) and became co-chair of the organisation during the campaign for decriminalisation of homosexuality. She met with Irish politicians as part of GLEN lobbying delegations and attended protests with other activists until the successful change of legislation in the Irish Constitution in 1993. When the law changed decriminalising homosexuality, Byrne was featured on the front page of Issue 54 of the Irish magazine Gay Community News (GCN) celebrating outside Leinster House with activists Phil Moore, Chris Robson and Kieran Rose. The photograph was also published in The Irish Times.
In the late 1990s, Byrne studied a degree in Sociology and Social Policy as a mature student at Trinity College Dublin, where she researched sexual orientation, health and aging. As a student and activist, Byrne spoke to the Irish press about how "college authorities failed to prevent campus homophobia;" that "tutors, lecturers and teaching assistants need training in order to avoid discrimination;" the need for "non-judgemental" student counselling and pastoral care for the gay student community; that violence towards gay and lesbian people was under-reported; and how the current Irish law was "insufficient to prevent discrimination."
In 1993, she was one of the activists on the National Lesbian and Gay Federation Float at the annual St Patrick's Day Parade in Dublin and carried the GLEN banner with Feargus McGarvey at Dublin Pride. The image of Byrne with McGarvey has featured in the 2024 book Reeling in the Queers: Tales of Ireland's LGBTQ Past.
Byrne co-authored the book Coming Out: Book for Lesbians and Gay Men of All Ages with Irish LGBT+ activist and drag Queen Junior Larkin in 1994. Both Larkin and Byrne appeared on The Late Late Show television programme to speak about the book, after which Larkin was recognised and attacked. She also reported in the GCN on the petitions, protest vigils and even death threats made to The Late Late Show's presenter, Gay Byrne, after two former American nuns and lesbians, Rosemary Curb and Nancy Manahan were interviewed in 1985 to promote their book, Lesbian Nuns: Breaking Silence on the programme. In 2000, she contributed to the book Lesbian and Gay Visions of Ireland.
In 2005, Byrne began a blog, for which she has received awards at the Irish Blog Awards including Best News and Current Affairs Blog 2008, 2009 and 2010. She was founder of the Sapphic Ireland forum and discussing Irish politics and the campaign towards marriage equality on Twitter. She attended Sligo Lesbian Gay Bisexual and Transgendered Pride in 2007.
In 2014, Byrne contributed to the oral history book In the Name of Love: The Movement for Marriage Equality in Ireland by Una Mullally.
Byrne has been employed by organisations supporting individuals with disabilities, including the National Advocacy Service for People with Disabilities and Greater Dublin Independent Living. She has worked as a Director for Ireland's national railway operator Iarnród Éireann, working on ensuring that the rail services are accessible.
In 2017, Byrne announced the formation of the Disabled Women of Ireland (DWI), an organisation open to women, transgender and non-binary people with physical and intellectual disabilities, hearing and sight impairments and members of the Deaf community. At the inaugural meeting she commented about her hopes that the organisation would "bring forward new generations of leaders". Byrne has advocated for independent living for people with disabilities, has raised awareness of the harmful assumptions made about women with disabilities and how disabled women are hugely impacted by debates about abortion rights in Ireland.
In 2018, Byrne shared what journalists who have no direct personal experience of disability, racism or homophobia can do to improve how they frame their subjects and stories and how they can champion minority voices on the Our Man In Stockholm podcast.
In 2021, Byrne was interviewed by the LGBTQ+ education charity ShoutOut for their Know Your Queer History series. In 2023, Byrne participated in a "Fifty Years of Feminism" live podcast recording at Mansion House, Dublin, in celebration of International Women's Day and to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the National Women's Council of Ireland. She discussed the anxiety currently being felt in the lesbian, gay, transgender and non-binary community.
As of 2022, Byrne was a regional manager for the National Advocacy Service for People with Disabilities and chair of the Irish Council for Civil Liberties Board of Directors. She also chaired the International Lesbian and Gay Youth Organisation (IGLYO).


== See also ==
LGBT rights in the Republic of Ireland


== References ==

Random.org (stylized as RANDOM.ORG) is a website that produces random numbers based on atmospheric noise.
In addition to generating random numbers in a specified range and subject to a specified probability distribution, which are the most commonly activities on the site, it has free tools to simulate events such as flipping coins, shuffling cards, and rolling dice. It also offers paid services to generate longer sequences of random numbers and act as a third-party arbiter for raffles, sweepstakes, and promotions. Random.org is distinguished from pseudo-random number generators, which use mathematical formulae to produce random-appearing numbers.
The website was created in 1998 by Mads Haahr,
a computer science professor at Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland. Random numbers are generated based on atmospheric noise captured by several radios tuned between stations.


== Bits ==
A binary digit (bit) can be either 0 or 1. There are several Random.org radios located in Copenhagen, Dublin, and Ballsbridge, each generating 12,000 bits per second from the atmospheric noise picked up. The generators produce a continuous string of random bits which are converted into the form requested (integer, Gaussian distribution, etc.).


== Quota ==
There are limits to the number of bits supplied to a particular IP address. A new user (identified by IP address) starts with a free-of-charge quota of 1,000,000 bits which is depleted every time bits are supplied, and topped up by 200,000 bits (or to 1,000,000 bits if the user has more than 800,000 bits remaining) every day at midnight UTC. Larger numbers of bits can be purchased.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
HTTP client implementations for various programming languages.

"Broodje Bakpao" is a song recorded by Dutch rapper Big2, from the hip hop duo The Opposites, featuring rappers Gers and Sef. The song is based on the popular Dutch sketch show New Kids. The single was released on 4 December 2009 through TopNotch. It was produced by Big2, and co-written by Twan van Steenhoven, Yousef Gnaoui, Gerwin Pardoel and Steffen Haars. The single became a success in the Netherlands and Belgium.


== Background ==
The single is based on the Dutch comedy sketch show New Kids, a popular television series in the Netherlands, with the programme's popularity being the main reason behind the success of "Broodje Bakpao". The song lyrics refer to the consumption of Bakpau, a Chinese Indonesian dish often popular in the Netherlands, where it is known as a "broodje Bapao".


== Chart performance ==
"Broodje Bakpao" became a success in the Netherlands and Flanders. In the Netherlands, the song reached number 1 in the Mega Single Top 100, where it stayed at the top for two weeks. It reached number 2 in the Dutch Top 40 and remained there for three weeks. In Flanders, the song reached the third position in the Ultratop 50.


== Music video ==
In the music video, the characters of New Kids are eating Bakpau. As of December 2015, the video on YouTube was watched over 3.4 million times. The cover art of the single is a screenshot of the music video.


== Track listing ==
CD single
"Broodje Bakpao" – 3:15


== Personnel ==
Songwriting – Twan van Steenhoven, Yousef Gnaoui, Gerwin Pardoel, Steffen Haars
Production – Big2


== Charts and certifications ==


== Release history ==


== References ==

South Arm Township is a civil township of Charlevoix County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The population was 1,939 at the 2020 census.


== Communities ==
Dwight was a historic community within the township.  It began with a rural post office that opened on May 28, 1866 with local storekeeper DeGrove  Haight serving as the first postmaster.  The post office operated until July 19, 1898.
Intermediate is a former settlement located along middle section of the south arm of Pine Lake (now Lake Charlevoix).  A post office named Intermediate operated from March 2, 1874 until November 30, 1892.
Nelsonville is a former community that was settled in Antrim County as early as 1865 by the lumbering firm Nelson, Reddington & Company.  When the area became part of the newly-organized Charlevoix County, Nelsonville received a post office on April 26, 1869.  The post office closed and was transferred to South Arm on November 23, 1874.
Sedan was a community within the township that began with a post office that opened on May 31, 1878 just north of East Jordan.  The community's name may have derived from the recent Battle of Sedan (1870) of the Franco-Prussian War.  The post office operated until February 1, 1883.
South Arm is a historic settlement within the township.  It was named for its location along the south arm of Pine Lake (now Lake Charlevoix).  It began when Soloman Isaman purchased 80 acres (32 ha) of land here in 1867.  By 1873, he had built his home and a general store, and he became the first postmaster when a post office named South Arm opened on November 23, 1874.  In 1877, South Arm was absorbed into the newly incorporated village of East Jordan.  The South Arm post office operated until June 30, 1905.


== Geography ==
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the township has a total area of 32.68 square miles (84.64 km2), of which 30.64 square miles (79.36 km2) is land and 2.04 square miles (5.28 km2) (6.24) is water.
The township contains a coastline along the southern arm of Lake Charlevoix.


=== Major highways ===
 M-32 (Maple Street) enters the township briefly in the southeast portion of the township and terminates in the city of East Jordan.
 M-66 runs along the coast of Lake Charlevoix and through East Jordan.
 C-48 is a county-designated highway that runs west–east through the center portion of the township.


== Demographics ==
As of the census of 2000, there were 1,844 people, 670 households, and 517 families residing in the township.  The population density was 60.0 inhabitants per square mile (23.2/km2).  There were 947 housing units at an average density of 30.8 per square mile (11.9/km2).  The racial makeup of the township was 96.10% White, 1.68% Native American, 0.11% Asian, 1.25% from other races, and 0.87% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.63% of the population.
There were 670 households, out of which 33.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 69.0% were married couples living together, 4.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 22.7% were non-families. 18.7% of all households were made up of individuals, and 8.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 2.60 and the average family size was 2.96.
In the township the population was spread out, with 25.1% under the age of 18, 5.3% from 18 to 24, 26.5% from 25 to 44, 26.5% from 45 to 64, and 16.7% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 41 years. For every 100 females, there were 97.4 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 93.8 males.
The median income for a household in the township was $42,159, and the median income for a family was $48,438. Males had a median income of $31,964 versus $25,096 for females. The per capita income for the township was $17,554.  About 3.5% of families and 4.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 4.3% of those under age 18 and 6.3% of those age 65 or over.


== Education ==
South Arm Township is served by two separate public school districts.  The vast majority of the township is served by East Jordan Public Schools within the city of East Jordan.  A small portion of the southwest corner of the township is served by Ellsworth Community School to the west in the village of Ellsworth in Antrim County.


== References ==


=== Sources ===
Romig, Walter (October 1, 1986) [1973]. Michigan Place Names: The History of the Founding and the Naming of More Than Five Thousand Past and Present Michigan Communities (Paperback). Great Lakes Books Series. Detroit, Michigan: Wayne State University Press. pp. 166, 285, 391, 505, 523. ISBN 978-0-8143-1838-6.


== External links ==
South Arm Township official website

Dolní Branná is a municipality and village in Trutnov District in the Hradec Králové Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 1,000 inhabitants.


== Demographics ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

Joseph Patrick MacDonald, A.S.C. (December 15, 1906 - May 26, 1968) was a Mexico-born American cinematographer. An assistant cameraman from the early 1920s, he became a cinematographer in the 1940s and soon was working on Hollywood productions, mostly at 20th Century Fox. He was usually billed as Joe MacDonald.  He was the first Mexico-born cinematographer, and only the second overall, after Leon Shamroy, to film a movie in CinemaScope (How to Marry a Millionaire), as well as the first Mexico-born cinematographer to film a movie in Deluxe Color.


== Select filmography ==


== Accolades ==
Nominations

Academy Awards: Oscar, Best Cinematography, Black-and-White, for The Young Lions; 1959.
Academy Awards: Oscar, Best Cinematography, for Pepe; 1961.
Academy Awards: Oscar, Best Cinematography, for The Sand Pebbles; 1967.


== References ==


== External links ==
Joseph MacDonald at IMDb
Joseph MacDonald at the TCM Movie Database (archived)

Madhukar Toradmal (24 July 1932 – 2 July 2017) was a Marathi actor, writer, professor and translator who acted in numerous Marathi dramas and movies. He translated over 20 plays. He was associated with Marathi theatre since 1971 and performed in 16 different plays and a variety of roles. He died on 2 July 2017 in Mumbai.


== Career ==
He was better known as "Mama" in the Theater industry, as a matter of respect. He lost his father at the age of 10. His uncle was a police officer in Mumbai. His uncle took him to Mumbai and out in the Seth Anandila Potdar school. On the first day of school, he showed interest in a school play to his class teacher Jaykar Madam. Pratidnyapurto was his first play which he directed in the school. The play was written by Chintaman Vinayak Joshi. Later during his school and college days, he directed many plays.
After school and college education, he joined as clerk at Premier Automobiles Limited, Mumbai. Later in 1968, he moved to Ahmednagar and became a professor of English at a college in Ahmednagar. Toradmal quit his job to take the plunge into acting and straddled the world of Marathi theatre and cinema for more than five decades. He formed an organization called "Rasikranjan", dedicated to Marathi plays. He also played important roles in the plays of the organization like Natysampada, Natyamandar, The Goa Hindu Association etc.
He played a famous role in the play Tarun Turk Mhatare Ark, which he wrote and directed. More than 5000 shows were done. Initially the show was projected as not suitable for high class ladies by the media. But this show was a great success. On 14 January 1972, the play was put on three times in a single day at Bal Gandharva Ranga Mandir,Pune, which was an all-time record at that time. These shows were attended by famous personalities like Bal Thackeray, G. D. Madgulkar, Vasant Desai and many more.
He had done a lot of writing, including novels like Tisari Ghanta, Uttarmamayan, etc.


=== Translation work ===
He translated many novels and plays into the Marathi language. This includes a series called Buddhipramanyawad, by Dhondo Keshav Karve. This also includes translations of 27 novels by Agatha Christie from English to Marathi.


== Stage appearances - Character name and play ==
Aba (Bap Bilandar Beta Kalandar) आबा (बाप बिलंदर बेटा कलंदर)
Akhercha Saval अखेरचा सवाल
Bhovara भोवरा
Indrasen Angre (Indrasen Angre) इंद्रसेन आंग्रे (काळे बेट लाल बत्ती)
Daku (Sangharsh) डाकू (संघर्ष)
Docter (Goodbye Docter) डॉक्टर (गुड बाय डॉक्टर)
Docter Vishwamitra (Gosht Janmantarichi) डॉक्टर विश्वामित्र (गोष्ट जन्मांतरीची)
Deenanath (Chandne SHimpit Ja) दीनानाथ (चांदणे शिंपीत जा)
Dhanraj (Beiman) धनराज (बेईमान)
Professor (Aashchary Number 10) प्रोफेसर (आश्चर्य नंबर दहा)
Professor Bartakke (Tarun Turk Mhatare Ark) प्रोफेसर बारटक्के (तरुण तुर्क म्हातारे अर्क)
Bahadursingh (Sainik Navacha Manus) बहादुरसिंग (सैनिक नावाचा माणूस)
Barrister Devdatta (Akhercha Saval) बॅरिस्टर देवदत्त (अखेरचा सवाल)
Bhishma (Matsygandha) भीष्म (मत्स्यगंधा)
Mama (Soubhagy) मामा (सौभाग्य)
Ramshstri (Mrugtrushna) रामशास्त्री (मृगतृष्णा)
Lalya (Gharat Fulala Parijat) लाल्या (घरात फुलला पारिजात)
Sarjan Kamat (Chafa Bolena) सर्जन कामत (चाफा बोलेना)


== Filmography ==
Bala Gau Kashi Angai (1977)
Sinhasan (1979) as Daulatrao
Shabas Sunbai (1986)
Raakh (1989) as Karmali Shet
Nirantharam (1995) Telugu film


== Television ==
Sangharsh


== Awards received ==
2009-10 Jeevan Gaurav award by Maharashtra government
2012- Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad


== Family ==
Toradmal had three daughters. One of the girls is Trupti Toradmal.


== Death ==
Toradmal was found dead in his residence on 2 July 2017. Earlier, he was admitted to Asian Heat hospital but his condition was not improving. He was suffering from kidney failure. Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis condoled his passing. "With his demise, we have lost a versatile and multi-talented personality who enriched Marathi theatre and cinema."


== References ==

The Bellavista housing estate designed by Arne Jacobsen is the clearest example of Bauhaus architecture in Denmark. Completed in 1934, the estate is located just north of Copenhagen, in Klampenborg, Gentofte Municipality, next to Jacobsen's Bellevue Beach, which had been completed a couple of years earlier.


== Background ==
While still a student, Jacobsen travelled to Germany where he was attracted by the Modernist architecture of Mies van der Rohe and Walter Gropius, both pioneers of the Bauhaus school. This encouraged him to collaborate with his old friend Flemming Lassen in designing the "House of the Future" which won the Danish Architects Association's competition in 1929. In 1930, Jacobsen designed the Functionalist, white-plastered Rothenborg House on Klampenborgvej in Klampenborg, planned and furnished as a total work of art. The building was warmly received, not only by the Danish press but by its occupants.
Shortly after he had completed the Bellevue Beach bathing centre, Jacobsen received a commission from Gentofte Municipality to build an apartment complex in the same area. It was specified that the buildings should have flat roofs, that they should not have more than three storeys, and that those facing the coast road and the sea beyond should not be more than two storeys high. Jacobsen decided to construct his 68 modern, well-fitted apartments in a U-shaped configuration consisting of three wings overlooking a central lawn. The name Bellavista stemmed from the Bella Vista villa which had previously stood on the site. The Bellavista development has been listed since 1987.


== Architecture ==

The buildings are built of brick with a whitewashed finish and iron girders between the floors. The roofs are tar-papered, the window frames are teak and the balconies have reinforced concrete fencing. In order to take full advantage of the sea view, Jacobsen staggered the facades of the north and south wings so that each apartment has two rooms with views over the sea. The sea can also be seen from the balconies which are integrated into the structure of the buildings rather than protruding outwards as was the usual practice at the time. The south wing which stands on lower ground has a basement with garages. The largest apartments are those in the west wing, behind the two others and parallel to the coast road, where there is no requirement for a staggered facade. A few shops were also included in the complex. Jacobsen succeeded in creating interesting effects with his floor displacements, rounded corners, and the latticework over the balconies. The shadows over the white surface of the buildings create ever changing impressions as the day progresses. With their white-washed facades and corner windows, the buildings instill an atmosphere of exotic, elegant modernity, so typical of Functionalism. Bellavista allowed Jacobsen to realize his dream of a modern town.


== Neighbouring Jacobsen works ==
In the immediate vicinity of the Bellavista estate, Jacobsen also designed the Bellevue Theatre and what is now called Restaurant Jacobsen which also functions as a small Arne Jacobsen museum. Jacobsen's Skovshoved Filling Station, with its unique mushroom-like canopy, is located on the coast road some 2 km to the south. All three date from 1936. Mattsson's Riding Hall (Danish: Mattssons Ridehal) is a whitewashed, reinforced-concrete riding arena near Klampenborg Station behind the estate. In 1934, at the request of its owner, Axel Mattsson, Jacobsen transformed older buildings into a luxurious riding centre better suited to its demanding clientele. After the war, Jacobsen designed the Søholm terraced houses located some 400 metres to the south of Bellavista. He lived and worked in the house closest to the sea (Strandvejen 413) from 1951 until his death in 1971.


== Assessment ==
In "Design 1935-1965, What Modern was", R. Craig Miller notes that Jacobsen’s work "is an important and original contribution both to modernism and to the specific place Denmark and the Scandinavian countries have in the modern movement. One might in fact argue that much of what the modern movement stands for, would have been lost and simply forgotten if Scandinavian designers and architects like Arne Jacobsen would not have added that humane element to it."


== References ==


== Literature ==
Thau, Carsten; Vindum, Kjeld: Arne Jacobsen, 2008, Copenhagen, Arkitektens forlag, 560 p. ISBN 978-87-7407-230-0


== External links ==
Arne Jacobsen i Gentofte, Danish-language account of Jacobsen's works in Gentofte Municipality with many photographs
 Media related to Bellavista housing estate at Wikimedia Commons

Cersobleptes (Ancient Greek: Kερσoβλέπτης, romanized: Kersobleptēs, also found in the form Cersebleptes, Kersebleptēs) was the son of Cotys I, king of the Odrysians in Thrace, on whose death in September 360 BC he inherited the throne. 


== Early troubles ==
From the beginning of his reign, however, Cersobleptes was beset by problems. He inherited a conflict with the Athenians and with the rebel former royal treasurer Miltokythes from his father, and then there appeared two rivals for the throne, Berisades and Amadocus II. Despite the continued able service of Cersobleptes' brother-in-law, the Euboean adventurer Charidemus, Cersobleptes was forced to make peace with Athens and with his rivals, recognizing them as autonomous rulers of parts of Thrace by 357 BC. The area controlled by Cersobleptes was apparently to the east of the rivers Tonzos and Hebrus, with Amadocus II to his west, and Berisades even farther west, on the border with Macedon.
Charidemus had taken on a prominent role in the contests and negotiations with Athens for the possession of the Thracian Chersonese, with Cersobleptes appearing throughout as a mere puppet of Charidemus. The peninsula seems to have been finally ceded to the Athenians in 357 BC, though they did not occupy it with their settlers until 353 BC; Isocrates is less certain about the earlier date. For some time after the cession of the Chersonese, Cersobleptes continued to court the favor of the Athenians, being perhaps restrained from aggression by the fear of the Athenian fleet based in the Hellespont.


== Allying with Athens against Macedon ==
In 357–356 BC, Philip II of Macedon began to expand at expense of his eastern neighbors, taking advantage of a rebellion among the allies of Athens to seize Amphipolis and Crenides, which he renamed after himself "Philippi", as well as the gold mines of Mount Pangaeum. Some of this expansion was at the expense of Berisades, who died about the same time, and was succeeded by his sons, Cetriporis and his brothers. Cersobleptes and Charidemus conceived the idea of depriving the sons of Berisades of their inheritance, and of obtaining possession of all the former dominions of Cotys. With this objective in mind, Charidemus gained from the Athenian people, through his party among the orators, a decree in his favor. In response to this outcome, Demosthenes delivered a speech (which still exists) through which he unsuccessfully tried to impeach the mover of the decree, Aristocrates. But before the scheme of Cersobleptes and Charidemus could succeed, Cetriporis provoked the ire of Philip II of Macedon by joining the kings of Paeonia and Illyria against him, leading to Philip's victory over the allies and the expansion of Macedonian influence in this part of Thrace.
From a passing reference in Demosthenes' oration, it appears that by 354 or 353 BC Philip II was at Maroneia, negotiating with Cersobleptes' envoy Apollonides, apparently planning for a joint attack against Amadocus II and the Athenian holdings in the Chersonese; the Theban general Pammenes was also involved. However, the plans failed, and Cersobleptes allied with Athens in exchange for Athens removing its protection from Amadocus II. Athens began to plant cleruchies in the Chersonese, while Cersobleptes attacked both Amadocus II to his west and the Greek cities of Perinthus and Byzantium to his east. Provoked by Cersobleptes' alliance with Athens, Philip II now invaded Cersobleptes' kingdom as an ally of Perinthus and Byzantium in 352 BC. Cersobleptes was defeated and had to send one of his sons as hostage to Philip's court at Pella. Philip appears to have annexed the lands of the sons of Berisades, who may have been the Thracian brothers who are said to have invited him to settle their disputes; Amadocus II disappears as well, perhaps deposed by either Philip II or Cersobleptes, and at any rate succeeded by Teres III.


== Macedonian conquest and probable death ==
After an apparent lull in hostilities, in 347–346 BC Cersobleptes appears to have sought Athenian support again, and Athens installed additional garrisons in the coastal cities of Thrace, perhaps provoking a Macedonian campaign under Philip's general Antipater. When Athens attempted to include Cersobleptes in a peace with Philip II in 346 BC, the proposal was rebuffed, and Philip proceeded to campaign in Thrace, expelling Athenian garrisons from the coastal towns. Several years later, in 342–340 BC, Philip II led a more substantial campaign into Thrace. By early 341 he had overrun the coast, passed through Cardia, Aenus and taken Cabyle. The remainder of the campaign brought Philip into the lands beyond Mount Haemus and into conflict with the Getae and contact with the Scythians. Sometime in this period, in unknown circumstances, the Thracian kings Teres III and Cersobleptes had been eliminated or subjugated, and the towns of Philippopolis and Cabyle were established as Macedonian colonies. By 340 BC, Philip II was laying siege to Perinthus and Byzantium.  


== Sons and succession ==
According to an inscription from Delphi (FD III.1 392), dated to 355 BC, Cersobleptes had four sons, named Iolaus, Poseidonius, Medistas, and Teres. It is unclear whether any of them inherited any sort of authority from their father. The next significant Odrysian king in Thrace was Seuthes III, sometimes identified (hypothetically) as a son or brother of Cersobleptes, or with a Seuthes known to have served as Cersobleptes' deputy (hyparkhos).


== References ==
D. Dana, Inscriptions, in: J. Valeva et al. (eds.), A Companion to Ancient Thrace, Wiley, 2015: 243–264.
P. Delev, Thrace from the Assassination of Kotys I to Koroupedion (360-281 BCE), in: J. Valeva et al. (eds.), A Companion to Ancient Thrace, Wiley, 2015: 48–58.
Hammond, N. G. L.; "Philip's Actions in 347 and Early 346 B.C." in Classical Quarterly, v. 44 (1994), pp. 367–374.
Smith, William; Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology, "Cersobleptes", Boston, (1867)
M. Tacheva, The Kings of Ancient Thrace. Book One, Sofia, 2006.


== Notes ==

 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, William, ed. (1870). "Cersobleptes". Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology.

Boston Calling Music Festival is a music festival held in Boston, Massachusetts, United States. It debuted in May 2013 at City Hall Plaza and took place twice a year, in May and September, through 2015. In 2016, the festival transitioned to being held annually in the second half of May, and since 2017 its venue has been Harvard Athletic Complex in the Allston neighborhood of Boston.
Past performers of Boston Calling have included The National, Sia, Beck, My Morning Jacket, Brandi Carlile, Of Monsters and Men, Fun, Kendrick Lamar, Passion Pit, Vampire Weekend, Modest Mouse, Airborne Toxic Event, Disclosure, Clairo, Eminem, Twenty One Pilots, Travis Scott, Tame Impala, Nine Inch Nails, Metallica, Luke Combs, Avril Lavigne, and Dave Matthews Band.
The festival was initially produced by Crash Line Productions, a Boston-based entertainment production company. Subsequently, the festival has been produced by Boston Calling Events, which was purchased by the Madison Square Garden Company in 2016, and by 2023 was owned by Live Nation Entertainment.


== History ==


=== Conception ===
Boston Calling was created by Brian Appel and Mike Snow, who had been colleagues at the now defunct independent alternative rock station  WFNX Radio. The festival had initially been conceived as an event associated with the station but when WFNX was purchased by Clear Channel and stopped broadcasting in 2012, Appel and Snow continued development, seeing an opportunity to fill a gap as Boston had previously not had a large music festival. Appel and Snow considered it in important that Boston Calling be an urban festival, with Appel saying "[it was] critically important that [we] were in the city limits and that it was T-accessible and that we weren’t on the far reach on the outskirts of town that would make it challenging for people to get to". This complicated planning due to traffic and security considerations, and required extensive coordination with Boston city government.
Information about the new music festival for Boston appeared in a front-page article of The Boston Globe on February 27, 2013. The Boston Calling name "was inspired by the classic Clash album London Calling." The festival lineup was curated with help from Aaron Dessner of the band The National.


=== 2013-2019 ===
The festival debuted in May 2013, for two days over Memorial Day weekend at  City Hall Plaza. The festival was notable as the first major event in the city since the Boston Marathon Bombings, and was received positively, selling out early and collecting praise for the musical performances and smoothly run logistics. The second iteration of the festival was held the following September, establishing a twice-yearly format used through 2016. The festival's first two editions were two-day events. In its second year, Boston Calling expanded to three days.
Due to the proximity to the Marathon Bombing, early iterations of the event saw heightened security. In August of 2014, DigBoston reported that during the 2013 festivals, the city of Boston had spent $650,000 to test IBM software that monitored concertgoers from existing security cameras, leading to criticism for not notifying concertgoers.  Participants in the test were reportedly able to search for people by head color, skin tone, clothing texture, and baldness. The program could monitor the number of persons at the event and whether anyone was in a restricted area.
In 2016, a controlling interest Boston Calling Events, was purchased by the Madison Square Garden Company and the festival transitioned to being held annually in the second half of May. In 2017 its venue changed to Harvard Athletic Complex in the Allston neighborhood of Boston, with the new space allowing the addition of more music stages and the inclusion of non-music performers. The festival reportedly attracted 20,000–22,000 fans with its earlier editions, eventually drawing roughly 40,000 festival goers in 2017.


=== 2020–2021 Cancellations ===
On March 31, 2020, it was announced that the 2020 Boston Calling Festival was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The organizers offered refunds for tickets, as well as the option to roll tickets over to the 2021 festival. When the 2021 festival was also cancelled, the same options were available.


=== 2022–2025 ===
In 2022, the festival returned, with headliners Metallica and Nine Inch Nails, with Nine Inch Nails headling back-to-back shows after a cancellation. By 2023, the festival was a subsidiary of Live Nation Entertainment .
In 2024, the event was criticized for overcrowding and potentially unsafe conditions as festival goers moved between stages, with attendance on Sunday estimated at 40,000 up from only 16,000 the day prior. Organizers later issuing a statement addressing dangerous conditions and promising to "create a better environment for everyone."
In response, the 2025 festival used a single main stage, and the on-site indoor arena was opened to festival attendees for the first time in six years to add access to an air conditioned indoor space for festival goers.


=== 2026 hiatus ===
On June 20, 2025, festival organizers announced a hiatus for 2026, for unspecified reasons, with plans for the next edition to be held June 4–6, 2027. Days later, Boston mayor Michelle Wu stated in a radio interview that organizers felt other Boston activities during 2026—including United States Semiquincentennial (250th anniversary) celebrations and several 2026 FIFA World Cup games (scheduled for Gillette Stadium south of Boston)—were expected to place "a lot of strain on hotel rooms and events and sponsorships."


== Past Lineups ==
Boston Calling was held twice a year, in May and September, during 2013–2015. The festival's first two editions were two-day events. In its second year, Boston Calling expanded to three days.


=== 2013 ===


==== Spring ====
The first Boston Calling, held May 25–26, 2013, featured:
Saturday line-up

Sunday line-up


==== Fall ====
The second Boston Calling, held September 7–8, 2013, featured: 


=== 2014 ===


==== Spring ====
The third Boston Calling, held May 23–25, 2014, featured: 

Friday line-up
Saturday line-up

Sunday line-up


==== Fall ====

The fourth Boston Calling, held September 5–7, 2014, featured: 
The National, Lorde, The Replacements, Nas x The Roots, Neutral Milk Hotel, Childish Gambino, Spoon, Girl Talk, The 1975, Volcano Choir, Twenty One Pilots, The War on Drugs, The Hold Steady, Lake Street Dive, Bleachers, White Denim, Sky Ferreira, Future Islands, San Fermin, S. Carey, CliffLight, and Gentlemen Hall.


=== 2015 ===


==== Spring ====
The fifth Boston Calling, held May 22–24, 2015, featured: 
Beck, Pixies, My Morning Jacket, Ben Harper and the Innocent Criminals, Tenacious D, Tame Impala, St. Vincent, TV on the Radio, Marina and the Diamonds, Jason Isbell, Gerard Way, Tove Lo, Chet Faker, Run the Jewels, The Lone Bellow, Sharon Van Etten, Jungle, MØ, ILoveMakonnen, DMA's, The Ballroom Thieves, and Krill.


==== Fall ====
The sixth Boston Calling, held September 25–27, 2015, featured: 
The Avett Brothers, Alt-J, Alabama Shakes, Hozier, Of Monsters and Men, Chvrches, Ben Howard, Chromeo, Walk the Moon, Nate Ruess, Father John Misty, Sturgill Simpson, MisterWives, Gerard Way and the Hormones, Daughter, Twin Shadow, Stephen Malkmus and the Jicks, Fidlar, Doomtree, Gregory Alan Isakov, Grizfolk, Bully, Dirty Bangs, and Grey Season.


=== 2016 ===
The seventh Boston Calling, held May 27–29, 2016, featured: 
Sia, Disclosure, Robyn, ODESZA, Sufjan Stevens, Haim, Miike Snow, Janelle Monáe, City and Colour, Courtney Barnett, Elle King, The Front Bottoms, BØRNS, Charles Bradley and his Extraordinaires, The Vaccines, Vince Staples, Battles, Unknown Mortal Orchestra, Christine and the Queens, Lisa Hannigan and Aaron Dessner, Lizzo, Palehound, and Michael Christmas.


=== 2017 ===
The eighth Boston Calling was held May 26–28, 2017. The event was staged for the first time at the Harvard Athletic Complex and featured: 
Chance the Rapper, Bon Iver, Sigur Ros, Migos, Mac Demarco, Sylvan Esso, Car Seat Headrest, Francis and the Lights, Deerhoof, Whitney, Lucy Dacus, Vundabar, Xylouris White, Mumford and Sons, The xx, The 1975,  Nathaniel Rateliff and the Night Sweats, Tegan and Sara, Brandi Carlile, Majid Jordan, Oh Wonder, Danny Brown, Cousin Stizz, Russ, Strand of Oaks, Moses Sumney, Kevin Morby, Tkay Maidza, Alexandra Savior, Tool, Major Lazer, Weezer, Cage the Elephant, Run the Jewels, Flatbush Zombies, Converge, Piebald, Wolf Parade, Frightened Rabbit, Buffalo Tom, PUP, Hiss Golden Messenger, The Hotelier, and Mondo Cozmo.


=== 2018 ===
The ninth Boston Calling was held on May 25–27, 2018, at the Harvard Athletic Complex. The headliners were Eminem, The Killers and Jack White.

Line-up


=== 2019 ===
The 10th edition of the festival was held on May 24–26, 2019, at the Harvard Athletic Complex. The headliners this year were Twenty One Pilots, Travis Scott, and Tame Impala.
Line-up

Comedy & entertainment


=== 2022 ===
The 11th edition of the festival was held on May 27–29, 2022, at the Harvard Athletic Complex. The headliners this year were Metallica who headlined on Sunday, and Nine Inch Nails headlining both Friday as a replacement for The Foo Fighters who cancelled due to the death of long-time drummer Taylor Hawkins and Saturday as a last minute replacement of The Strokes after they cancelled due to COVID-19. The festival was evacuated for approximately two hours on Saturday due to severe weather.
Friday line-up

Saturday line-up

Sunday line-up


=== 2023 ===
The 12th edition of the festival was held on May 26–28, 2023, at the Harvard Athletic Complex. The main headliners this year were Foo Fighters (in their first major concert since drummer Taylor Hawkins' death the previous year), The Lumineers and Paramore, with co-headlining slots taken by the Yeah Yeah Yeahs (cancelled due to illness), Alanis Morissette and Queens of the Stone Age.

Friday line-up

Saturday line-up

Sunday line-up


=== 2024 ===
The 13th edition of the festival was held on May 24–26, 2024, at the Harvard Athletic Complex. The main headliners were Ed Sheeran, Tyler Childers, and The Killers, with co-headlining slots taken by Leon Bridges, Trey Anastasio, and Hozier.
After an estimated 16,000 people attended the Saturday show, attendance on Sunday was estimate at 40,000, which strained logistics and led to organizers later issuing a statement addressing dangerous conditions and promising to "create a better environment for everyone."
Friday line-up

Saturday line-up

Sunday line-up


=== 2025 ===
The 14th edition of the festival was held on May 23–25, 2025, at the Harvard Athletic Complex. The main headliners were Luke Combs, Fall Out Boy, and Dave Matthews Band, with co-headlining slots taken by Megan Moroney, Avril Lavigne, and Vampire Weekend.
The festival used a large, single main stage, referred to as the green stage, rather than the two separate green and red main stages used in prior years. To improve transition times between sets, the green stage incorporated a rotating stage design. In addition to the green stage, the festival maintained the smaller, blue and orange stages. Additionally, the on-site indoor arena was opened to festival attendees for the first time in six years. Through a partnership with the Berklee College of Music, the arena showcased student musicians Tiril Jackson, Devon Gates & Friends, Su Yavuz, Srisley, Solaya + The Effect, Manuela Sanchez Goubert, and Aniye in addition to serving as an air conditioned indoor space available to festival goers.
Friday line-up

Saturday line-up

Sunday line-up


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

Dersimli Diyap Ağa (Ottoman Turkish: درسیملی دیاب آغا; 1852 – 1932), or Diyap Yıldırım after the Surname Law, was Turkish politician, Ottoman and later Turkish military officer, politician for the Republican People's Party (CHP), and an Alevi religious and tribal leader of Kurdish-Zaza origin. He represented Dersim (later Tunceli) in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey from 1920 to 1923.


== Biography ==

Diyap Yıldırım was born in 1852 in the village of Kalecik in the Hozat district of Dersim(in the Bayram neighborhood of Kalecik village, formerly known as Hadişar) as the son of Seyithan Ağa from Hozat, and Elif Hanım. At a young age, he occupied the village of Gözlüçayır in Çemişgezek and settled there.  He was from an Alevi Kurdish family belonging to the Ferhatuşağı tribe, one of the Zaza tribes of the Ovacık-Hozat region. Despite being an Alevi, he was a commander of the Hamidiye Corps in World War I. He participated in the war with his tribe to get fight the Russians in Bitlis and Siirt. Around this time, he met Mustafa Kemal Atatürk. Mustafa Kemal Atatürk appreciated his efforts in the Turkish War of Independence and suggested deputyship to the dignitaries of Diyap Yıldırım and Dersim. He was appointed to the parliament with the help of Hasan Hayri. Diyap Yıldırım opposed Kurdish nationalism and the Koçgiri rebellion, Sheikh Said rebellion, and even the Dersim uprising led by his fellow Alevi Kurds. He claimed that Turkey was the sole representative of the Kurds at the Lausanne Conference. He also rejected many proposals for Kurdish independence, claiming that Kurds were obliged to identify as Turks. Although he was a member of the secular Kemalist government, he used his religious credentials and frequently made Islamic statements in support of Turkish nationalism. During the war with the Greeks, he opposed the idea of moving the parliament to Kayseri and on the rostrum of the parliament, stating "did we come here to escape, or to fight and die? If you want to move the assembly, go ahead. But I can't go. Even if I am alone, I will fight to my last bullet for my flag, religion, and homeland. I'll shoot the last bullet in my head. This is how you know."
He was specially opposed to the Sheikh Said revolt and stated "we heard that Sheikh Said rebelled. He came to Elaziz and raided the government. I swear we were surprised! We said 'did he come down from the sky or from the earth'. This traitor. Some of us waited in the hills in defence. We did not abandon Dersim. Everyone will later find whatever they find. There are many goat and sheep thieves here. But there are no traitors. This man was an enemy. He became a rebel to the state. We are the people who are connected to the Republic. In 1890, the British and Russian consulate encouraged us to rebel. They wanted to give a lot of money, we fired them, we didn't take the money."
He died on September 9, 1935, in Gözlüçayır, Çemişgezek, and was buried there.


== References ==

The action of 8 May 1941 was a single ship action fought during the Second World War by the British heavy cruiser HMS Cornwall and the Kriegsmarine (German Navy) auxiliary cruiser Pinguin/Schiff 33 (Raider F to the Admiralty). The engagement took place in the Indian Ocean off the Seychelles archipelago, north of Madagascar. Pinguin caused slight damage to Cornwall, before its fire on Pinguin caused an explosion and sank it.
A British sailor was killed on Cornwall and about c. 200 of the 222 British and Indian Merchant Navy prisoners on Pinguin, captured from over thirty merchant vessels, were also killed. Of the crew of 401 men, 323 were killed and 60 were rescued along with 22 of the Merchant Navy prisoners. Cornwall returned to Durban for repairs until 10 June.


== Background ==


=== HMS Cornwall ===
HMS Cornwall (Captain Percival Manwaring) was a County-class heavy cruiser of the Kent subclass, built in the mid-1920s. It had a displacement of 10,000 long tons (10,000 t), carried eight 8 in (200 mm) guns in four twin turrets, four 4 in (100 mm) anti-aircraft guns in two twin turrets, two four-barrelled 2-pounder pom-pom guns and two .50 in (13 mm) machine guns. Cornwall had an aircraft catapult, three Supermarine Walrus amphibious aircraft and had a maximum speed of 31.5 kn (58.3 km/h; 36.2 mph).


=== Pinguin ===

The auxiliary cruiser Pinguin/Schiff 33 (Kapitän Ernst-Felix Krüder), was originally the freighter Kandelfels, which had been launched in 1937 of 7,766 gross register tons, capable of 16 kn (30 km/h; 18 mph). After conversion to an auxiliary cruiser it became Schiff 33 to the Kriegsmarine (Raider F to the British). Pinguin was armed with six 150 mm (5.9 in) guns, a 75 mm (3.0 in) gun, two 37 mm (1.46 in) anti-aircraft guns, four 20 mm (0.79 in) autocannon, two torpedo tubes, 300 mines and an Arado Ar 196 A-1 floatplane. By 15 January, Pinguin had captured 14 Norwegian merchant vessels by commerce raiding. It had captured three 12,000 long tons (12,000 t) factory ships and eleven whalers belonging to the same whaling company. The prizes were sent to Occupied France where one was renamed Adjutant and was used as minelayer for the German raiders in the South Atlantic and the Indian Ocean. In April, Pinguin sank three British merchant ships in the Indian Ocean, close to the Equator.


== Prelude ==

After sinking Clan Buchanan on 28 April, Pinguin sailed north-west and on 4 May, fuelled and provisioned Adjutant, which was sent away to wait at a rendezvous near the Saya de Malha Bank. Just after 5:00 a.m. on 7 May, Pinguin intercepted and sank the 3,663 long tons (3,722 t) tanker British Emperor, which was on passage from Durban to Abadan, about 375 nmi (694 km; 432 mi) east-south-east of Cape Guardafui. Emperor had sent a distress message and Cornwall, en route to refuel at the Seychelles Islands, intercepted the message when about 520 nmi (960 km; 600 mi) south of the attack. Cornwall altered course to north-north-west and increased speed to 20 kn (37 km/h; 23 mph). A plan was devised to catch the raider, using the Walrus spotter aircraft carried by Cornwall to close the raider's furthest on line and then search to cover the largest potential variations of the raiding ship's speed and course.
Cornwall increased speed to 25.5 kn (47.2 km/h; 29.3 mph), heading north between the Seychelles and the Chagos Archipelago. Vice-Admiral Ralph Leatham, the Commander-in-Chief East Indies Station, ordered other ships to participate in the search. HMNZS Leander was sailing westwards at 25 kn (46 km/h; 29 mph) from Nine Degree Channel towards Socotra, while HMS Liverpool, which was north of Cape Guardafui, sailed for Eight Degree Channel, making for Colombo. HMS Glasgow, steaming from the Gulf of Aden, passed Cape Guardafui that morning at 23 kn (43 km/h; 26 mph), to a position about 100 nmi (190 km; 120 mi) south-east of the headland. The ship then turned south-west at 20 kn (37 km/h; 23 mph) towards the Equator, about 300 nmi (560 km; 350 mi) from the African coast. Farther west, the armed merchant cruiser HMS Hector, patrolled from the Equator to a position 300 nmi (560 km; 350 mi) to the south-west.

On the afternoon of 7 May, the two aircraft on Cornwall flew reconnaissance sorties for three hours and then altered course to get on the line of the main Vignot search. This was plotted for a mean speed of 13 kn (24 km/h; 15 mph) for an hour after the time of the raider report, assuming that the raider needed an hour to sink British Emperor and then depart at full speed until dark. At 9:30 p.m., Cornwall turned onto a bearing of east-south-east and slowed to search on this line, before the moon set. At dawn, Cornwall sent both aircraft to search an area three knots on either side of the raider's estimated speed and turned east at 18 kn (33 km/h; 21 mph) (steaming away from the raider).
At 7:07 a.m. on 8 May, one of the aircraft sighted a ship heading south-west at 13 kn (24 km/h; 15 mph), about 65 nmi (120 km; 75 mi) west of Cornwall but did not report the sighting until landing at about 8:00 a.m. At 8:25 a.m., Cornwall altered course to about west-by-south and increased speed to 23 kn (43 km/h; 26 mph). The second aircraft was launched again at 10:15 a.m. and at 12:23 p.m. it reported that the unknown ship was steaming at 15 kn (17 mph; 28 km/h) and had hoisted the signal letters of a Norwegian motor-vessel Tamerlane, which the raider resembled but was not on the list of expected ships.


== Battle ==

Cornwall increased speed to 26 kn (48 km/h; 30 mph) then to 28 kn (52 km/h; 32 mph). At 1:45 p.m., an aircraft was launched to give the bearing, course and speed of the suspected ship by wireless; the ship came into sight at 4:07 p.m. The ship began transmitting raider reports, claiming to be Tamerlane. Despite orders to heave-to and two warning shots, the ship maintained course and speed for more than an hour, until the range was less than 12,000 yd (11,000 m). At 5:10 p.m., Cornwall turned to port and the suspected raider made a larger turn to port, opening fire with five guns just before 5:15 p.m.
Due to mechanical failures, Cornwall did not return fire for about two minutes and was frequently straddled by shells fired at a rapid rate, before firing two salvoes from the forward 8-inch turrets. The fore steering gear of Cornwall was disabled by a 5.9-inch shell hit and after going out of control for a moment, the after steering gear used. By 5:18 p.m., all of Cornwall's guns had opened fire, with the advantage of superior range finders and director fire-control systems, instead of local gun control. A salvo hit mines on Pinguin, blowing up the ship at 5:26 p.m. that sank at 03°30'N, 57°48'E 500 nmi (930 km; 580 mi) north of the Seychelles, about 300 nmi (560 km; 350 mi) from where it had sunk British Emperor.


== Aftermath ==


=== Analysis ===
The commerce-raiding voyage of the Pinguin had lasted from 22 June 1940 – 8 May 1941 and the ship sank or captured 28 ships of 136,642 GRT. About 50,000 GRT of shipping was sent to Germany as prizes. Cornwall returned to Durban for repairs until 10 June; the tactics of the captain of Cornwall in shadowing, attempted to identify and closing with Pinguin was criticised by the Admiralty. The crew of Pinguin had been skilful in disguising the ship and it was difficult to approach a suspicious, yet unidentified ship. A raider had the tactical advantage in deciding when to open fire, before it was unmasked and investigating ships courted danger if the vessel approached from a direction favourable to a raider's guns and torpedoes. Allied ships were given secret call signs and a system was devised for the investigating ship to refer to the Admiralty by wireless to verify ship identities. The new methods made ship identification much easier but took months to implement and similar events occurred when ships were either allowed to sail on and turned out to be raiders or were intercepted and sprang a surprise on the British warship.

The success against Pinguin and other raiders was due to the navy Operational Intelligence Centre (OIC) of the Naval Intelligence Division, at the Admiralty. The OIC tracked raiders, based on the position of the sinking of Allied merchant ships and by collating rare sightings and distress signals. German commerce-raiders kept radio silence, avoided common shipping routes, searched for independently routed vessels and tried to prevent their victims from transmitting wireless messages. From May to November 1941, the Germans lost Pinguin and two more commerce raiders but Enigma decrypts by the Government Code and Cypher School (GC&CS) were only involved in one sinking.
German commerce-raiders used the Heimische Gewässer (Home Waters) Enigma settings, known as Dolphin to the British, before departing and when returning to Germany. The seven raiders at sea in May 1941 had sailed in 1940 before Enigma intelligence became available to the British. When at sea, Enigma-equipped raiders used the Ausserheimisch settings if they broke radio silence, which Hut 4 at Bletchley Park never managed to penetrate. Atlantis, the third raider lost in 1941, was sunk by HMS Devonshire on 22 November after the British read U-boat signals in the Heimische Gewässer setting, introduced in October 1941, to arrange a fuelling rendezvous.


=== Casualties ===
A British sailor, near the stern of Cornwall, was killed when Pinguin opened fire. Among the men on Pinguin were 222 British and Indian merchant sailors, captured from over thirty merchant vessels. Of the crew of 401 men, the captain and 322 others were killed and 60 were rescued, along with 22 of the Merchant Navy prisoners. In 2006, Roger Jordan wrote that 341 crew and prisoners were killed and that there were 87 survivors.


== Footnotes ==


== Bibliography ==


== Further reading ==
Actions with Enemy Disguised Raiders 1940–1941 (PDF). Battle Summary. London: Tactical, Torpedo and Staff Duties Division, Historical Section, Naval Staff, Admiralty. 1942. pp. 7–10. OCLC 221288026. Retrieved 7 April 2016.
Duffy, James P. (2001). Hitler's secret Pirate Fleet: The Deadliest ships of World War II (1st ed.). Westport, CN: Praeger. ISBN 0-275-96685-2.
Jackson, Ashley (2018). Of Islands, Ports and Sea Lanes: Africa and the Indian Ocean in the Second World War. War and Military Culture in South Asia, 1757–1947 No. 8. Warwick: Helion. ISBN 978-1-912390-74-8.
Lenton, H.T.; Colledge, J. J. (1968) [1964]. British and Dominion Warships of World War Two (orig. pub. Warships of World War II ed.). Garden City, NY: Doubleday. OCLC 440734.
Muggenthaler, A. K. (1977). German Raiders of World War II. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall. ISBN 978-0-13-354027-7.


== External links ==
Allen, T. Pinguin wrecksite
Waters, S. D. Operations of the Pinguin, in Episodes & Studies Volume 1, RNZ Navy, 1956

Matías Ezequiel Banco (born 3 July 1989) is an Argentine former footballer who played as a midfielder.


== Teams ==
He played for Chilean clubs like Unión San Felipe or Lota Schwager.

 Independiente Rivadavia 2008–2009
 Andes Talleres 2010
 Independiente Rivadavia 2010–2011
 Deportivo Guaymallén 2011–2012
 Unión San Felipe 2012–2013
 Unión San Felipe B 2012
 Lota Schwager 2013–2014
 Deportivo Guaymallén 2014–2015
 Deportivo Maipú 2015
 Luján de Cuyo 2016


== References ==


== External links ==
Matias Ezequiel Banco at BDFA (in Spanish)
Matías Ezequiel Banco at Soccerway
Matías Banco at WorldFootball.net

Antony John Blake (26 February 1927 – 31 October 2014) was an English professional footballer who played in the Football League for Birmingham City and Gillingham.
Blake was born in Cofton Hackett, Worcestershire. He played football for Rubery & Rednal British Legion as a centre forward before joining Birmingham City in October 1948. While in Birmingham's junior teams, Blake was converted to play at full back, and it was as a left back that he made his first-team debut on 18 February 1950, deputising for Dennis Jennings in the First Division match away at Bolton Wanderers, a game which Birmingham lost 1–0. Blake played once more that season, but then returned to the reserves, and in the 1952 close season moved on to Gillingham.
Due to injuries to other players, he made his Gillingham debut in his former position as a striker against Crystal Palace on 3 September 1952, and marked the occasion with a goal.  He made nine further appearances for the club during the 1952–53 season in his more usual defensive role, but then sustained a serious knee injury.  An operation in the spring of 1953 proved unsuccessful and he was forced into retirement.  He returned to the Midlands where he took a job at an engineering firm.
Blake died in Worcester in 2014 at the age of 87.


== References ==

Independence Centre or variation may refer to:

Independence Center, Independence, Missouri, US; a shopping mall
Independence Center (St. Louis), Missouri, US; a psychiatric rehabilitation center
Independence Events Center, Independence, Missouri, US; a multipurpose arena
Independence Visitor Center, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, US
101 Independence Center, Charlotte, North Carolina, US; an office building


== See also ==
Independence Mall (disambiguation)
Independence Hall (disambiguation)
Independence (disambiguation)
Centre (disambiguation)

The Men's team sprint competition at the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships 2025 was held on 5 March 2025.


== Results ==


=== Qualification ===
The qualification was started at 11:29.


=== Final ===
The final was started at 15:26.


== References ==

Shigeo Shingo (新郷 重夫, Shingō Shigeo; 1909–1990) was a Japanese industrial engineer who was considered as the world’s leading expert on manufacturing practices and the Toyota Production System.


== Life and work ==
After having worked as a technician specializing in fusions at the Taiwanese railways in Taipei, at the end of the World War II, in 1945, he started to work at the Japan Management Association (JMA) (ja:日本能率協会) in Tokyo, becoming a consultant focused on the improvement of factory management. Gathering tips from the improvement experiences in the field he had in 1950 at Toyo Ind. (now Mazda) and in 1957 at the sites in Hiroshima of the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, since 1969 Shingō got involved in some actions in Toyota Motor Corporation (Toyota) for the reduction of set-up time (change of dies) of pressing machines which took him to the formulation of a specific technique based on operational analysis, which shortened set-up times from 1 to 2 hours (or even half a day) per each exchange of dies to a rapid setting of a few minutes. The method spread out under the English denomination Single Minute Exchange of Die, abbreviated as SMED.
Shingo may well be known better in the West than in Japan, as a result of his meeting Norman Bodek, an American entrepreneur and founder of Productivity Inc. In 1981 Bodek travelled to Japan to learn about the Toyota Production System, coming across books by Shingō, who as an external consultant had been teaching Industrial engineering courses at Toyota since 1955. Since 1947, Shingō had been involved all over Japan in the training of thousands of people, who joined his courses on the fundamental techniques of analysis and improvement of the operational activities in factories (among which the P-Course, or Production Course).
Shingō had written his Study of the Toyota Production System in Japanese and had it translated into English in 1980. Bodek took as many copies of this book as he could to the USA and arranged to translate Shingo's other books into English, eventually having his original study re-translated. Bodek also brought Shingō to lecture in the USA and developed one of the first Western lean manufacturing consultancy practices with Shingō's support.
The relevance of his contribution has sometimes been doubted, but it is substantially confirmed by the opinions of his contemporaries, many saw him even as a contributor to the fundamental concepts of TPS, such as Just-in-time, and the “pull” production system, which were created by Toyota and Mr.Taiichi Ohno and still remain a strong logical and practical basis for the lean production and lean thinking management approaches.
The myth prevails that Shingo invented the Toyota Production System but what can be stated is that he did document the system. Shingo contributed to the formalization of some aspects of the management philosophy known as the Toyota Production System (TPS), developed and applied in Japan since the 1950s and later implemented in a huge number of companies in the world.
In 1988, the Jon M. Huntsman School of Business at Utah State University recognized Dr. Shingō for his lifetime accomplishments and created the Shingo Prize for Operational Excellence that recognizes world-class, lean organizations and operational excellence.
The theorist of important innovations related to Industrial engineering, such as Poka-yoke and the Zero Quality Control, Shingō could influence fields other than manufacturing.
For example, his concepts of SMED, mistake-proofing, and "zero quality control" (eliminating the need for inspection of results) have all been applied in the sales process engineering
Shingo was the author of several books including: A Study of the Toyota Production System; Revolution in Manufacturing: The SMED System; Zero Quality Control: Source Inspection and the Poka-yoke System; The Sayings of Shigeo Shingo: Key Strategies for Plant Improvement; Non-Stock Production: The Shingo System for Continuous Improvement and The Shingo Production Management System: Improving Process Functions.
Shigeo Shingo’s achievements were subsequently carried on by his son, Ritsuo Shingo. Through activities centered primarily in North America, the term “Kaizen” came into use in English and later spread to North America, Europe, China, and elsewhere. Today, his grandson, Kazunori Shingo (the eldest son of Ritsuo Shingo), continues that legacy.


== Education ==
Saga Technical High School
Yamanashi Technical College


== Bibliography ==
Shigeo Shingo: A Revolution in Manufacturing: The Smed System, Productivity Press, 1985 (in English), ISBN 0-915299-03-8
Shigeo Shingo: A Study of the Toyota Production System, Productivity Press, 1981 (in Japanese), 1989 (in English), ISBN 0-915299-17-8.
Shigeo Shingo: Modern Approaches to Manufacturing Improvement: The Shingo System, Productivity Press, 1990 (in English), ISBN 0-915299-64-X
Shigeo Shingo: Quick Changeover for Operators: The SMED System, Productivity Press, 1996 (in English), ISBN 1-56327-125-7
Shigeo Shingo: The Sayings of Shigeo Shingo: Key Strategies for Plant Improvement, Productivity Press, 1987 (in English), ISBN 0-915299-15-1
Shigeo Shingo: Zero Quality Control: Source Inspection and the Poka-Yoke System, Productivity Press, 1986 (in English), ISBN 0-915299-07-0
Shigeo Shingo: Non-Stock Production: The Shingo System for Continuous Improvement, Productivity Press, 1988 (in English), ISBN 0-915299-30-5
Shigeo Shingo: Mistake-Proofing for Operators: The ZQC System, Productivity Press, 1997 (in English), ISBN 1-56327-127-3
Shigeo Shingo: The Shingo Production Management System: Improving Process Functions (Manufacturing & Production), Productivity Press, 1992 (in English), ISBN 0-915299-52-6
Shigeo Shingo: Enfoques Modernos Para la Mejora En la Fabricacion: El Sistema Shingo, Productivity Press, 1992 (in Spanish), ISBN 84-87022-77-4
Shigeo Shingo: Produccion Sin Stocks: El Sistema Shingo Para la Mejora Continua, Productivity Press, 1991 (in Spanish), ISBN 84-87022-74-X
Shigeo Shingo: Das Erfolgsgeheimnis der Toyota-Produktion, Verlag moderne industrie, 1992 (in German), ISBN 3-478-91062-5
Shigeo Shingo: Kaizen and The Art of Creative Thinking, Enna Product Corporation and PCS Inc, 2007 (in English), ISBN 1897363591
Shigeo Shingo: Fundamental Principles of Lean Manufacturing, Enna Product Corporation and PCS Inc, 2009 (in English), ISBN 9781926537078


== See also ==
Taiichi Ohno (大野 耐一, Ōno Taiichi)
Just In Time (JIT)
Akira Kōdate
Shingo Prize
Taylorism
Toyota Production System


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Head, Simon: The New Ruthless Economy. Work and Power in the Digital Age, Oxford Oxford University Press 2005  - Head analyzes critically Shingo and the Toyota production system, ISBN 0-19-517983-8
Smalley, Art: Shigeo Shingo's Influence on TPS, in Superfactory, April 2006 (https://web.archive.org/web/20120630224714/http://www.superfactory.com/articles/featured/2006/0604-smalley-shingo-influence-tps.html)


== External links ==
Shingo Prize
Concise Bio

Ellen Nnana Ntsitse Molekane (born 2 August 1953) was South Africa's Deputy Minister of State Security between May 2014 and May 2019. A member of the African National Congress (ANC), she was a civil servant in the Department of Defence until President Jacob Zuma appointed her to the national executive. She was also briefly a member of the National Assembly from July 2018 to May 2019.


== Early life and education ==
Molekane was born on 2 August 1953 in Soweto. The second of seven siblings, she matriculated at the Morris Isaacson High School, where she joined the South African Students' Movement. Her early political involvements partly inspired the anti-apartheid activism of her younger brother, Rapu Molekane.


== Military career ==
After matriculating, Molekane worked briefly at Baragwanath Hospital in Johannesburg as a clerk and student nurse; she intended to work as a nurse or accountant. However, in 1977, she left South Africa to join the anti-apartheid African National Congress (ANC) in exile. Over the next 15 years, she was a full-time ANC operative, spending time in Swaziland, Mozambique, Tanzania, and Zambia; in Zambia in the 1980s, she was director of the ANC's religious desk and the treasurer of its Politico-Military Council. As a member of Umkhonto we Sizwe, she received military training in the German Democratic Republic, specialising in military engineering.
In 1991, amid the negotiations to end apartheid, Molekane returned to South Africa to work at ANC headquarters at Shell House, Johannesburg. After the end of apartheid in 1994, she was among the former MK operatives who were integrated into the new South African National Defence Force. Entering at the rank of lieutenant colonel, she worked in the public service for the next 20 years, predominantly at the Department of Defence, where she rose through the ranks to become a Deputy Director-General. Between 2002 and 2012, she was stationed in the ministerial office of Lindiwe Sisulu, following Sisulu from the Ministry of Intelligence to the Ministry of Housing and finally to the Ministry of Defence.
During the same period, she remained active in the ANC. At the ANC's 52nd National Conference in December 2007, she stood unsuccessfully for election to the party's National Executive Committee. Shortly thereafter she joined the committee by co-option.


== Deputy Minister of State Security: 2014–2019 ==
On 25 May 2014, shortly after that month's general election, President Jacob Zuma announced Molekane's appointment as Deputy Minister of State Security. She remained in that office throughout the term of the Fifth Parliament. The Daily Maverick said in 2018 that she was "almost imperceptible" to the public.
Initially appointed from outside Parliament, Molekane was sworn in to the National Assembly on 30 July 2018, filling the casual vacancy that was created by Fikile Mbalula's resignation. She did not stand for re-election in the 2019 general election.


== Publications ==
Molekane, Ellen (1996). "The Role of Women in the South African National Defence Force". African Security Review. 5 (5): 23–26. doi:10.1080/10246029.1996.9627822. ISSN 1024-6029.


== References ==


== External links ==
Ellen Molekane at People's Assembly

Hydrangea longifolia is a species of flowering plant in the family Hydrangeaceae endemic to Taiwan. It is an erect shrub that flowers in January. It occurs in forests at low to high elevations. It is closely related to Hydrangea involucrata from Japan.


== References ==

Quick Draw is a Western comedy television series created by Nancy Hower and John Lehr for Hulu. Lehr stars in and Hower directs this partly improvised half-hour comedy Western. The show follows Harvard graduate John Henry Hoyle who becomes the sheriff of Great Bend, Kansas, in 1875.
The show marks Hulu's third foray into original scripted programming. It premiered online on August 5, 2013.


== Overview ==
Fresh off the stagecoach from Harvard, Sheriff John Henry Hoyle and his reluctant Deputy Eli introduce the emerging science of forensics to hunt down the Wild West's most dangerous criminals.


== Cast and characters ==
John Lehr as Sheriff John Henry Hoyle, Harvard graduate
Nick Brown as Deputy Eli Brocias
Allison Dunbar as Honey Shaw
Alexia Dox as Pearl Starr
Bob Clendenin as Vernon Shank
Brian O'Connor as Cole Younger


== Production ==
On April 30, 2013, Hulu announced two new original television series, The Awesomes and Quick Draw. On August 5, Hulu debuted the first two episodes of Quick Draw.  On November 4, 2013, Hulu announced it would renew the show for a ten-episode second season, which began on August 7, 2014.


== Episodes ==


=== Season 1 (2013) ===


=== Webisodes ===


=== Season 2 (2014) ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Quick Draw at IMDb

The 1917 Central Michigan Normalites football team represented Central Michigan Normal School, later renamed Central Michigan University, as an independent during the 1917 college football season. In their first and only season under head coach Fred Johnson, the Central Michigan football team compiled a 1–2 record and were outscored by their opponents by a combined total of 70 to 7. In its only intercollegiate game, the team lost to the 1917 Michigan State Normal Normalites football team by a score of 63 to 0 at Ypsilanti, Michigan, on October 20, 1917. The Detroit Free Press reported: "Mt. Pleaaant failed to make a first down and gained only about 15 yards in the entire game, their team being light and lacking experience." The team's remaining games were against high school teams: a 7-0 victory over Bay City Western High School and an 8-0 loss to Mt. Pleasant High School.


== Schedule ==


== References ==

"Somebody's Son" is a song by Nigerian singer Tiwa Savage featuring American singer Brandy. It was released as the second single from the former's second EP Water & Garri (2021) by Motown Records and Universal Music South Africa on 12 October 2021. The song blends Afrobeats with R&B and soul, and explores themes of love and emotion. It received positive reviews from critics, who praised the vocal chemistry between Savage and Brandy and its mellow production. The song was nominated for Outstanding International Song at the 53rd NAACP Image Awards, and received other nominations from The Headies, The Beatz Awards, and the All Africa Music Awards.


== Background ==
In an interview with Dash Radio, Tiwa Savage said she had long admired American singer Brandy and described her as one of her favorite vocalists. She recalled that after moving to London, listening to Brandy's "I Wanna Be Down" inspired her to pursue singing, and that she would study and mimic the singer's vocal runs and ad-libs. Savage later explained that she later met Brandy through a mutual connection, which led to a studio session where Brandy suggested they record a song together. During the session, Savage presented "Somebody's Son", which she had already written.


== Critical reception ==
"Somebody's Son" received positive reviews from critics, who praised Tiwa Savage and Brandy's vocal chemistry, its romantic theme, and its mellow production. Solope Alatise from the Indiependent said the two's vocals "blend seamlessly" and its beat "creates a picture of intimacy and generational love." Alatise added that the song "makes you hopeful again" and concluded that it "hails new hope for love." Afrocritik's Abioye Damilare Samson included it in the publication's list of "10 Tiwa Savage Songs That Crowned Her the Queen of Afrobeats". He described the song as "a subtle heartbreak anthem" and "undeniably one of the most memorable cuts" from Water & Garri, further calling it an "international collaboration that was nothing short of flawless" where "the duo's voices glide effortlessly over the mellow production." Emmanuel Daraloye, writing for TheCable, called the track "a perfect blend of synergy between two world-class songstresses."
In a review for Pulse Nigeria, Motolani Alake described "Somebody's Son" as "the nucleus" of Water & Garri, adding that it "denounces men but still craves the warmth of romance" and suggested that it would have been more relatable with Simi instead of Brandy. Stephen Onu of Premium Times praised the song's "energy everyone would love to vibe to" and called it "simply enjoyable and danceable." Adewojumi Aderemi of The Native described "Somebody's Son" as "a nice upbeat pop number," commending Brandy for her "stunning voice," adding that the collaboration was "perfect" and hoped it would "get mainstream attention." Adanna O of TXT Mag said "Somebody's Son" was "the most upbeat song on [Water & Garri]" yet "the most heartbreaking," praising Brandy's "soft, warm and reassuring" vocals, concluding that the song felt like "a career highlight both for Tiwa, and dedicated Africans who have followed R&B for years." Gabriel Myers Hansen, reviewing for Music in Africa, characterized it as "a redemption song, an undeniable diva anthem" with "jolly drums and rosy harmonies" and "searing runs over a passionate chorus," noting that it "celebrates the vocal genius of both acts" and concluded that it "faces forward" rather than dwelling on heartbreak.


== Music video ==
The music video for "Somebody's Son" was directed by Meji Alabi and premiered following a YouTube Live event titled Shoot Your Shot Hotline on 12 October 2021. It features Tiwa Savage braiding Brandy's hair, alongside scenes depicting Black love, familial bonds, and sisterhood. The video includes a father and son with matching durags, a pregnant couple, an engaged couple, and men and boys embracing. Savage described the collaboration with Brandy as a "full-circle moment with [her] all-time idol" and said the song conveys "a message of hope." Brandy performs her verse as she is embraced by Savage and a chestnut-skinned man, and the two appear together in glamour and performance shots.


== Live performances ==
In December 2025, Tiwa Savage performed "Somebody's Son" at the WeLoveYa Festival in Cotonou. Footage of the performance garnered attention online after Savage became emotional on stage and briefly paused while holding back tears.


== Accolades ==


== Charts ==


== Credits and personnel ==
Credits adapted from Apple Music.

Tiwa Savage – vocals, songwriting
Brandy Norwood – vocals, songwriting
Segun "Mystro" Ajayi – production, songwriting, recording engineering
Richard "Rich" King – songwriting
Sunday Adegeye – songwriting
Oluwatosin Oguntade – songwriting
Michael "Mike" Manitshana – mixing, mastering
Peter Gonzales – immersive mixing


== References ==

Charlotte Verity, Lady Le Brun (born 1 June 1954) is a British painter and printmaker. She lives and works in Somerset, England. In 2016, a monograph on her work, titled Charlotte Verity, was published by Ridinghouse.


== Biography ==
Born in Germany, Verity studied at the Slade School of Art from 1973 to 1977, receiving a prize in her final year. In 1978, she was awarded a Boise travelling scholarship, which she used to study in Italy.
Verity has participated in group exhibitions such as the John Moores Painting Prize, the Whitechapel Gallery Open, the Hayward Annual, the Discerning Eye and the Royal Academy’s Summer Exhibition.
She has held solo exhibitions at Anne Berthoud Gallery (1984, 1988, 1990), Browse and Darby (1998, 2002, 2007), Purdy Hicks Gallery (2016), the Garden Museum in London (2011 and 2018), and the New Art Centre in Wiltshire (2019).
In 2001, Verity joined the faculty of the Royal Drawing School in London, where she continues to teach. In 2010, she was commissioned by Sir John Soane’s Museum to paint a portrait of its former director, Margaret Richardson.
A monograph on her work, Charlotte Verity, was published by Ridinghouse in 2016, featuring texts by artist Garry Fabian Miller, art historian Paul Hills, and artist Edmund de Waal.
She has held residencies at institutions including the Towner Art Gallery in Eastbourne and the Garden Museum in London.
Her work is held in public collections including the Arts Council Collection (UK), Deutsche Bank, the Garden Museum (London), the Museum of Contemporary Art (San Diego), Sir John Soane’s Museum (London), Tate Education, and University College London.
Verity is married to artist Sir Christopher Le Brun, and they have three children.


== Public collections ==
Arthur Anderson & Co
Arts Council England
Derby Museum and Art Gallery
Deutsche Bank
Eastern Arts Association
Electra Investment Trust
Garden Museum, London
Museum of Contemporary Art San Diego
Paintings in Hospitals, UK
St George's Hospital, London
Sir John Soane's Museum
Stanhope Properties
Tate Education
Unilever
University College London
Westminster School


== References ==


== External links ==
3 artworks by or after Charlotte Verity at the Art UK site
Biography. Accessed 16 January 2023.

Fabiano Bolla Lora (born 19 September 1977 in São Paulo), known as Fabiano Paredão or just Fabiano, is a Brazilian former footballer who played as a goalkeeper.
Fabiano Paredão, considered an idol by América Futebol Clube (RN) supporters, finished his career playing in the Rio Grande do Norte state championship with Alecrim Futebol Clube at age 37.


== Honours ==
Torneio Rio – São Paulo in 1997 with Santos.
Copa CONMEBOL in 1998 with Santos.
Campeonato Paulista Série A2 in 2004 with Inter de Limeira.
Copa RN in 2006 and 2012 with América-RN.
Campeonato Cearense in 2010 with Fortaleza.
Campeonato Potiguar in 2012 with América-RN.
Campeonato Paraense in 2014 and 2015 with Remo.


== References ==


== External links ==
Sambafoot.com Profile

Director (occupation) refers to several human occupations or positions.
Director may also refer to:


== Arts and media ==


=== Fictional entities ===
The Director, an artificial intelligence system in the video game Left 4 Dead


=== Literature ===
Director (magazine), a British business and lifestyle magazine
The Director (Denker novel), a 1971 novel by Henry Denker
The Director (Kehlmann novel), a 2023 novel by Daniel Kehlmann
The Director (play), a 2000 play by Nancy Hasty


=== Movies ===
Director (1969 film), a Soviet film directed by Alexey Saltykov
Director (2009 film), an American film directed by Aleks Rosenberg


=== Music ===
Director (band), an Irish rock band
Director (Avant album) (2006)
Director (Yonatan Gat album)


== People ==

Aaron Director (1901–2004), professor at the University of Chicago Law School
Kim Director (born 1974), American actress


== Science, technology, and transportation ==
Director, the spatial and temporal average of the orientation of the long molecular axis within a small volume element of liquid crystal
Director (military), a device that continuously calculates firing data
Adobe Director (formerly MacroMind VideoWorks), a multimedia application authoring platform
Fibre Channel director, a large switch for computer storage networks
Director telephone system, used by exchanges in some British cities in the 1920s–1980s
GCR Class 11E (nicknamed "Directors"), a class of locomotives named after directors of the Great Central Railway
HMS Director (1784), a ship of the British Royal Navy


== Other uses ==
Directors beer, by Courage Brewery


== See also ==
Director (occupation)
Deputy Director (disambiguation)
Directeur sportif, a person directing a cycling team during a road bicycle racing event
Director-general
Director string, a way of tracking free variables in computation
Board of directors
Directorial system
Directorate (disambiguation)
Directory (disambiguation)
Direct (disambiguation)

The Christmas Price Index is a tongue-in-cheek economic indicator, maintained by the U.S. bank PNC Wealth Management, which tracks the cost in USD of the items in the carol "The Twelve Days of Christmas". The woman responsible for maintaining the list since 1986 is Rebekah M. McCahan. 


== Origins ==
The Christmas Price Index was conceived by the Chief Economist of Provident National Bank as a humorous commodity price index to measure the changing cost of goods over time. Commodity price indices, as compiled by economics, use a "market basket" of certain goods and then measure the cost of the goods from year to year to gauge inflation in different sectors of the economy.
The Christmas Price Index chose the items in the popular Christmas carol "The Twelve Days of Christmas" as its market basket: a partridge in a pear tree, two turtle doves, three French hens, four calling birds, five golden rings, six geese, seven swans, eight maids, nine dancing ladies, ten leaping lords, eleven pipers, and twelve drummers. According to tradition, the purchasing of the items begins on December 25 and ends on January 5.


== Methodology ==

PNC compiles both a "Christmas Price Index" and "The True Cost of Christmas". The "Christmas Price Index" is calculated by adding the cost of the items in the song. The "True Cost of Christmas", however, is calculated by buying a partridge in a pear tree on each of the twelve days, buying two turtle doves from the second day onward, for a total of 22 turtle doves, etc., for the complete set of 364 items.
The price of each item is set as follows:

The pear tree comes from a local Philadelphia nursery.
The partridge, turtle dove, and French hen prices are determined by the Cincinnati Zoo and Botanical Garden.
The price of a canary at Petco is used for the calling bird, though the price of a blackbird (colly bird) may reflect the original version of the song.
Gordon Jewelers sets the cost of the gold rings, though the gold rings of the song may actually refer to ring-necked pheasants.
The maids are assumed to be unskilled laborers earning the US federal minimum wage.
The Philadelphia Dance Company provides estimates for the salary of "ladies dancing".
The Philadelphia Ballet estimates the salary for the "leaping lords".
The going rate for drummers and pipers is that of a Pennsylvania musicians' union.


== Results ==

Like other lighthearted economic indicators, such as The Economist's Big Mac Index which tracks the price of the Big Mac hamburger in different countries, the Christmas Price Index nevertheless produces results which have meaningful interpretations.
In general, the prices in the index have reflected the growing service economy in the United States—prices for goods have mostly fallen, but prices for labor have risen greatly. The cost of hiring ladies and lords, for example, has risen over 300 percent. After the high cost of the dancers, the seven swans are the most expensive item on the index; the unpredictable breeding cycle of swans makes their supply uncertain, and in 1995 a US Trumpeter swan breeding program led to their price halving. Much as the United States Consumer Price Index excludes volatile energy and food prices from its "core" index, the core Christmas Price Index excludes the swans; for 2008, the total price index rose 8.1% from 2007, while the core index rose only 1.1%. The cheapest item in the index is the partridge, which, in 2008, could be purchased for $20. Costs have generally risen and fallen along with the standard Consumer Price Index.
The survey also tracks the cost of ordering the items online; doing so is significantly more expensive, in part due to shipping costs. In 2008, PNC estimated the total cost at $31,956.62, up 2.3% from 2007, while purchasing all 364 items online would cost $131,150.76, an increase of 1.8%. However, if the buyer were to purchase each item from the least expensive vendor, the total index would be $19,844.95, a discount of 5.86%.
The 2020 index did not include nine Ladies Dancing, ten Lords-A-Leaping, eleven Pipers Piping, or twelve Drummers Drumming due to COVID-19 restrictions on live performances.
In 2019, an attempt was made to calculate a redneck version of the index for Jeff Foxworthy's "Redneck 12 Days of Christmas." The calculation was hampered by the overwhelming cost of one of the twelve items on Foxworthy's list, "nine years' probation," which was calculated from the salary of a probation officer over nine years and subtracting the cost to the state to incarcerate someone over that same length of time; this entry accounted for 98% of the over $275,000 index, which itself was seven times higher than the corresponding standard Christmas Price Index. Discounting the probation, the 11 remaining items cost $6,019.36.


== Criticisms ==
The Christmas Price Index has been criticized for a number of reasons. First, the index does not clearly define the products that comprise each of the twelve gifts. For example, the price for the eight "maids a-milking" only includes the cost of eight laborers at federal minimum wage, while milking also requires at least a milk cow, goat, or other such animals, which is an additional cost.
Second, the index also relies on only one data source per gift when a more reliable approach might use several retailers.
Third, the index prices products that do not actually correspond with the actual gift described. The ten "lords a-leaping" are valued by using the cost of hiring male ballet dancers instead of real lords, as lordships are a title of nobility not recognized in the United States.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Knattspyrnufélag Austfjarða (Icelandic pronunciation: [ˈkʰnahtˌspɪ(r)tnʏˌfjɛːˌlaːɣ ˈœystˌfjarða], lit. 'Eastfjords Football Club'), commonly known as just KFA, is an Icelandic football club from the municipality of Fjarðabyggð located on the east coast of Iceland.
The club was founded in 2022 with a merger of two clubs, Leiknir Fáskrúðsfjörður and Fjarðabyggð and was named Eastfjords (Austfjarða) Football Club.


== History ==
KFA is composed of the following clubs in Fjarðabyggð:

Íþróttafélagið Þróttur (Neskaupsstaður)
Ungmennafélagið Austri (Eskifjörður)
Ungmennafélagið Valur (Reyðarfjörður)
Ungmennafélagið Leiknir (Fáskrúðsfjörður)
Ungmennafélagið Súlan (Stöðvarfjörður) and
Ungmennafélagið Hrafnkell Freysgoði (Breiðdalsvík).
With the establishment of KFA all the main sports clubs in the municipality have banded together in fielding a football team.


== Current squad ==
As of 25 July 2025

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


== References ==

Kosmos 1001 (Russian: Космос 1001 meaning Cosmos 1001) was a redesigned Soviet Soyuz T spacecraft that was flown on an unmanned test in 1978.  The spacecraft was the upgraded Soyuz for Salyut 6 and Salyut 7. This Kosmos flight, launched from Baikonur, was the first orbital flight of the Soyuz T design. Several maneuvers were tested, however it failed to achieve all of its objectives and resulted in an early deorbit and landing


== Mission parameters ==
Spacecraft: Soyuz 7K-ST
Mass: 6680 kg.
Crew: None.
Launched: April 4, 1978.
Landed: April 15, 1978.


== References ==

Hugh Vernon Stiff (1916–1995) was a Canadian Anglican bishop in the 20th century.


== Life and career ==
Stiff was born on 15 September 1916 and educated at the University of Toronto. He was a parishioner of the Church of St. Mary Magdalene in Toronto. He was ordained in 1953 and began his ordained ministry as missioner at Lintlaw, Saskatchewan. After this, he was Rector of All Saints' Saskatchewan, then Dean of Calgary.
In 1969, he became Bishop of Keewatin. In 1974, he became Dean of Toronto and Rector of St. James Cathedral, until his retirement in 1986. Stiff died on 24 September 1995.


== References ==

Carlos Humberto Caszely Garrido (born 5 July 1950) is a Chilean former professional footballer, nicknamed "Rey del metro cuadrado" (English: King of the square meter, Portuguese: O Rei do Metro Quadrado), who played as a forward.
Regarded as one of Chile's most important players, between 1969 and 1985, Caszely won 48 caps and scored 29 goals for the Chile national team, including participations in the 1974 and 1982 World Cups.


== Club career ==

Caszely was born in Santiago, Chile. He played for several football teams in his career, including Colo-Colo (1968–1973), Levante UD (1973–1975), RCD Espanyol (1975–1978), finally returning to Colo-Colo (1978–1985). He ended his career with Barcelona SC in 1986.


== International career ==
During the opening 1974 FIFA World Cup match against West Germany, Caszely was given a red card by the match referee, Doğan Babacan, becoming the first player to be sent off in this manner (red and yellow cards wouldn’t be introduced until the 1970 tournament). In the 1982 World Cup he missed a penalty against Austria. In June 1976, Caszely played for the national team of Catalonia in a friendly against the Soviet Union, providing an assist to Johan Neeskens.
In addition to official matches with Chile, Caszely also scored 14 goals in B-class matches against opponents such as River Plate, Palmeiras, Boca Juniors, Paris Saint-Germain, among others.


== Personal life ==
His grandson, Franco Garrido Caszely, is a youth player from the Colo-Colo youth system.


== Political views ==
Caszely was revered by many Chileans as a supporter of the left under the Pinochet dictatorship and as one of the few leading Chilean footballers to declare his opposition to the regime. He and his mother appeared in advertisements supporting the "No" vote opposing an extension of Pinochet's rule in the 1988 Chilean presidential referendum. 
Caszely served as press attaché in sports in the Embassy of Chile in Spain from June 2014 to April 2015 under the Presidency of Michelle Bachelet.


== Outside football ==
In the 1970s, Caszely studied Physical Education at the University of Chile.
Caszely had worked as a host for several sport related TV shows on Canal 13, a Chilean-based TV station and plays football at amateur level for a team called "Colo-Colo 1973", composed of former Colo-Colo players.
Caszely got a degree in business administration at the University of Navarra.
In the 1990s, he finished his second Bachelor of Arts at the University of Santiago, Chile, where he studied journalism.


== Honours ==
Colo Colo

Primera División de Chile: 1970, 1972, 1979, 1981, 1983
Copa Chile: 1981, 1982, 1985
Individual

Chilean League's Top Scorer: 1979, 1980, 1981
1973 Copa Libertadores: Top Scorer
Best player in 1979 Copa América
2009 Award of CONMEBOL by exalt to South American soccer


== References ==


== External links ==
Carlos Caszely at National-Football-Teams.com
Player profile (in Spanish)
Carlos Caszely at IMDb
Carlos Caszely at PartidosdeLaRoja.com (in Spanish)

The Smith County Historical Society, housed in the Carnegie Library, is located at 125 S. College Street in the city of Tyler, Smith County, Texas, U.S. It was built in 1904 as the Carnegie Public Library, and added to the National Register of Historic Places listings in Smith County, Texas in 1979.  When Tyler built a new public library, the Carnegie building was leased to the Smith County Historical Society and continues to operate as a museum and archives.


== Carnegie library ==
In 1903, Tyler was the recipient of an $15,000 grant from the Andrew Carnegie Library Fund. The grant was part of $645,000 the Fund distributed to thirty-four areas in Texas for the establishments of individual libraries between 1898 and 1917. Philanthropist  Andrew Carnegie (1835–1919) encouraged the establishment of libraries in geographical areas by requiring annual  matching local funds equal to at least ten percent of the grant itself. Andrew Carnegie's agreement with Tyler was that it would raise $1,500 annually to maintain and operate the library.
The initial matching fund in Tyler was for essentials such as purchase of the land and interior furnishings. Tyler's populace rose to the occasion in support of its proposed library. Portraits of Robert E. Lee and Jefferson Davis were donated by the Mollie Moore Davis Chapter of the Daughters of the Confederacy. Contributions to buy a $2,000 lot from Annie Regina McMahon on which to locate the library came from 172 local citizens. Limestone and brick was used in 1904 for the construction of the library, which was topped with a red tile roof.  The area media gave due attention to the fund raising, and generosity of the citizens resulted in everything from botanical gifts for landscaping, to wall hangings, books and publications to fill its shelves, construction materials and services, and a piano for its auditorium. The building was doubled in size in 1936 by a $25,000 expansion project that upgraded the interior lighting. In 1965, a children's literature department was sectioned off from the upstairs auditorium. The building was added to the National Register of Historic Places listings in Smith County, Texas, in 1979.


== Carnegie History Center ==
Upon the 1980 construction of the new Tyler Public Library across the street at 201 S. College, the city of Tyler leased the Carnegie Library to the Smith County Historical Society, at which time the structure was renovated. In 1984, the Carnegie History Center opened in the building, operated by the historical society. In 1959, the historical society was incorporated as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. The history center houses all manner of historical artifacts, archives and resource materials. Donations supplement financial support from the society. Research assistance is provided at a fee. The Carnegie History Center dissolved into the Smith County Historical Society in the 1990s, and the Society maintains all museum exhibits and artifacts.


=== Hours, admission, parking ===
The museum is open to the public five days a week, closed on Sunday and Monday. Admission is free, and the west side of the building has a free parking lot.


== See also ==

Carnegie Public Library, located in Huntington, West Virginia
List of museums in East Texas
National Register of Historic Places listings in Smith County, Texas
Recorded Texas Historic Landmarks in Smith County


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Carnegie Public Library (Tyler, Texas) at Wikimedia Commons

Seagoville ( SEE-goh-vil) is a city in Dallas County, Texas, United States, and a suburb of Dallas. A small portion of Seagoville extends into Kaufman County. Its population was 18,446 at the 2020 census. The city is located along U.S. Highway 175, 10 miles (16 km) from downtown Mesquite.


== History ==
Seagoville was originally called Seago, and under this name was laid out in 1876 by T. K. Seago (1836–1904), and named after him. The United States Post Office changed the town's name to "Seagoville" in 1910 to prevent confusion with another city in Texas called Sego.
During World War II, the Federal Reformatory for Women in Seagoville was the site of an Immigration and Naturalization Service  detention camp for Japanese, German, and Italian Americans classified as "enemy aliens" and women of Japanese and German ancestry deported from Latin America. Internees at Seagoville published a German-language newsletter called the Sägedorfer Fliegende Blätter. The camp housed up to 647 people, and was closed in June 1945, after the internees were either "repatriated" to Japan or Germany, or transferred to Crystal City, Texas.


== Geography ==
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 19.0 square miles (49.2 km2), of which 18.7 square miles (48.4 km2) are land and 0.31 sq mi (0.8 km2), or 1.58%, is covered by water.


== Demographics ==


=== 2020 census ===
As of the 2020 census, Seagoville had a population of 18,446. The median age was 34.2 years; 27.5% of residents were under 18 and 9.6% were 65 or older. For every 100 females, there were 117.3 males, and for every 100 females 18 and over, there were 123.4 males age 18 and over.
Most of the residents lived in urban areas, while 3.4% lived in rural areas.
Of the 5,136 households in Seagoville, 48.2% had children under 18 living in them, 49.6% were married-couple households, 15.9% were households with a male householder and no spouse or partner present, and 27.0% were households with a female householder and no spouse or partner present. About 18.0% of all households were made up of individuals, and 7.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.
The city had 5,353 housing units, of which 4.1% were vacant. The homeowner vacancy rate was 1.1% and the rental vacancy rate was 6.3%.


== Government and infrastructure ==

Federal Correctional Institution, Seagoville is located in Seagoville.
The United States Postal Service operates the Seagoville Post Office on Seagoville Road in Kleberg, Dallas. It was previously located at 314 Glendale Avenue, in a rented facility in Seagoville. Since around 1882  a post office had been located in the Seagoville city limits. In 2011, the USPS announced that it was closing the existing Seagoville post office and consolidating it into the Kleberg Post Office, a USPS-owned facility since renamed to the Seagoville Post Office, citing cost-cutting reasons in response to a budget shortfall. Though individuals had offered to pay for the rental costs at Seagoville, the USPS insisted on closing the city post office. As of 2011, the Seagoville city post office was busier than the Kleberg one.


== Education ==


=== Primary and secondary schools ===


==== Public schools ====
Portions of Seagoville are within three separate independent school districts.


===== Dallas Independent School District =====
Almost all of the Dallas County portion of Seagoville is served by the Dallas Independent School District. The area is within the Board of Trustees District 4. Portions of Seagoville are zoned to Central Elementary School, Seagoville North Elementary School, and Seagoville Elementary School. All of the city is zoned to Seagoville Middle School (grades 6–8), and Seagoville High School (grades 9–12).
Seagoville North Elementary School was scheduled to open in 2012. Prior to 2012, the students in the Dallas County portion were zoned to Seagoville Elementary School (at the time, prekindergarten–grade 2) and Central Elementary School (at the time, grades 3–5).
Seagoville Elementary, Seagoville North, and Central Elementary are within the Seagoville city limits, while Seagoville Middle and Seagoville High are in Dallas, near the city of Seagoville. Seagoville Alternative Center, an alternative school, is within the city limits.
DISD maintains the Seagoville Stadium.
Seagoville Independent School District was previously the town's school district. In 1965, the district was absorbed into the DISD.


===== Crandall Independent School District =====
The minuscule Kaufman County portion is served by Crandall Independent School District. The students in the Crandall portion are zoned to Wilson Elementary School, Crandall Middle School, and Crandall High School. Wilson Elementary and Crandall Middle are within the city of Crandall. Crandall High is partially in Crandall and partially in unincorporated Kaufman County.


===== Mesquite Independent School District =====
A very small portion of northeast Seagoville is within the boundaries of Mesquite Independent School District. That portion is served by Achziger Elementary School, Terry Middle School, and John Horn High School (all three schools are in Mesquite). The area was formerly zoned to Thompson Elementary School.


===== History of schools =====
The first school established in Seagoville was the Brinegar School. The one-room log schoolhouse, which featured split-log seating, was constructed around 1867 in the area of the modern-day Heard Park. Professor J.T. Doss built a new school building in 1880; it was called Woodside. Another school opened in a four-frame building. A cyclone destroyed one of its rooms in 1903, and in 1909, that school was destroyed in a fire. In 1910, a new brick high-school building opened on the site of what is now Seagoville Elementary School. The building, a two-story facility with four rooms for upper grades upstairs and four rooms for lower grades downstairs, on land on North Kaufman Street, was donated by Ben H. Fly. It was built for about $10,000 ($283,000 adjusted for inflation to 2022), and was known as "The High School" and "the Old Red Schoolhouse".
Seagoville High School first opened in 1928 on land purchased in 1927. This building later burned down, and Central Elementary School opened on the former high-school site. The current high-school facility and Seagoville Middle School opened on a 22-acre (8.9 ha) plot of land donated by M.D. Reeves in 1952: one building opened in 1955 and the other opened in September 1958. Seagoville was in the Seagoville Independent School District until August 1964, when it merged into DISD. The DISD operates the Seagoville Stadium in Seagoville.


=== Public libraries ===
Seagoville has its own public library, the Seagoville Public Library, at 702 North U.S. Highway 175.


=== Community colleges ===
The Texas Legislature defines all of Dallas County (including the vast majority of Seagoville) as being in the Dallas College (formerly Dallas County Community College) district. The portion in Kaufman County is within the Trinity Valley Community College district.


== Notable people ==
LaMarcus Aldridge - NBA player, attended Seagoville High School
Chill Wills - actor, born and raised in Seagoville
Antonio Wilson - NFL player, born in Seagoville


== References ==


== External links ==

City of Seagoville official website
SeagovilleNews.com – News & Information website
Seagoville Library
Seagoville Chamber of Commerce Archived February 5, 2019, at the Wayback Machine
Seagoville Economic Development Corporation
Seagoville, Texas from the Handbook of Texas Online
Schools:

Seagoville Middle School Archived March 1, 2019, at the Wayback Machine – Located in Kleberg, Dallas
Central Elementary School Archived December 15, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Seagoville Elementary School Archived March 1, 2019, at the Wayback Machine
Seagoville North Elementary School

John de Cogan was an Anglo-Irish knight who lived in the period between 1220 and 1278.
De Cogan was a grandson of Milo de Cogan (died 1182) and Christina Pagnel; his parents were Richard de Cogan (died after 1238) and Basile de Riddlesford. 
He is first mentioned sub anno 1233 with the justiciar, Maurice FitzGerald, on an expedition to Connacht, with Richard Mor de Burgh, Hugh de Lacy and Walter de Ridelsford. 
In the 1230s he led a contingent from Munster which participated in the conquest of Connacht under Richard Mor de Burgh. His chief followers appear to have been the Barrett family. 
His lands were located in County Galway and County Mayo. He founded the abbey of Kinalehin in east Galway, for the Carthusian Order. He was also the founder of Claregalway friary. On the death of his father-in-law, Gerald Prendergast, in 1261, he inherited some of his estates in right of his wife. 
In 1263 he was involved in a land dispute between Walter, Earl of Ulster, and Maurice FitzGerald. 
His wife was Marie de Prendergast, older half-sister of Maud de Prendergast, Lady of Offaly. Their children included Basillia, Juliane, John (1243-c.1275). By Julian Fitzmaurice, John the younger had sons John and Thomas. 
According to Knox (1908, p. 295):
In 1306, John son of William de Rathcogan, Walter de usser and Walter de Cogan were indicted for robbing the abbot of the monastery of Crossmolina. Rathcogan is a name of Charleville, which was in the Cogan estate in the county of Cork. We may suspect that an estate hereabouts {in the barony of Tirawley} passed like Castlebar from a de Barry to a Cogan.
Miles Cogan was one of the many Anglo-Irish killed by the King of Connacht in 1315. 
The surname is now rendered as Goggin or Goggins in Connacht.


== References ==
History of Mayo, Hubert T. Knox.
Lickmolassy by the Shannon:A History of Gortanumera & Surrounding Parishes, John Joe Conwell, 1998. ISBN 0-9534776-0-6.

Ca n’Amat is a museum facility owned by the municipality of Viladecans (Baix Llobregat), which is part of the Barcelona Provincial Council Local Museum Network. The building is an example of the typical country home a well-to-do family would have in the 19th century, with elements connected to agricultural life, the basic activity in Viladecans in the 19th and part of the 20th centuries. Therefore, in the rooms and bedrooms of the owners, Isabelline Gothic and Art Nouveau furniture coexists with the kitchen and the storage silos inside the house and the wine presses on the patio. Periodically, the town council organises a series of leisure and cultural activities to get to know the history and heritage of the city, such as guided visits of the building, temporary exhibits and talks.


== References ==


== External links ==
Ca n'Amat page at town council site
Local Museum Network site
Viladecans Heritage information

Thysanodonta chauvereauensis is an extinct species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk, in the family Calliostomatidae within the superfamily Trochoidea, the top snails, turban snails and their allies.


== Distribution ==
This species occurs in France.


== References ==

Charles Peter Wuorinen ( , Finnish: [ˈʋuorinen]; June 9, 1938 – March 11, 2020) was an American composer of contemporary classical music based in New York City. He also performed as a pianist and conductor. Wuorinen composed more than 270 works: orchestral music, chamber music, solo instrumental and vocal works, and operas, such as Brokeback Mountain (2014). His work was termed serialist but he came to disparage that idea as meaningless. Time's Encomium, his only purely electronic piece, received the 1970 Pulitzer Prize. Wuorinen taught at several institutions, including Columbia University, Rutgers University and the Manhattan School of Music.


== Life and career ==


=== Background ===
Wuorinen was born in New York City on June 9, 1938. His father, John H. Wuorinen, the chair of the Columbia University history department, was a noted scholar of Scandinavian affairs who also worked for the Office of Strategic Services and wrote five books on his native Finland. His mother, Alfhild Kalijarvi, received her M.A. in biology from Smith College. Wuorinen grew up at the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He excelled academically, graduating from Trinity School (New York City) as valedictorian in 1956; he later received a B.A. (1961) and an M.A. (1963) in music from Columbia University. His early supporters included Jacques Barzun and Edgard Varèse.


=== 1940s and 1950s ===
Wuorinen began composing at age 5 and began piano lessons at 6. At 16 he was awarded the New York Philharmonic's Young Composers' Award and the John Harms Chorus premiered his choral work O Filii et Filiae at Town Hall on May 2, 1954. He was active as a singer and pianist with the choruses at the Church of the Heavenly Rest and the Church of the Transfiguration (Little Church Around the Corner), and was the rehearsal pianist for the world premiere of Carlos Chávez's opera Panfilo and Lauretta at Columbia University during the spring of 1957. From 1952 to 1956 Wuorinen was president of the Trinity School Glee Club. He was pianist, librarian, and general manager of the Columbia University Orchestra in 1956–57. During the summers of 1955 and 1956, he was the organist at Saint Paul's Church in Gardner, Massachusetts, where his parents stayed during the summer months. He was awarded the Joseph H. Bearns Prize three times, the BMI Student Composers Award four times, and the Lili Boulanger Award twice (1961 and 1962). He was a fellow at the Chamber Music Conference and Composers' Forum of the East for several years. Many early professional performances of Wuorinen's compositions took place on the Music of Our Time series at the 92nd Street Y run by violinist Max Pollikoff.


=== 1960s ===
In 1962 Wuorinen and fellow composer-performer Harvey Sollberger formed The Group for Contemporary Music. The ensemble raised the standard of new music performance in New York, championing such composers as Milton Babbitt, Elliott Carter and Stefan Wolpe, who wrote several works for the ensemble. Many of Wuorinen's works were premiered by The Group, including Chamber Concerto for Cello and the Chamber Concerto for Flute. Major Wuorinen compositions of the '60s include Orchestral and Electronic Exchanges, premiered by the New York Philharmonic conducted by Lukas Foss; the First Piano Concerto, with composer as soloist; the String Trio, written for the then newly formed new music ensemble Speculum Musicae; and Time's Encomium, Wuorinen's only purely electronic piece, composed using the RCA Synthesizer at the Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center on a commission from Nonesuch Records, for which Wuorinen was awarded the 1970 Pulitzer Prize for Music at the age of 32. Wuorinen was appointed to instructor at Columbia in 1964 and promoted to assistant professor in 1969, the year he received an Ingram Merrill Foundation grant; during this period, he was visiting lecturer at the New England Conservatory (1968–71), Princeton University (1969–71), the University of Iowa (1970), and the University of South Florida (1971).


=== 1970s ===
The 1970s were a particularly fruitful period for Wuorinen, who taught at the Manhattan School of Music from 1971 to 1979. Chamber works during this decade include his first two string quartets, the Six Pieces for Violin and Piano, Fast Fantasy for cello and piano, and two large works for the Tashi Ensemble, Tashi and Fortune. Works for orchestra include Grand Bamboula for strings, A Reliquary for Igor Stravinsky, which incorporates the elder master's last sketches, the Second Piano Concerto, and the Concerto for Amplified Violin and Orchestra, which caused a scandal at its premiere at the Tanglewood Festival with Paul Zukofsky and the BSO conducted by Michael Tilson Thomas. In 1976 Wuorinen completed his Percussion Symphony, a five-movement work for 24 players including two pianos for the New Jersey Percussion Ensemble and his longtime colleague Raymond Des Roches, as well as his opera subtitled "a baroque burlesque", The W. of Babylon with an original libretto by Renaud Charles Bruce. The New Jersey Percussion Ensemble had also performed and recorded Wuorinen's composition "Ringing Changes" in collaboration with the Group for Contemporary Music prior to the Percussion Symphony, setting the stage for this challenging larger-scale work. The ensemble, created by Raymond Des Roches, recorded the Percussion Symphony, which was released in 1978 by Nonesuch. In the late 1970s Wuorinen became interested in the work of the mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot and with a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation he conducted sonic experiments at Bell Labs in New Jersey. In an interview with Richard Burbank, Wuorinen is quoted as saying:

What I did at Bell Labs (with Mark Liberman) was to try various experiments in which strings of pseudo-random material, usually pitches but sometimes other things, were generated and then subjected to traditional types of compositional organization, including twelve-tone procedures. What I wanted to do was to see whether or not these things sounded "composed," sounded purposively chosen. They did, at least by my lights. The random sequences were not just any old random sequences but were that of a kind called 1/f randomness.


=== 1980s ===
The 1980s were framed by two large-scale works for chorus and orchestra based on Biblical texts, the 60-minute oratorio The Celestial Sphere for the 100th Anniversary of the Handel Oratorio Society in Rock Island Illinois of 1980 and Genesis (1989), jointly commissioned by the Minnesota Orchestra and San Francisco Symphony. Other major orchestral works during this period include the Rhapsody for Violin and Orchestra; the Third Piano Concerto, written for pianist Garrick Ohlsson; Movers and Shakers, the first work commissioned by the Cleveland Orchestra for music director Christoph von Dohnányi; Bamboula Squared for computer-generated sound and orchestra (inspired by Wuorinen's work at Bell Labs); and The Golden Dance. Wuorinen was composer in residence with the San Francisco Symphony from 1984 to 1989. Major chamber works of the 1980s include his Third String Quartet commissioned to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the Hopkins Center for the Arts at Dartmouth College, The Blue Bamboula for pianist Ursula Oppens, the Sonata for Violin and Piano commissioned by the Library of Congress and premiered at the Library on an all-Wuorinen concert, String Sextet, New York Notes, Third Piano Sonata for Alan Feinberg, and trios for various combinations including three works for horn trio.
In the 1980s Wuorinen began an association with the New York City Ballet which resulted in a series of works designed for dance: Five (Concerto for Amplified Cello and Orchestra) for choreographer Jean-Pierre Bonnefoux and Wuorinen's longtime colleague and champion Fred Sherry, Delight of the Muses based on works of Mozart and commissioned in honor of the Mozart's bicentennial, and three works inspired by scenes from Dante's La Divina Commedia for Peter Martins (The Mission of Virgil, The Great Procession and The River of Light). In addition to the Dante texts Wuorinen was influenced by the watercolors of William Blake. For the New York City Ballet Wuorinen also made a two-piano arrangement of Schoenberg's Variations for Orchestra (Schoenberg) choreographed by Richard Tanner, and Martins created a ballet based on Wuorinen's A Reliquary for Igor Stravinsky. In 1985 Wuorinen was awarded a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship.


=== 1990s ===
Wuorinen devoted increased attention to writing works for voice, including his setting of Dylan Thomas's A Winter's Tale for soprano Phyllis Bryn-Julson and the Fenton Songs I & II on poems by British poet James Fenton, with whom Wuorinen was collaborating on an opera. Major chamber works included the Saxophone Quartet for the Raschèr Saxophone Quartet, Percussion Quartet, Piano Quintet, and Sonata for Guitar and Piano. Orchestral works included the Concerto for Saxophone Quartet and Orchestra and Symphony Seven as well as the Dante works for the New York City Ballet.


=== 2000 onward ===
With the start of the 21st century, James Levine became a major champion of Wuorinen's music. Levine commissioned Wuorinen's Fourth Piano Concerto for his first season at the Boston Symphony Orchestra; the tone poem Theologoumenon (a 60th birthday gift for Levine from his longtime manager Ronald Wilford), premiered by the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra; and the Eighth Symphony: Theologoumena, for the BSO. In honor of Wuorinen's 70th birthday Levine conducted two performances of Wuorinen's Ashberyana at the Guggenheim Museum.
Other champions of Wuorinen's music include Peter Serkin, for whom Wuorinen composed three concertos including Time Regained (based on music of Machaut, Matteo da Perugia, Guillaume Dufay, and Orlando Gibbons) and Flying to Kahani, commissioned by Carnegie Hall; the solo Scherzo and Adagio; and the Second Piano Quintet with the Brentano Quartet, another ensemble with which Wuorinen has had a very fruitful relationship and for which he wrote his Fourth String Quartet. 
In 2004 the New York City Opera premiered his opera Haroun and the Sea of Stories based on the novel by Salman Rushdie, with a libretto by James Fenton. Two other song cycles based on Fenton's poetry were created around this time, Fenton Songs I and II. Other works from this decade include Cyclops 2000 for Oliver Knussen and the London Sinfonietta; Ashberyana, settings of poetry by John Ashbery; Spin5, a chamber concerto for violinist Jennifer Koh; the Fourth Piano Sonata, for Anne-Marie McDermott; Synaxis; Metagong; and It Happens Like This, a dramatic cantata on seven poems by James Tate premiered at Tanglewood with the composer conducting.
Between 2008 and 2012, Wuorinen composed the opera Brokeback Mountain, based on Annie Proulx's short story of the same name and with a libretto adapted by Proulx. It premiered on January 28, 2014, at the Real in Madrid to mixed reviews.


== Death ==
On September 7, 2019, Wuorinen suffered a fall that caused a subdural hematoma. Over the next several months he had three additional falls, ultimately leading to his death on March 11, 2020, at New York Columbia-Presbyterian hospital. A requiem mass was held at St. Ignatius of Antioch Episcopal Church on May 30, 2020. It was broadcast live and uploaded to YouTube.


== Music ==

Wuorinen wrote more than 270 pieces, including the operas Haroun and the Sea of Stories and Brokeback Mountain. He has been described as totally committed to twelve-tone composition, with Schoenberg, late Stravinsky, and Babbitt as primary influences. In later years, he called the term serialism "almost without meaning".
Much of Wuorinen's music is technically complex, requiring extreme virtuosity by the performer, including wide leaps, extreme dynamic contrasts, and rapid exchange of pitches. Fractals and the mathematical theories of Benoit Mandelbrot are also important aspects of his style, as can be seen in works such as Bamboula Squared and the Natural Fantasy for organ.


== Writings and lectures ==
Wuorinen wrote the book Simple Composition. He described it as

written by a composer and ... addressed to other composers — intending or actual, amateur or professional. Thus it is similar in intent to certain older books on the subject like Thomas Morley's A Plain and Easie Introduction to Practical Musicke (1597), for instance.... It outlines present practice, and while it can be used for purely didactic purposes, it can also be employed in composing "real" music.
Wuorinen lectured at universities in the United States and abroad, and served on the faculties of Columbia, Princeton, and Yale universities, the University of Iowa, the University of California-San Diego, the Manhattan School of Music, the New England Conservatory, the State University of New York at Buffalo, and Rutgers University. He wrote the introduction to Joan Peyser's To Boulez and Beyond.


== Influence and legacy ==
Wuorinen's works have influenced a number of other composers. Robert Black cited him as a particular influence on his style. Black also recorded Wuorinen's New York Notes. Jazz trumpeter Dave Douglas wrote, "Around 1992 I found Charles Wuorinen’s book Simple Composition in the Brooklyn Public Library. I thought, 'At last! My problems are over!' Little did I know, they were just beginning... The book had a profound effect on me and spurred a whole new approach to composing for improvising small groups."
In 2019, Perspectives of New Music published a Festschrift, Charles Wuorinen: A Celebration at 80, comprising analytical articles and compositions written for the occasion by Wuorinen's friends and colleagues. The issue (Volume 56, Number 2, Summer 2018) was followed by an 80th birthday celebration at the Eastman School of Music that featured a master class, a symposium, and concerts of his music as well as works dedicated to him.


== Criticism ==
Wuorinen was criticized as intolerant and hostile in his writings toward people with differing views on music. In 1963, he wrote in Perspectives on New Music, "I must unequivocally state that pitch serialization is no longer an issue", and that young composers should be "acting out the implications of the older generation's work". For Richard Taruskin, such statements imply a totalitarian view that only twelve-tone composers are to be regarded as composers. Taruskin has described similar statements as "fantasies of infantile omnipotence".
In 1971, the Columbia University music faculty denied Wuorinen tenure, which he attributed to "hostility to the present, and those who advocate it in music". Others have attributed the decision to Wuorinen's intolerant and arrogant attitude.
The opening paragraph of Simple Composition has been controversial. Taruskin describes it as another example of Wuorinen's contempt for music outside the 12-tone system.

While the tonal system, in an atrophied or vestigial form, is still used today in popular and commercial music, and even occasionally in the works of backward-looking serious composers, it is no longer employed by serious composers of the mainstream. It has been replaced or succeeded by the 12-tone system
In a 1988 interview, Wuorinen said, "I feel what I do is right [...] pluralism has gone too far", and criticized views on which "the response of the untutored becomes the sole criterion for judgment". Rather, he suggested, "I would try to change the present relationship of the composer to the public from one in which the composer says: 'please, judge me,' to one in which I say: 'I have something to show you and offer my leadership.'"
More recently, Wuorinen called the term serialism "almost without meaning", a statement that has also been criticized. In a 2005 interview, when asked if he was a serialist composer, he restated this opinion:

Question: People say that you [Wuorinen] are a serialist, you write atonal, difficult, thorny music. Are those perceptions correct or not, or is there some truth to them?
Wuorinen: An interesting question to ask someone about one or the other of us, "Oh, he's this or that way," is "Which particular piece are you referring to?" You won't get an answer, I guarantee you. These categories have very little meaning. To call me a serial composer, I think, is—first of all, the term has to be defined, and no one ever bothers to do it.
In 2018, Wuorinen denounced the Pulitzer Prize jury for awarding its music award to hiphop artist Kendrick Lamar, telling the New York Times the decision constituted "the final disappearance of any societal interest in high culture."


== Performance and conducting ==
Wuorinen was active as a performer, a pianist and a conductor of his own works as well as other 20th-century repertoire. His orchestral appearances have included the Cleveland Orchestra, Chicago Symphony, New York Philharmonic, San Francisco Symphony, Los Angeles Philharmonic, and the American Composers Orchestra. He conducted the American, and later the West Coast, premieres of Morton Feldman's monodrama Neither.
In 1962 he co-founded The Group for Contemporary Music, an ensemble dedicated to performance of new chamber music. In addition to cultivating a new generation of performers, commissioning and premiering hundreds of new works, the Group has also been a model for similar organizations that have appeared in the United States since its founding.


== Personal life ==
Wuorinen resided in New York City and the Long Valley section of Washington Township, Morris County, New Jersey. He was married to his longtime partner and manager, Howard Stokar.
Wuorinen died in New York on March 11, 2020, aged 81, as a result of injuries sustained in a fall the preceding September.


== Discography ==
This is a partial discography of Wuorinen:

It Happens Like This / Fourth Piano Sonata / Alphabetical Ashbery. Anne-Marie MacDermott, piano, loadbang, The Group for Contemporary Music, composer conducting, Bridge Records 9490
Eighth Symphony (Theologoumena) / Fourth Piano Concerto. Peter Serkin, piano, Boston Symphony Orchestra, James Levine, conducting. Bridge Records 9474
Scherzo / First String Quartet / Viola Variations / Second Piano Quintet. Peter Serkin, piano, Brentano String Quartet, Curtis Macomber, violin, Jesse Mills, violin, Lois Martin, viola, Fred Sherry, cello. Naxos Records 8.559694.
Ashberyana / Fenton Songs / Fenton Songs II / Praegustatum / Ave Christe: Josquin / Josquiniana. Leon Williams, baritone, Lucy Shelton soprano, James Pugh, trombone Brentano String Quartet, Sarah Rothenberg, piano. Naxos 8.559377
String Sextet / String Quartet No. 2 / Piano Quintet / Divertimento for string quartet. Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, Tashi, Ursula Oppens, The Group for Contemporary Music. Naxos 8.559288
Dante Trilogy: The Mission of Virgil / The Great Procession / The River of Light. (chamber version, live recording), The Group for Contemporary Music, Oliver Knussen, conductor. Naxos 8.559345
Tashi / Percussion Quartet / Fortune. Tashi, The Group for Contemporary Music, New Jersey Percussion Ensemble. Naxos 8.559321
Horn Trio / Horn Trio Continued / Trombone Trio / Trio for Bass Instruments / Double Solo for Horn Trio. The Group for Contemporary Music. Naxos 8.559264
Cyclops 2000 / A Reliquary for Igor Stravinsky. London Sinfonietta, Oliver Knussen, conductor. London Sinfonietta label 859811 (Reliquary previously issued on DGG)
On Alligators / Fourth String Quartet / Natural Fantasy / Third Piano Concerto. Kevin Bowyer, organ, Brentano String Quartet, Garrick Ohlsson, piano, San Francisco Symphony, Herbert Blomstedt, conductor. Tzadik Records 8010
Time's Encomium / Lepton / New York Notes / Epithalamium. SurPlus Ensemble, Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, Wuorinen conducting, Paul Christopher Gekker and Mark Gould, trumpets. Tzadik Records 7077 /
Duos: Sonata for Guitar and Piano / Never Again The Same / Duo Sonata for Flute and Piano / Divertimento for Alto Saxophone and Piano / Eleven Short Pieces / Psalm 39 / Percussion Duo. William Anderson (guitarist), Joan Forsyth, piano, Wilbur Pauley, bass, Christopher Hall, tuba, Thomas Meglioranza, baritone, Robert Aitken (composer), flute, James Avery (musician), piano, John Ferrari, percussion, Margaret Kampmeier, piano, Erik Carlson, violin, Michael Caterisano, percussion, Eliot Gattego, alto saxophone, Eric Wubbels, piano. Albany Records TROY1077
Five Concerto for Amplified Cello and Orchestra / The Golden Dance / Concerto for Amplified Violin and Orchestra. Fred Sherry, cello, Orchestra of St. Luke's, Wuorinen conductor, San Francisco Symphony, Herbert Blomstedt conducting, Paul Zukofsky, violin, Radio-Sinfonie-Orchester Frankfurt, Eliahu Inbal, conductor. Albany Records TROY711
The Haroun Songbook. Elizabeth Farnum, soprano, Emily Golden, mezzo-soprano, James Schaffner, tenor, Michael Chioldi, bass-baritone, Phillip Bush, piano, Albany Records TROY664
Fast Fantasy / An Orbicle of Jasp / Andante espressivo / Cello Variations / Cello Variations II / Cello Variations III / Grand Union. Fred Sherry, cello, Charles Wuorinen, piano, Thomas Kolor, percussion. Albany Records TROY658
Hyperion / Archaeopteryx / arrangement of Schoenberg's Variations for Orchestra, Op. 31 / Webern's arrangement of Schoenberg's Five Pieces for Orchestra op. 16. St. Luke' Chamber Ensemble, Charles Wuorinen, conductor, David Taylor, bass trombone Richard Moredock, Cameron Grant, James Winn pianos. Albany Records TROY992
Vocal Works: Two Machine Portraits (Les Murray (poet)), The Long Boat (Stanley Kunitz), Twang (Wallace Stevens), Lightening viii (Seamus Heaney), September 11, 2001 (W.H. Auden), Fenton Songs, Christes Crosse, Pentecost (Derek Walcott), A Song to the Lute in Musicke, Stanzas Before Time (John Ashbery), A Winter's Tale (Dylan Thomas). Albany Records TROY968
Hyperion / Archaeopteryx / arr. of Arnold Schoenberg's Variations for Orchestra, Op. 31 / Webern's arrangement of Schoenberg's Five Pieces for Orchestra, Op. 16. Albany Records, TROY992
Genesis / A solis ortu / Mass (for the Restoration of St. Luke in the Fields) / Ave Christie: Josquin. Minnesota Orchestra & Chorale, Edo de Waart, conductor, Charles Wuorinen, piano.


== Notable students ==
Wuorinen's students include Arthur Russell, Robert Bonfiglio, Michael Daugherty, Aaron Jay Kernis, Peter Lieberson, Tobias Picker, Kenneth Lampl and James Romig.


== Footnotes ==


== References and interviews ==
Bloomberg TV segment at the Wuorinen website, 2008
Brokeback Mountain, The Opera Charles Wuorinen interviewed by Peter Dobrin, ArtsWatch: PhillyNews.com, June 9, 2008
Burbank, Richard D. Charles Wuorinen: A Bio-Bibliography. Greenwood Press, 1994. ISBN 0-313-25399-4
Duffie, Bruce. "Interview with Charles Wuorinen", February 26, 1987
Karchin, Louis. "Wuorinen, Charles". The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, second edition, edited by Stanley Sadie and John Tyrrell. London: Macmillan Publishers, 2001.
Kennedy, Michael. The Oxford Dictionary of Music. Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press, 2006. ISBN 0-19-861459-4.
Kerner, Leighton (January 2005). "In Review: New York City". Opera News. pp. 54–56.
Charles Wuorinen (June 5, 2007). "Art and Entertainment". NewMusicBox (Interview). Interviewed by Frank J. Oteri (published July 1, 2007). (includes video)
Peyser, Joan (1995). The Music of my Time, Vol.1. Pro/AM Music Resources Incorporated. pp. 199 ff. ISBN 0-912483-99-7.
Romig, James. "Charles Wuorinen: Adapting To The Times". Liner notes for Albany Records (Troy 871).
Smith, Steve. "A Serialist Island Thrives in a Sea of Minimalism". The New York Times (January 28, 2007).
Tommasini, Anthony. "Renaissance and Medieval Hues in a Modernist Work". The New York Times (January 26, 2009). (review of Wuorinen's Time Regained)
Wakin, Daniel. "Sometimes Keeping the Beat is Easy". The New York Times (April 7, 2007) (article on performance of Wuorinen's Percussion Symphony)


== Further reading ==
Wuorinen, Charles. 1979. Simple Composition, New York, NY: C.F. Peters Corporation. ISBN 0-938856-06-5
Morris, Robert, Review of Charles Wuorinen's Simple Composition. Theory & Practice 1980, 5/1:66-72.
Hibbard, William, Charles Wuorinen, The Politics of Harmony. Perspectives of New Music Vol. 7, No. 2 (Spring–Summer, 1969), pp. 155–166 (article consists of 16 pages)
Seelye, Todd, Charles Wuorinen Guitar Variations, Soundboard Magazine, the Journal of the Guitar Foundation of America, Spring 1997, Vol. 23, No. 4
Karchin, Louis, Pitch Centricity as an Organizing Principle in Speculum Speculi of Charles Wuorinen, Theory and Practice, Volume 14/15, 1989/90.
Kresky, Jeffrey, The Recent Music of Charles Wuorinen Perspectives of New Music, Vol. 25 Nos. 1&2, Winter 1987/Summer 1987
Karchin, Louis, Charles Wuorinen's Reliquary for Stravinsky Contemporary Music Review, 2001, Vol 20, Part 4, pp. 9–27
Steinberg, Michael, Choral Masterworks: A Listener's Guide Oxford University Press, February 2008, pp. 317–336


== External links ==

Official website
Charles Wuorinen at AllMusic.com
Charles Wuorinen discography at Discogs
Charles Wuorinen at C.F. Peters, publisher
Art of the States: Charles Wuorinen three works by the composer
Charles Wuorinen at IMDb
Requiem service for Charles Wuorinen

St Michael and All Angels Church is a Church of England parish church located within the grounds of the gardens of Howick Hall in the village of Howick, Northumberland, England. The church is recorded in the National Heritage List for England as a designated Grade II listed building, receiving around twenty thousand visitors annually.


== History and features ==

The parish of Howick dates back to 1158 when a priest named Asket is recorded, but there was a church here long before his time. The original temple was built in Norman style, it was destroyed by a fire in 1746 and was replaced by what the church guide calls 'a curious Ionic temple'. That 'Ionic' building burnt down in turn and was replaced by the present church in 1848, which was designed by the architect FJ Francis. This neo-Norman style temple is a typically Victorian building, with round-arched Romanesque windows and doors. Francis extended the church eastward by the addition of a chancel and vestry, and westward by the bell-cote.
The church is closely related to the Greys of Howick Hall, and many of the members of the Grey family are buried in the churchyard. The most famous and important of them was Charles Grey, 2nd Earl Grey, who served as Prime Minister between 1830 and 1834. It was during his tenure that the Reform Act 1832 was passed, paving the way for representative democracy. But today he is best remembered not for his political achievements, but for the tea that bears his name.
The Greys did more than just go to church. Maria Copley, 3rd Countess Grey (1803–1879), was a sculptor. She carved the gargoyles that decorate the exterior north wall. Mabel Palmer, 5th Countess (1884–1958), commissioned the paintings behind the altar and the baptismal font, and are regarded with mixed feelings.
Michael Fisher, the second Anglican Bishop of St Germans, recounts the experience with the family of Charles Grey, 5th Earl Grey in his memoir For the Time Being: A Memoir, he mentions that they were devout High Church Anglicans, but the churchmanship of St Michael's is unclear.


== References ==


== External links ==
A Church Near You entry
 Media related to St Michael's and All Angels church, Howick at Wikimedia Commons

Nuno Álvares Pereira de Melo, 1st Duke of Cadaval, 4th Marquis of Ferreira, 5th Count of Tentúgal (4 November 1638 – 29 January 1725), was a Portuguese nobleman and statesman.


== Biography ==
Nuno was a general in the Portuguese Restoration War, which earned him prestige and achieved himself the title of Duke of Cadaval. Following the end of the war, he was made Constable of Portugal in the Portuguese Cortes of 1668.
In June 1670, Nuno became a member of the Ultramarine Council, an administrative organ of the Portuguese Empire.
In 1707, the Duke was made chief of the Portuguese army.


== Personal life ==
He first married Maria de Faro, daughter of Francisco de Faro, 7th Count of Odemira. His second wife was Princess Marie Angélique of Lorraine-Harcourt, daughter of François Louis, Count of Harcourt. His third marriage was to Princess Marguerite of Lorraine-Armagnac (17 November 1662 – 16 December 1730), daughter of Louis, Count of Armagnac. He was grandfather to Leonor Tomásia de Távora, 3rd Marquise of Távora.


== Ancestry ==


== References ==

Frank Wallace Notestein (August 16, 1902 - February 19, 1983) was an American demographer who contributed significantly to the development of the science. He was the founding director of the Office of Population Research at Princeton University, and later president of the Population Council. He was the first director-consultant of the Population Division of the United Nations from 1947–1948.


== Education and career ==
Notestein attended three different colleges. Notestein spent his first year of college as a freshman at Alma College but later transferred to College of Wooster in 1923 and received a Bachelor of Science in economics. He then attended graduate school at Cornell University and later received a PhD in social statistics in 1927. Notestein completed his graduation thesis and set off to Europe where he studied occupational mortality for a year. Notestein was immediately offered a research associate position at Milbank Memorial Fund. He started in 1928, and while he was in the position, Notestein provided better understanding of declining fertility rate and mortality rate in the late nineteenth century and early twentieth century.


== Contributions to demography ==
Frank W. Notestein in 1945 provided labels for the types of growth patterns of the demographic transition that was found by Warren Thompson sixteen years earlier. With his modern thinking about population, Notestein introduced a program of research and graduate training at American University, as well as creating leadership in scholarship, the formation of policy, and technical assistance in matters relating to populations.
For his contributions, Notestein was elected to the American Philosophical Society in 1945 and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1963.


== Personal life ==
Frank W. Notestein was born in Alma, Michigan on August 16, 1902. In high school, Notestein played football and served as the captain of the military company. In the summer, Notestein would work at the pickle factory and at a local furniture store as an assistant.
Frank Notestein was engaged to his classmate, Daphne Limbach, in his senior year in college. Four years later, they married. The couple then spent their honeymoon in Europe, where Notestein studied occupational mortality on a Social Science Research Council fellowship.
Notestein retired in 1968 and moved to live in Newtown, Pennsylvania, with his wife. On February 19, 1983, Notestein died from emphysema at the age of 80.


== Selected works ==


=== Books ===
The Future Population of Europe and the Soviet Union: Population Projections, 1940–1970 (membership required for full access). with Irene B. Taeuber, Dudley Kirk, Ansley J. Coale, and Louise K. Kiser. Geneva: League of Nations. 1944. Retrieved 2008-06-29.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: others (link)
Journal Article "Some Demographic Aspects of Aging" Frank W. Notestein Vol. 98, No. 1 (Feb. 15, 1954), pp. 38-45
Notestein, Frank W. (1936) "Class Differences in Fertility." Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science 188: 26–36.
Notestein, Frank W. (1943) "Some Implications of Population Change for Post-War Europe." Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society 87, no. 2 (August): 165–174.
Notestein, Frank W. (1945). "Population–The Long View," In Food for the World, ed. Theodore W. Schultz. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Notestein, Frank W. (1964). "Population Growth and Economic Development." Colombo. Reprinted in Population and Development Review 9 (1983): 345–360.
Notestein, Frank W. (1967). "The Population Crisis: Reasons for Hope." Foreign Affairs 46(1): 167–180.
Notestein, Frank W. (1982). "Demography in the United States: A Partial Account of the Development of the Field." Population and Development Review 8: 651–687.
Stix, Regine K., and Frank W. Notestein (1940). Controlled Fertility: An Evaluation of Clinic Service.Baltimore: Williams and Wilkins.


=== Papers ===
Notestein, Frank W. 1953. "Economic problems of population change", in Proceedings of the Eighth International Conference of Agricultural Economists. London: Oxford University Press, pp. 13–31.


== References ==


== External links ==
Frank W. Notestein Papers at Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library, Princeton University

Teefa in Trouble (Urdu: طیفا اِن ٹرَبل) is a 2018 Pakistani romantic comedy action film. The film is the directorial debut of Ahsan Rahim, who was previously known for directing music videos and television commercials, under his Tadpole Films banner. It stars Ali Zafar, Abdullah Solangi and Maya Ali, who also made their Pakistani film debuts. It is also the debut film under Zafar's banner Lightingale Productions.
Pre-production work began in 2016 when Zafar, Rahim and Danyal Zafar wrote the story and screenplay. Principal photography took place in Lahore and Warsaw between 18 February and 26 July 2017. Ali Zafar also created the music, while Shani Arshad composed the film score. The film released on 20 July 2018. It was distributed by Mandviwalla Entertainment and Geo Films nationwide. It is the first non-Indian film which Yash Raj Films distributed internationally and the first non-Indian film whose music is owned by Junglee Music. At the time of its release, it was one of the most expensive Pakistani films ever made. It became the third Pakistani film to cross the Rs. 50 crore mark, despite facing protests and film piracy afterwards.


== Plot ==
The story revolves around Teefa, a witty middle-class Lahori boy who is raised by his mother since a young age. Teefa is introduced to the world of crime by the shady business dealer and local gangster Butt Sahab, and due to his impoverished upbringing, money and power are all that matter to him.
Anya is the bold and stubborn daughter of Bonzo, a childhood friend of Butt Sahab, who is now a successful business tycoon and multi-millionaire based in Warsaw, Poland. Butt Sahab plans to wed his goofy and spoilt son Billu Butt to the charming Anya, but Bonzo refuses and instead has plans to marry off his daughter to the son of another Pakistani tycoon, Mr. Bajwa, to build his connections. Meanwhile, Anya has a secret crush on her Polish friend Andy and tries to fend off her father and conniving stepmother Sophie's repeated marriage nagging, but to no avail. She finally gives in to her father's demands.
Butt Sahab, who is outraged at Bonzo for refusing his son's hand and is not willing to take no for an answer, enlists Teefa to take the first flight to Warsaw, kidnap Anya and bring her back to Pakistan, so he can arrange his son's wedding with her. Teefa is initially reluctant to do the job but relents when he is offered Rs. 10 lakh for his services. He lands in Poland and is helped in the mission by his comical friend Tony. Both do not have any intelligent plans for the kidnapping, having not done such a job before.
Their job is made easy when they sneak into Anya's family mansion on the day of her wedding and learn that she plans to run away, and in an absurd and unexpected twist of events, she acquiesces to them to stage her kidnapping. The story takes several comical turns once the trio is on the run, from one place to the next, escaping Bonzo's army of guards. Teefa gets into "trouble" when he begins to realize he is falling in love with Anya, while she too starts to slowly get attached to Teefa. She follows him to Lahore, where their journey of escape winds up when a heartbroken Anya eventually comes to realize the moment of truth. Teefa must now choose between love and money, at the cost of deceit, and decides to set things straight. The chase is far from over, as this time they must double-cross Butt and his goons, and Bonzo and his guards who are close behind their heels.
Teefa, torn between love and the promise of money, decides to set things right. The trio faces challenges from both sides – evading Butt Sahab and Bonzo, who are determined to bring Anya back.


== Cast ==

Ali Zafar as Lateef "Teefa", called as "Teefay"
Maya Ali as Anya
Faisal Qureshi as Tony (Dot) Shah; Teefa's friend
Mahenur Haider as Sara; Anya's friend
Jawed Sheikh as Bashira "Bonzo"; Anya's father
Sofia Khan as Sophie; Bonzo's wife and Anya's step-mother
Mehmood Aslam as Butt Sahab
Asma Abbas as Khalida Butt; Butt Sahab's wife
Marhoom Ahmad Bilal as Billu Butt; Butt Sahab's son
Nayyar Ejaz as Sheikh Sahab
Simi Raheal as Teefa's widowed mother called as "Baybae" by him
Tom Coulston as Andy
Additionally, stuntman Mehboob Shah plays the role of Bonzo's bodyguard Lee, and Salman Bokhari plays Sheikh's goon Shikra. Further, Jawad Bashir appears as Muhammad Asif and Kashmala Nauman as Billu Butt's wife. Also, Ranveer Singh makes a special appearance as an endorser for "Teefay De Tikkay".


== Production ==


=== Development ===
In 2014, Ali Zafar revealed to Dawn that his first Pakistani film production would "be directed by Ahsan Rahim". In September 2015, Zafar established a studio in his new house and named it Lightingale Studios. The film was announced on 18 October 2016 by Zafar and Rahim, reported The Express Tribune. It is Zafar's first Pakistani film as a lead after working in several Indian films and a small role in Lahore Se Aagey. Rahim also had directed some music videos for Zafar previously.
Zafar revealed the film title on 20 January, with the name of lead actress Maya Ali on 27 January 2017. She is known for many Pakistani dramas and has gained popularity on Indian television when her starring drama Aunn Zara aired there. On finalizing her debut film, she told The News that "it took me a while" because "I don't want people to relate it to any of my previous work(s)". Zafar commented that this film will show "what all she is capable of."


=== Casting and filming ===
Filming began on 18 February. The first spell took place in Lahore, Pakistan, and completed on 10 May after about 42 days. In April, Asma Abbas revealed her role in an interview with The Nation. Nayyar Ejaz, Simi Raheal, Mehmood Aslam and British actor Tom Coulston were also cast, along with Marhoom Ahmad Bilal in his film debut. The second spell then continued from 20 June in Warsaw, Poland. Jawed Sheikh, Mahenur Haider and Faisal Qureshi were cast, along with Fia Khan in her film debut. Filming wrapped up on 26 July, after about 30 days in Warsaw. Zain Haleem has served as the cinematographer. The song "Item Number" was shot in Bangkok, which took five days.
Sheikh revealed his role to The News; he further said, "I absolutely love traveling", as he had to work in many films that required traveling including this. The film marked the return of Aslam to the industry after 28 years; he said, "I finally got the role which I always wanted to play." Maya Ali commented to Pakistan Today, "I couldn't have found a better film than Teefa to make my cinematic debut." Zafar told Khaleej Times that he was interested in witnessing the characters he had developed come to life, with each actor who brought their concepts to their characters.


=== Promotion ===
Zafar said in an interview with Newsline, "I wrote the story along with the director." "We started off with an idea to make an action comedy, then romance came into play and then the songs…", he said to Dawn. He further told The News that he had "studied books on screenplays to learn how it's done." He further said that the architectural shots and the action sequences would be something like never been seen before, for which he prepared himself physically and disallowed his stunt double. He told The Express Tribune that it has been designed to "provide a cinematic experience that hasn't been done here yet", and added to Dawn that this may be "the most expensive Pakistani production", further said to The News, "We need to think out of the box and see how international cinema works". He told IANS that the film has a message "about the journey more than the destination".
He revealed the film logo at the opening ceremony of the 2017 Pakistan Super League on 9 February, followed by his "Ab Khel Jamay Ga" performance. On 20 April, he performed his original song "Ishq" with Maya Ali at the 16th Lux Style Awards. The film teaser was released during the opening ceremony of the 2018 Pakistan Super League on 22 February, where Zafar flew around the stadium on a hoverboard while performing his rendition of "Teefa", followed by his "Dil Se Jaan Laga De" performance.
Rahim told The News that they started shooting "on the 10th or 12th draft" after more than six months in pre-production. He said that a film should not look like "a TV serial, it should be larger than life and the story should be engaging". He said to Pakistan Today, "If a director cannot tell a story effectively, he cannot make a good film." He commented that it is "difficult to be fully satisfied with one's own work", but he gave his best to the film, so it "belongs to the public" after him. Zafar's wife, Ayesha Fazli, has served as the co-producer.
Zafar is the first Pakistani to be invited to the 5th Silk Road International Film Festival (SRIFF), held in China in October 2018. He proposed the collaboration between Pakistani and Chinese artists and to release at least three Pakistani films in China to extend the business. Teefa in Trouble was also screened to over 30 Chinese mainstream distributors at the festival in Fuzhou.


== Soundtrack ==

Mid-Day reported in January 2017 that Zafar said, "I am also working on the music of the movie". He told The Express Tribune that the playback voice for Maya Ali would "be Aima Baig, not five different voices", adding that "I wanted every song to be a movie-hit song." Like Zafar's previous albums, this time too his brother, Danyal Zafar, helped him with the music. Lightingale Productions collaborated with Junglee Music for the international distribution of the soundtrack, which was released on 6 July 2018.


=== Track listing ===


=== Personnel ===
Adapted from YouTube:

Danyal Zafar – guitars (track 5)
Hassan Badshah – programmer (tracks: 4, 5)
Donal Whenal, Levi Oven (MasteringWorld – UK) – stereo mastering (all tracks)
Akash Pervaiz – stereo mix (tracks: 4, 5)
Asad Ahmed – guitars (track 2)
Amir Azhar – bass (track 2)


=== Score ===
In September 2018, Shani Arshad shared 4 tracks from the score listed below:


== Release ==
The film trailer was released on 14 June 2018 across 1200 screens worldwide. The film released across 24 countries on 20 July, including some countries where this is the first Pakistani film, while in UAE on 19 July.


=== Home media ===
On 1 December 2018, the film was released in India and worldwide on Netflix, except in Pakistan and China. It was released on Iflix in Pakistan on 4 January 2019. It premiered on television by Geo Entertainment on 19 January. It was made available on Netflix Pakistan on 30 January 2020. To mark its third anniversary, ARY Digital aired the film on 21 July 2021, Eid al-Adha day 1.


== Reception ==


=== Box office ===
Teefa in Trouble became the biggest opener for any Pakistani film, collecting Rs. 2.31 crore, breaking the previous record of Rs. 2.07 crore by Jawani Phir Nahi Ani. At the local box office, it became the fifth biggest non-holiday opener. This record was broken by Jawani Phir Nahi Ani 2 soon, collecting Rs. 2.99 crore. It collected under Rs. 2.5 crore on its second day from Pakistan. It became the second Pakistani film to collect above Rs. 7 crore by its first weekend in Pakistan, surpassing the challenge of releasing during a non-holiday and non-peak season. The worldwide collections for the first weekend were approximately Rs. 10.15 crore. It also became the first Pakistani film to collect a high of Rs. 9.86 crore within five days from the local box office and made its worldwide gross of about Rs. 14.26 crore.
On 27 July, it became the highest-grossing Pakistani film of 2018. The nationwide collections till the second week were Rs. 18.79 crore. At the local box office, the film also registered the biggest third weekend and week with Rs. 5.77 crore, the biggest fourth weekend and week with Rs. 4.17 crore, and the biggest fifth weekend and week with Rs. 1.5 crore. It became the 3rd highest grossing Pakistani film behind Punjab Nahi Jaungi and Jawani Phir Nahi Ani, and the first non-holiday film to cross the Rs. 30 crore mark, that too only locally. After collecting Rs. 9.4 crore from the overseas market in 38 days, and Rs. 32.04 crore from the local box office till the eighth weekend, the film made Rs. 41.44 crore. It collected Rs. 33 crore locally after its four-month run. On 20 February 2019, EPK's report stated that it has made Rs. 34.5 crore locally, and Rs. 14 crore from overseas.
It was back to the screens on 22 February in the aftermath of the 2019 Pulwama attack and the tensions among India and Pakistan. On 31 March, it was announced that the film has crossed the Rs. 50 crore mark.


=== Critical response ===
The film premiered on 19 July at Nueplex Cinemas, in DHA, Karachi, and on 20 July at CineStar IMAX Lahore. It opened to positive reviews.
Writing for The Express Tribune, Rahul Aijaz praised the acting, score, and the direction, and said that it "sets new standards for film-making in Pakistan" due to its visuals and action sequences, adding that "a few inadequacies hinder" it "from reaching its full potential". Sahir Palijo called it "quite entertaining" while rating 3 out of 5 stars, and commented that "The first half is very enjoyable and leaves you excited", but "the second half is a drag and doesn't have much to offer." Omair Alavi rated the film 4 out of 5 stars and said that the "magical background score" and "amazing cinematography keeps the audience engaged in the film, making it one of those films that will not bore", however, he too noted that the film duration could have been lowered. For Dawn, Bilal Agha described the film as "splendidly directed" and one that "set the bar high" for Pakistani films. Mohammad Kamran Jawaid wrote in a moderate review, "At times, a movie that doesn't aim that high yet scores on all levels is good enough." Khurram Suhail of Dawn News said that the film has everything except the story, which is a plus as well as the negative for the film; only box office gross can not grow the industry. Sulman Ali of Pakistan Today praised the film and said that it is "simply a fun ride with its quirky and witty dialogues, with the perfect humour showcased by all the actors".
For Geo News, Aizaz Imtiaz commented that it may be an "ordinary story" but "the way it has been shot keeps you hooked till the last scene". Rehan Ahmed reviewed it positively and called it the biggest and most smart film in the revival of Pakistani cinema. Sadiq Saleem of Masala! rated 3 out of 5 stars, and praised the film's production value, stunts and dialogues, but noted the weak plot and drags. Shahjehan Saleem of Something Haute rated it 4 out of 5 stars while calling it "a strong competitor" due to its "stellar cinematography, beautiful music, strong acting skills, and an overall comic persona" while noting that "it lacks from a meatier story". Nayab Fatima of Aaj TV rated 3 out of 5 stars and praised Maya Ali and the film's "quality" for "action scenes", "beautiful locations" and "funny dialogues", while she also noted the weak storyline. Asjad Khan of HIP said that despite "there are some issues with the film", it is "the mass entertainer audiences have been crying out for." UrduMom praised the film, she commented that she was entertained "by the witty lines, music, acting and the beautiful shots."
Farheen Abdullah of Youlin Magazine too praised the film, saying that it "proved to be a great mix of action, comedy, romance, and drama", but she also criticized its length. A critic from Oye Yeah! noted the trouble in the script, but praised the film and commented, "A strong hero, a free-spirited heroine, sharp dialogues, fun and light-hearted comedy, the picture perfect look, song and dance, and powerful fight sequences". BBC Urdu's Hassan Zaidi gave positive reviews to the film and termed it as the most commercial Pakistani film which will help open a new chapter in Pakistan's commercial cinema.


=== Accolades ===


== Controversies ==


=== Protests ===

Protests marked the premieres of Teefa in Trouble in Karachi and Lahore by activists who boycotted the film over the sexual harassment allegations against Ali Zafar by Meesha Shafi, which Zafar denied. On 31 March 2026, a sessions court in Lahore ruled in favour of Ali Zafar in his defamation case and ordered Meesha Shafi to pay Rs. 50 lakh in damages.


=== Piracy ===
Teefa in Trouble was largely unauthorized and was available on multiple streaming websites after its release, including YouTube and Facebook. The production team also posted a warning notice and initiated the step against piracy of all Pakistani films.


=== Awards show ===
The nominations for the 2019 Lux Style Awards sparked social media due to Zafar's name in it. Many celebrities called out for either boycotting the awards or rejecting their nominations. Director Ahsan Rahim shared that widely acclaimed film music not being nominated is a disappointment, and asked for the deserving ones. The award show commented to respect the decisions of the jury as well as wait for the legal decision of the harassment case.


== See also ==
List of Pakistani films of 2018
Aima Baig discography


== References ==


== External links ==
Teefa in Trouble at IMDb
Tadpole Films
Teefa in Trouble on Facebook
Teefa in Trouble (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) – EP on iTunes

The tenth-generation Honda Civic (FC/FK) is a compact car (C-segment) manufactured by Honda from 2015 until 2022, replacing the ninth-generation Civic. It was first released in November 2015 in the North American market, followed by its introduction in Europe and Asia-Pacific in 2016, and in Japan in 2017. This generation marked the unification of the Civic range, as Honda ceased making a dedicated version for the European market—a strategy employed since the sixth-generation—in favour of a globally marketed model. As the result, three body styles were introduced with a near-identical design which are sedan, hatchback, and coupe.
A Type R version based on the hatchback model was released as a prototype model in September 2016, and has been sold from 2017 in several markets, including North America which received the Civic Type R model for the first time.


== Overview ==
The tenth-generation Civic was designated as a global model, which improved development efficiency and gained cost savings. In turn, Honda allocated the cost savings to improve the performance and quality of the vehicle. During development, Honda targeted the model at the key U.S. market, resurrecting its once-discarded "lead-country" system, which calls for developing a model specifically for its main targeted market but selling it in other regions as well.
Honda's resultant compact global platform for the tenth-generation Civic adopts a sleeker, more sporty fastback design.
The tenth-generation Civic utilizes higher grade steel than the previous model, the unit body is 68 lb (31 kg) lighter, while new body sealing techniques resulted in a 58 percent reduction in cabin air leaks. Rear disc brakes are also made standard. To minimize NVH, the Civic adds fluid-filled suspension bushings. A dual pinion steering system is introduced along with a thicker and more rigid 1.2 in (30 mm) diameter steering column for improved steering feel; additionally, the steering gear ratio is variable, with 2.2 turns lock-to-lock compared to 3.1 turns lock-to-lock from the previous model and a quicker 10.93:1 steering ratio.
The suspension is also completely redesigned, with a revamped MacPherson struts for the front suspension and a new multi-link rear setup mounted to an ultra-rigid rear subframe. The suspension is also lower, which combined with a lower floor and engine, allows the centre of gravity to be reduced by 0.6 in (15 mm). Other features aimed at improving the ride and handling include hydraulic compliance bushings, variable gear ratio steering, larger front and rear stabilizer bars, and brake-based torque vectoring. A single-tier instrument cluster also returns in this generation, replacing the previous “two-tier” design used in the last two generations.


== Body styles ==


=== Hatchback ===
The Civic Hatchback prototype model was unveiled at the 2016 Geneva Motor Show, while production version was unveiled at the 2016 Paris Motor Show. It was developed jointly by Honda R&D teams in Europe and Japan, and manufactured in its Swindon plant in the UK, Prachinburi plant in Thailand, and in China by Dongfeng Honda. Canadian and USA models went on sale in September 2016 for the 2017 model year, sourcing the vehicles from the UK, the first time that hatchback was available in North America since the seventh generation Civic.


=== Sedan ===
The production sedan model debuted for North American market on September 16, 2015. Compared to the previous generation, the tenth-generation Civic sedan is 74 mm (2.9 in) longer, 46 mm (1.8 in) wider, and 20 mm (0.8 in) lower with a 30 mm (1.2 in) longer wheelbase. It also introduces an additional 3.7 cu ft (105 L) of interior space with 2 in (51 mm) of added second row legroom compared to the outgoing model, and the trunk space has been increased by 2.6 cu ft (74 L) with a lower liftover height.


=== Coupe ===
The Civic Concept was unveiled in April 2015 at the New York International Auto Show. The production coupe was unveiled at the 2015 Los Angeles Auto Show in November, sales began during March 2016. Offered only in North America, the coupe version offered two engine options, including a 1.5-litre turbo. The coupe version offered a stylistic difference compared to its sedan counterpart.
According to Honda, the tenth-generation Civic coupe made up around 16 percent of sales when it debuted in 2016, before dropping to 6 percent during 2020. The coupe was discontinued in July 2020 making 2020 the final model year available due to low sales, and no coupe was made available for the eleventh-generation Civic.


== Performance models ==


=== Si ===

The Civic Si was unveiled in November 2016 as a prototype model at the Los Angeles International Auto Show. It is powered by a turbocharged 1.5-litre engine available exclusively with a 6-speed manual. Performance features include active shock absorbers, active steering and a limited-slip differential. Honda claims the tenth-generation Civic Si trim (which is the eighth-generation of Civic to offer an Si trim level) reaches 60 mph (97 km/h) in 7.0 seconds, though Car and Driver was able to bring a 2017 Civic Si Coupe to 60 mph (97 km/h) in 6.3 seconds.


=== Type R ===

The Type R was unveiled as a prototype model the 2016 Paris Motor Show, with the production model unveiled the following year. The Type R shared the same overall body as the hatchback but with a more performance-focused appearance, with an added body kits, red 'H' badge, air intake on the hood, an air scoop, 20-inch piano black alloy wheels with red accents, enlarged wheel arches, and three tailpipes. It has a 2.0-litre turbocharged i-VTEC inline-four engine which produces 306 hp (310 PS; 228 kW) and 295 lb⋅ft (400 N⋅m; 40.8 kg⋅m) of torque. Fuel efficiency is rated at a combined consumption of 25 mpg‑US (9.4 L/100 km; 10.6 km/L).


== Facelift ==
The revised model of the Civic sedan and coupe was revealed in August 2018 for the 2019 model year in North America, and available in the US market since October 10, 2018.
In North America, it features Honda Sensing as standard and Sport Trim on Sedan and Coupe variants in the US market. The Sport Trim is equipped with the touchscreen display for the sedan and coupe variants, unlike the Hatchback variant which is equipped with the more basic non-touchscreen infotainment display. The US market Sport trim for the sedan and coupe variants was offered with the 6-speed manual and CVT. Changes at the front features a black housing around the projector headlamps for the non turbo variant, restyled lower air splitter, piano black front grille, chrome/piano black accented fog lamp trim and lower chrome trim/black diffuser trim at the rear bumper. The interior is mostly unchanged except for the inclusion of volume knobs for the 7-inch touchscreen display, with additional physical buttons to adjust the fan speed for the air conditioner next to the climate button.
A new Sport trim was added above the LX trim, adding rectangular centre exhaust, rear decklid spoiler and 18-inch alloy wheels.


== Powertrain ==


== Markets ==
Production of the sedan began at Honda of Canada Manufacturing on 20 October 2015 and shortly later at Honda Manufacturing of Indiana began on October 27. Civic Hatchbacks were produced at Honda of the UK Manufacturing (HUM) until 28 July 2021 when the last car built at the plant, a Civic sedan for the US market, rolled off the production line. The plant closed on the 30th July 2021.
The 2.0-litre and 1.5-litre turbocharged engines used in North American Civic are manufactured in Anna, Ohio and Alliston, Ontario. The vehicles' automatic transmissions (CVTs) are sourced from Honda plants in Russells Point, Ohio and Celaya, Mexico.


=== North America ===
The tenth-generation sedan was released in November 2015, the coupe in early 2016, and hatchback in 2017. All models have a 2.0-litre naturally-aspirated petrol engine or 1.5-litre turbo petrol engines, except for the hatchback, which only comes with the 1.5-litre direct injected turbo engine. The 2.0-litre engine sedan model paired with the CVT has an EPA-estimated fuel economy of 31/40/34 mpg (city/highway/combined). A 6-speed manual transmission or CVT is offered on all models, except for the Type R and Si models, which only come with the 6-speed manual transmission, and the Touring models, which only come with a CVT.
Higher-end trim levels of the 1.5-litre turbocharged and 2.0-litre naturally-aspirated engines only come with a CVT. The Sport Hatchback is a performance trim level that is available with either a CVT or 6-speed manual transmission. Si is a performance trim level that also only comes with the 6-speed manual, but it has a 1.5-litre turbocharged engine instead of the 2.0-litre turbocharged engine of the Type R, and is only offered as a sedan or coupe, not a hatchback. In 2019, an additional Sport trim for coupe and sedan was introduced between the LX and EX model featuring a gloss black grille and 18-inch wheels but uses the 2.0-litre engine, giving buyers an option on top of the standard EX model. In 2019, for the 2020 model year, Honda expanded the availability of Civic's optional 6-speed manual transmission to include the hatchback's top Sport Touring trim.
The Type R model was also released in 2017 with a hatchback body style, featuring an exclusive 2.0-litre turbocharged i-VTEC 4-cylinder petrol engine.


=== Japan ===
The Civic was revived for the Japanese domestic market in 2017, after a seven-year hiatus that skipped the ninth-generation except for 750 units of the UK-built Type R. The tenth-generation Civic line was revealed in Japan on 27 July 2017 and went on sale on 29 September 2017. It is available in both sedan and hatchback forms, with the former was manufactured locally in Yorii, Saitama, while the latter was imported from the UK. The facelifted version of both sedan and hatchback versions were revealed on 15 November 2019, unveiled on 10 January 2020 at the Tokyo Auto Salon and released on January 23, 2020. The sedan model was discontinued in August 2020 with local production ending due to lower than expected sales, while the hatchback continued to be available up to the introduction of the eleventh-generation Civic.


=== Europe ===
European models went on sale in spring 2017. Early models included a choice of 3 engines (1.0-litre and 1.5-litre turbo, 1.6-litre diesel all with either a 6-speed manual or a CVT on gasoline models, and ZF 9-speed automatic on the diesel engine). It was introduced to the UK market in 2017. It first arrived with the hatchback model, with the saloon model joining the lineup in 2018.


=== Australia ===
After the launch of the current generation Civic sedan in Australia in June 2019, sales of the Honda model shot up almost 50 percent. It has about 23 percent of private market share, matching performance of the best sellers in the segment. Honda does not compete in fleet or rental market. The biggest seller is the RS contributing to over 25 percent of sales, while 60 percent of sales is made up of the turbocharged models in the lineup. The hatchback was launched in May 2017.


=== China ===
The tenth-generation Civic sedan was launched in China on 14 April 2016. The only engines available are the 1.0-litre turbocharged P10A1 and the 1.5-litre turbocharged L15B8 engine paired with 6-speed manual and CVT gearboxes. Trim levels for the Chinese market are known as the 180TURBO CVT, 180TURBO manual, 220TURBO CVT and 220TURBO manual. The hatchback model was introduced in China in 2020 and positioned above the sedan.


=== Egypt ===
The tenth generation Honda Civic was unveiled in Egypt in 2017, and was imported from Turkey. It featured two trims: the Lxi, and the VTi. Both trims had the 1.6L R16B engine. The VTi featured a sunroof, and a fully digital cockpit, while the Lxi had analog dials with an LCD screen in the centre. None of the trims featured Honda Sensing. As of 2023, the Honda Civic is no longer available at any Honda dealership in Egypt.


=== South America ===
Honda manufactured the tenth-generation Civic in Sumaré (Brazil) from 2016 to November 2021. It is the last generation of Civic to be built in Brazil. The Civic was manufactured in Brazil since 1997.


=== Southeast Asia ===


==== Indonesia ====
The tenth-generation Civic sedan was launched on April 7, 2016, at the 24th Indonesia International Motor Show in Jakarta by Honda Prospect Motor. It uses the newer 1.5 L L15B7 I4 i-VTEC engine with a turbocharger. The hatchback was also launched on June 9, 2017, and uses the same engine as the sedan, and is available in S and E trim levels paired with CVT. The sedan received its facelift on February 21, 2019, while the hatchback received its facelift on February 6, 2020. For the facelifted hatchback model, the S and E trims were replaced with the RS trim.


==== Malaysia ====
On June 9, 2016, the Civic was launched in Malaysia with only the sedan body style which was offered with three variants: 1.8 S, 1.5 Turbo and 1.5 Turbo Premium.
The facelifted version of the Civic for the Malaysian market was launched on February 26, 2020. Three same variants retained for the Civic facelift, a base 1.8 S, a mid-spec 1.5 TC and range-topping 1.5 TC-P. Honda Sensing is available on the top spec 1.5 TC-P.

The Honda Civic 1.8 S also has been chosen as the new mobile patrol vehicles (MPV) of the Royal Malaysian Police.


==== Philippines ====
The tenth-generation Civic was launched in the Philippines on April 26, 2016. It is offered in two trim levels, 1.8 E and 1.5 RS Turbo. Two engine choices are offered, the 1.8-litre naturally aspirated with i-VTEC technology carried over from the previous generation model produces 141 hp (105 kW) and 174 N⋅m (128 lb⋅ft) of torque (E trim) and the new 1.5-litre VTEC Turbo produces 173 hp (129 kW) and 220 N⋅m (160 lb⋅ft) of torque, equipped with turbocharger (RS trim). Both engines are mated to Earth Dreams continuously variable transmission (CVT). All Philippine-market Civics are imported from Thailand.
The facelifted version of the Civic was launched in April 2019, and is offered in three trim levels; 1.8 S, 1.8 E and 1.5 RS Turbo. The base 1.8 S features projector halogen headlamps, rearview camera, electronic parking brake and a 7-inch touchscreen audio system. The 1.8 S has the same wheel design as the pre-facelift 1.8 E trim. The 1.8 E adds push button start/stop, power folding side mirrors, full LED headlamps and a new 16-inch alloy wheel design, while the 1.5 RS Turbo received new 18-inch alloy wheels, aluminum sport pedals and a volume knob for the infotainment system.


==== Singapore ====
The Civic sedan was launched by the local dealership with a choice of a 1.6L or 1.5L Turbo in July 2016, and facelifted in January 2019. For a limited period of time, the hatchback form was offered as well; however in limited units from 2017 till mid-2018. In January 2019, the facelift for the Civic was released along with new wheel design and LED foglamps for the 1.6L model, inclusion of additional AC buttons next to the climate buttons and added volume knob for the touchscreen headunit and variants received shark-fin antennas. For a limited time, a sports edition package is available as an upgrade with gloss black grille, added skirting, rear spoiler and 17” aftermarket OZ rims. In April 2020, a new colour Coffee Cherry Red Metallic was available and it replaced Rallye Red colour.


==== Thailand ====
Honda Automobile Thailand debuted the Civic on March 12, 2016. Choices include E, EL, Turbo and Turbo RS, a 1.8-litre naturally aspirated with i-VTEC technology that produces 141 hp (105 kW) and 174 N⋅m (128 lb⋅ft) of torque (E, EL) and the new 1.5-litre VTEC TURBO produces 173 hp (129 kW) and 220 N⋅m (160 lb⋅ft) of torque, achieved with the employment of turbocharger (Turbo, Turbo RS, Hatchback). Both engines are mated to Earth Dreams continuously variable transmission (CVT).
Locally assembled hatchback with 1.5 litre turbo engine and CVT arrives in March 2017.
The facelifted Civic debuted at the Thailand International Motor Expo on November 28, 2018, with Turbo RS variant equipped with Honda Sensing, sporting a piano black front grill and matching piano black fog lamp trim on the exterior and additional buttons to adjust the fan speed for the air conditioner next to the climate button in the interior. The other variants included the shifting of the rear windshield antenna to the car roof with the addition of a shark fin antenna and inclusion of volume knobs for the 7-inch touchscreen display as standard along with the facelifted bumpers and new rim spoke design for the 1.8EL model.


=== India ===
The tenth-generation Civic was launched in the Indian market in March 2019 after facelift. It was locally assembled at Honda India's plant in Greater Noida. It is available with the 1.8-litre i-VTEC petrol paired to the CVT and the 1.6L i-DTEC turbo-diesel paired to the 6-speed manual gearbox. It was discontinued in December 2020 following the company's decision to cease manufacturing operations at its Greater Noida plant.


=== Pakistan ===
Honda Atlas launched the tenth generation Civic sedan in Pakistan on July 22, 2016, as a locally assembled model. At the time of launch, three variants were offered: i-VTEC (Standard), i-VTEC Oriel and VTEC Turbo. i-VTEC and i-VTEC Oriel trims came with the 1.8-litre R18Z1 I4 petrol engine producing a total output of 140 hp (104 kW) and 174 N⋅m (128 lb⋅ft) of torque, while the VTEC Turbo trim came with the 1.5-litre L15B7 I4 turbo petrol engine producing a total output of 174 hp (130 kW) and 220 N⋅m (162 lb⋅ft) of torque. All three trim levels came with 7-speed sequential CVT. Because of engine knocking issues due to poor quality fuel in Pakistan, the 1.5-litre turbocharged variant was discontinued for an unknown period of time in March 2017.
Later, when good quality fuel started being imported in Pakistan, Honda Atlas launched the locally assembled facelifted sedan on April 9, 2019. Three trim levels were offered at the time of launch: i-VTEC, i-VTEC Oriel and RS VTEC Turbo. It was the first time that the RS trim was introduced in Pakistan. All three trim levels came with the same engines as those present in their respective pre-facelift models and also the same CVT. Later, Honda Atlas launched another trim (VTEC Turbo Oriel) which used the same 1.5-litre turbocharged engine as the RS trim. It came with a few downgrades in features and cosmetics and a lower price to match.


== Safety ==


== Awards ==
Car and Driver's 10Best list in 2019.


== References ==

Churchill Peninsula (66°30′S 62°45′W) is an ice-covered peninsula between Cabinet Inlet and Adie Inlet, extending some 30 miles (50 km) in a southeasterly direction from the east coast of Graham Land.  The peninsula ends in Cape Alexander separating Oscar II Coast to the northeast from Foyn Coast to the southwest, and has its east coast indented by Zimen Inlet and Brentopara Inlet.
The feature was photographed from the air by the Ronne Antarctic Research Expedition and charted from the ground by the Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey (FIDS) during 1947. It was named by FIDS for Rt. Hon. (later Sir) Winston Churchill, M.P., Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and leader of the War Cabinet which authorized FIDS in 1943.


== Maps ==
British Antarctic Territory: Graham Land.  Scale 1:250000 topographic map.  BAS 250 Series, Sheet SQ 19–20.  London, 1974.
Antarctic Digital Database (ADD). Scale 1:250000 topographic map of Antarctica. Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research (SCAR), 1993–2016.


== Further reading ==
Beau Riffenburgh, Encyclopedia of the Antarctic, Volume 1, P 585
Jane G. Ferrigno, Alison J. Cook, Amy M. Mathie, Richard S. Williams, Jr., Charles Swithinbank, Kevin M. Foley, Adrian J. Fox, Janet W. Thomson, and Jörn Sievers, Coastal-Change and Glaciological Map of the Larsen Ice Shelf Area, Antarctica: 1940–2005, USGS


== References ==
 This article incorporates public domain material from "Churchill Peninsula". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey.

Konrad Ernst Ackermann (1 February 1710 – 13 November 1771) was a German actor.
Ackermann first accompanied field marshal Burkhard Christoph von Münnich on his travels and in battles. Born in Schwerin, he first entered the stage under a certain Stolle. In 1740, he entered the troupe of Johann Friedrich Schönemann in Lüneburg, where he first met his future wife Sophie Charlotte Bierreichel, who took the lead of the troupe in 1741 in Hamburg. The troupe dissolved in 1744 and they lived with relatives of Konrad in Mecklenburg. In 1747, he was hired in Danzig, later in St. Petersburg. In 1749, he and Sophie visited Moscow, where they married; they left Russia in 1751 and founded the Ackermann troupe (Ackermann'sche Gesellschaft).
The troupe visited Danzig, Königsberg, Breslau, Warsaw, Leipzig, Halle, then Frankfurt and with the beginning of the Seven Years' War via Strasbourg, France, to Switzerland. After the peace treaty, they returned via Strasbourg, Frankfurt, Mainz, Braunschweig, and Hanover to Hamburg, which became the domicile of the troupe. In 1762, Johann Michael Böck joined the troupe. Friederike Sophie Seyler also joined around this time, and both remained members until the troupe was sold in 1767.
In 1767, the troupe was sold to a consortium of private owners, called the Hamburg National Theatre or the Hamburgische Entreprise, also known as Lessing's Dramaturgie, with Abel Seyler as its main backer. The dramaturgie was home to famous founders of German histrionics such as Friedrich Ludwig Schröder and Konrad Ekhof. In 1769 many of Ackermann's actors joined the Seyler theatrical company.
His children with Sophie Charlotte were Dorothea and Marie Ackermann.


== Sources ==
Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie – online version at Wikisource
Born-on-this-Day.com Archived 8 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine

KDOC-FM (103.9 MHz; "Fun 104") is a radio station broadcasting a classic hits format, simulcasting KFNL-FM in Spring Valley, Minnesota. KDOC-FM is licensed to Eyota, Minnesota, and serves the Rochester metropolitan area. The station is owned by Townsquare Media.
The station is not related to KDOC-TV, based in Los Angeles, California.


== History ==
The station signed on April 1, 2008, as KLCX, with a classic hits format; the format and call sign were moved from 107.7 FM, which was converted to active rock station KDZZ, "Z-Rock 107.7". On March 23, 2010, the station changed its call letters to KDCZ and began simulcasting KDZZ.
On August 30, 2013, a deal was announced in which Townsquare Media would acquire 53 Cumulus Media stations, including KDZZ/KDCZ, for $238 million. The deal was part of Cumulus' acquisition of Dial Global; Townsquare and Dial Global were both controlled by Oaktree Capital Management. The transaction was consummated effective November 14, 2013.
On April 13, 2017, at 7:30 a.m., KDCZ split from its simulcast with KDZZ and changed its format to adult hits, branded as "103.9 The Doc". On May 16, 2017, KDCZ changed its call letters to KDOC-FM; the KDCZ call letters moved to KDZZ on June 2, 2017.
On September 10, 2021, KDOC-FM flipped to a simulcast of classic hits-formatted sister station KFNL-FM, branded as "Fun 104".


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Facility details for Facility ID 162261 (KDOC)   in the FCC Licensing and Management System
KDOC in Nielsen Audio's FM station database

Grigoris Papazacharias (Greek: Γρηγόρης Παπαζαχαρίας; born 20 March 1985) is a Greek former footballer. He has represented Greece at all youth levels.


== Career ==
Papazacharias began his career in Anagennisi Epanomi. He joined Iraklis in 1999. He stayed in Iraklis for 11 years, until 2010. He has over 118 performances with blue-white jersey and scored 6 league goals. In 2003-2004-2005 years, Iraklis was in very good form, finishing 4th behind Olympiacos, Panathinaikos and AEK Athens, with Papazaharias being in first eleven in center-back duo, with Tasos Katsabis. He was appointed as the captain for Iraklis in 2007. In 2010 Papazacharias transferred to local rivals Aris, but an injury left him out for about 4 months. During his first season at Aris, he played in only 3 matches.
On 30 June 2019, Thyella Kamari F.C. announced that they had signed Papazaharias.


== References ==


== External links ==
Grigoris Papazacharias at Soccerway

Pedro Moya de Contreras (sometimes Pedro de Moya y Contreras) (c. 1528, Pedroche, Córdoba Province, Spain – December 21, 1591, Madrid) was a prelate and colonial administrator who held the three highest offices in the Spanish colony of New Spain, namely inquisitor general, Archbishop of Mexico, and Viceroy of Mexico, September 25, 1584 – October 17, 1585. He was the 6th Viceroy, governing from September 25, 1584, to October 16, 1585. During this interval he held all three positions.


== Ecclesiastical career ==
Moya de Contreras received the degree of doctor of canon law from the University of Salamanca. Later he became head of the cathedral school in the Canary Islands, and then inquisitor of Murcia.
In 1571 he became the first inquisitor general of New Spain (and thus the first inquisitor general in the New World). He established the Tribunal del Santo Oficio in Mexico City in 1571. As inquisitor general he required people of New Spain, from the oidores (members of the Audiencia), nobles and religious to the most humble members of society, to solemnly swear to defend the Catholic faith and persecute heretics "as rabid dogs and wolves, infectors of spirits and destroyers of the vineyard of Our Lord." He celebrated the first auto-da-fé in New Spain in 1571.
Two years later, on June 15, 1573, Moya de Contreras was chosen Archbishop of Mexico and consecrated bishop on November 21, 1573, by Antonio Ruíz de Morales y Molina, Bishop of Tlaxcala (Puebla de los Angeles). He served until 1591, the year of his death. In 1585 he convoked and presided at the Third Provincial Council of the Church in Mexico, which established standards for the Church that endured to the end of the colonial era. This council banned the enslavement of the Indians. As both archbishop and viceroy, one of his major concerns was education of the Indians. He founded the Seminary of the Indies, to teach them Christian doctrine, reading, writing, singing and trades.
While bishop, he was the principal consecrator of Juan de Medina Rincón y de la Vega, Bishop of Michoacán (1574); Francisco Gómez de Mendiola y Solórzano, Bishop of Guadalajara (1574); and Alfonso Graniero Avalos, Bishop of La Plata o Charcas (1579).


== Political career ==

In 1583 Moya de Contreras's predecessor as viceroy, Lorenzo Suárez de Mendoza, 4th conde de la Coruña, asked King Philip II to name a special visitador (royal inspector) to help resolve a conflict between the viceroy and the Audiencia. Philip named Moya, then the sitting Archbishop of Mexico. As visitador, he took up the accusations against the corrupt oidores and other officials of the viceroyalty. He dismissed the former and punished the latter, some by hanging. In a letter reporting to the king, he praised those officials who had honestly met their obligations, and castigated others.
Suárez de Mendoza died in June, 1583. The Audiencia was formally in charge of the colony for 16 months, until the installation of the new viceroy. However, Moya de Contreras continued in the position of visitador during the interregnum, with much influence. In 1584, he was named viceroy to succeed Suárez.
He took up the new position on September 25, 1584. He now held the three most important positions in the colony. With this concentration of power, he was able to remedy many of the prevalent abuses, with immediate punishment for those found to be transgressors of the law or of decency. This resulted in much enmity among the governing class, but the lower classes proclaimed him as their defender. He was able to increase rents and payments to Spain considerably.
In 1585 he resigned as viceroy, but retained his other positions (including visitador) for a little longer while he wound up his affairs before returning to Spain. Upon his return, he became president of the Council of the Indies, a position he held until his death.
Moya de Contreras died in Spain in December, 1591, so poor that the Crown paid for his funeral. His body was interred in the parish church of Santiago, in Madrid. He left various writings which were collected in the book Cartas de Indias, published in Madrid in 1877.


== See also ==
Luis de Villanueva y Zapata, interim viceroy who preceded Moya de Contreras


== References ==


== Further reading ==
(in Spanish) "Moya de Contreras, Pedro," Enciclopedia de México, v. 10. Mexico City, 1988.
(in Spanish) García Puron, Manuel, México y sus gobernantes. Mexico City: Joaquín Porrua, 1984.
(in Spanish) Orozco Linares, Fernando, Gobernantes de México. Mexico City: Panorama Editorial, 1985, ISBN 968-38-0260-5.
Stafford Poole, C.M.  Pedro Moya de Contreras: Catholic Reform and Royal Power in New Spain, 1571-1591.  Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1987, ISBN 0-520-05551-9.


== External links ==
Catholic Hierarchy
(in Spanish) List of Archbishops of Mexico

This is a list of notable New York hardcore bands.


== Early bands (early to mid-1980s) ==
Agnostic Front
Adrenalin O.D. (this band is from New Jersey)
Antidote
Beastie Boys
Carnivore
Cro-Mags
Crumbsuckers
Damage
Even Worse
Heart Attack
The Icemen
Kraut
Leeway
Ludichrist
The Mad
Misfits (this band is from New Jersey)
Murphy's Law
Nausea
Reagan Youth
Sheer Terror
Sick of It All
Six and Violence
The Stimulators (not hc, but important transitional band from the old scene.)
Stormtroopers of Death (S.O.D.)
Straight Ahead
The Undead
Urban Waste
Vatican Commandos (This band is from Connecticut)
Warzone
The Young and the Useless


== Late-1980s to early-1990s bands ==
Biohazard
Bold (aka Crippled Youth)
Born Against
Breakdown
Burn
Candiria
The Casualties
Choking Victim
Earth Crisis
Gorilla Biscuits
Helmet
Into Another
Judge
Killing Time
Life of Agony
Life's Blood
Madball
Merauder
Method of Destruction (M.O.D.)
Orange 9mm
Pro-Pain
Project X
Quicksand
Shelter
Subzero
Unsane


== Mid-1990s to 2000s bands ==
25 ta Life
108
All Out War
The Austerity Program
Awkward Thought
Battle of Mice
Bulldoze
Castevet
Cerebral Ballzy
CIV
Crown of Thornz
Full Blown Chaos
Gay for Johnny Depp
H2O
Indecision
Jets to Brazil
Leftöver Crack
Morning Glory
Most Precious Blood
No Redeeming Social Value
On The Rise
Off Minor
Rival Schools
Saetia
Skarhead
Star Fucking Hipsters
Sworn Enemy
Tragic Figure
Tripface
District 9
Sons of Abraham
United Nations


== Long Island bands ==
Backtrack
Crime in Stereo
Glassjaw
Half-Man
Incendiary
Invade
Kill Your Idols
Neglect
On The Rise
1.6 Band
Putdown
Scapegrace
Skycamefalling
Stray from the Path
This Is Hell
Tripface
Vision of Disorder


== See also ==
List of hardcore punk bands
New York Thrash Compilation documenting the earliest NYHC scene.

Cyphophthalmus duricorius is a species of harvestman in the family Sironidae. It is found in Europe.


== Distribution ==
This species is present in Europe.Subspecies, Cyphophthalmus duricorius duricorius, has been recorded in Austria, Croatia, Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Italy. While the subspecies Cyphophthalmus duricorius bolei is endemic to Montenegro.


== References ==

Ferrol en Común ('Ferrol in Common' or 'Ferrol Together', FeC) is a grassroots movement and political coalition in the city of Ferrol, Galicia whose goal is to build a left-wing and participative political electoral alliance. FeC is supported by political parties like Anova-Nationalist Brotherhood (Anova-IN), United Left (EU) and the local circle of Podemos in the city of Ferrol.


== History ==
Jorge Suárez, a member of United Left, was elected as the candidate for the 2015 local elections. FeC was the second most voted party in said elections (7,142 votes, 21.98%), winning 6 seats in the city council. Suárez was elected as mayor, with the votes of FeC, the Socialists' Party of Galicia (PSdeG-PSOE) and the Galician Nationalist Bloc (BNG).
In the 2019 local elections FeC won only 3 councillors and lost the mayorship of the city to Ángel Mato (PSdeG-PSOE).


=== Councillors (2019-2023) ===
Jorge Juan Suárez Fernández: Law graduate and civil servant. Member of United Left of Galicia and mayor of the city from 2015 to 2019.
Xiana López Penedo: Worker of the Psychiatry Service in the Public Healthcare System of Galicia. Member of both Anova-IN and the Galician People's Front (FPG). In the Galician elections of 2009 she was the top candidate of the FPG in the province of A Coruña.
Suso Basterrechea López: Graduate in Fine Arts, plastic artist and high school teacher. He was the city councillor of culture between 2015 and 2019.


== Electoral results ==


== See also ==
Compostela Aberta
Marea de Vigo
Marea Atlántica


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Official Twitter

The following is a list of astronomical observatory software.


== Commercial software ==
MaximDL


== Non-commercial software ==


== See also ==
Space flight simulation game
List of space flight simulation games
Planetarium software

Alikhani (Persian: علي خاني) may refer to:

Alikhani (surname), list of people with the surname
Alikhani, Iran, a village in Kermanshah Province, Iran
Alikhani, Hormozgan, a village in Hormozgan Province, Iran


== See also ==
Mehr Alikhani, a village in Lorestan Province, Iran
Aha Khani, a village in Hormozgan Province, Iran

Kim Sajet ( SAY-et; born September 1965) is a Dutch art historian and curator who serves as the director of the Milwaukee Art Museum.
She was the director of the Smithsonian Institution's National Portrait Gallery for twelve years. Appointed in 2013, Sajet became the first woman to hold this post. During her tenure at the museum, she worked to increase representation of women and minorities in the Portrait Gallery's collection. In May 2025, Sajet's appointment was purportedly terminated by a directive from President Donald Trump. The following month, she resigned her post.


== Biography ==
Sajet was born to Dutch parents in Nigeria and raised in Australia from the age of four; she is a citizen of the Netherlands. She has a doctorate in liberal studies from Georgetown University, a Master's degree in art history from Bryn Mawr College, a master's degree in business administration, a bachelor's degree in art history from University of Melbourne, and a graduate diploma in museum studies from Deakin University.
Sajet served as director of the Monash Gallery of Art (now the Museum of Australian Photography) from 1993 to 1995, and deputy director of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts between 2001 and 2007. She began as director of the Smithsonian's National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C., on April 1, 2013, following a stint as the president and CEO of the Historical Society of Pennsylvania.
In May 2025, President Donald Trump claimed to have fired Sajet due to her supposed support of DEI. Legal experts said such an order would have to come from Smithsonian Secretary Lonnie Bunch, as Sajet's position is appointed not by the president but by the Smithsonian Board of Regents. On June 13, Sajet resigned as director of the National Portrait Gallery.
In September 2025, she became the director of the Milwaukee Art Museum.


== See also ==
Women in the art history field


== References ==

In Shia Islam, Qāʾim Āl Muḥammad (Arabic: قائم آل محمد, lit. 'the one who shall rise of the family of Muhammad') is an epithet for the Mahdi, the eschatological figure in Islam who is widely believed to restore the religion and justice in the end of time. The term was used as early as the eighth century to refer to a future member of the family of the Islamic prophet Muḥammad who would rise against tyranny in the end of time and restore justice. This term was already common by the end of the Umayyad caliphate and largely replaced the term Mahdi in Shia literature. The term was often qualified as al-Qa'im bi 'l-sayf (lit. 'the one who shall rise with the sword') or al-Qa'im bi-amr Allah (lit. 'the one who shall rise by the order of God').


== Twelver Shia ==
Twelver eschatology is dominated by the figure of the twelfth Imam, Muhammad al-Mahdi, the son of the eleventh Imam. The twelfth Imam is also known by the titles al-Mahdi (lit. 'the rightly guided'), al-Qa'im (lit. 'he who will rise'), and Saheb al-Zaman (lit. 'lord of the age'). It is believed that he was born around 868, and has been concealed by God from the humanity after the death of his father in 874, who was possibly poisoned by the Abbasids.
During the Minor Occultation (874–941), it is held that the twelfth Imam remained in contact with his followers through Four Deputies. During the Major Occultation (941-present), his life has been prolonged by divine will until the day he manifests himself again by God's permission to fill the earth with justice. In particular, there is no direct communication during the Major Occultation, though it is popularly held that the twelfth Imam occasionally appears to the pious in person or, more commonly, in dreams and visions. He is also viewed responsible in Twelver belief for the inward spiritual guidance of humankind (whereas his outward role begins with his reappearance).


=== Identification with the Mahdi ===
As early as the Minor Occultation (874–941), or possibly much earlier, Twelver sources identify the twelfth Imam with the messianic figure of Mahdi in Islam, though he is often referred to as al-Qa'im and less frequently as al-Mahdi. Al-Nu'mani, for instance, lived during the Minor Occultation and preferred the title al-Qa'im to al-Mahdi in his writings or joined the two as "al-Qa'im al-Mahdi." There is also a tradition ascribed to Ja'far al-Sadiq (d. 765), the sixth Imam, which explicitly identifies the promised al-Mahdi with al-Qa'im, which might indicate some confusion among the Shia about this.


=== Significance ===
Qa'im is also often contrasted with qa'id (lit. 'sitting'), in reference to those Imams who remained politically quiescent, especially the sixth Imam and his successors. At the same time, some traditions emphasize that every imam is the qa'im of his own age (qa'im ahl zamanihi).
Sachedina notes that the titles al-Qa'im has more of a political emphasis than the eschatological title al-Mahdi. More specifically, the title al-Qa'im signifies the rise of the twelfth Imam against tyranny, though a wahid (lit. 'alone') hadith from Ja'far al-Sadiq connects this title to the rise of al-Qa'im after his death. As a wahid hadith, this report is not viewed as reliable by experts, writes Majlesi, especially because it contradicts the Twelver belief that the earth cannot be void of Imam at any time, as the hujjat Allah (lit. 'proof of God'). Majlesi instead suggests that death is meant figuratively in this hadith, referring to the forgotten memory of al-Qa'im after his long occultation.


=== Alternate use ===
While the title itself is for Messianic use some Shia scholars ascribed it to Imam Sadiq, according to some traditions narrated from his father in al Kafi Imam Baqir said about him : By God this is Qaim āl Muhammad. Some scholars like Ali Khamenei in his book, A 250 Years Old Person said : that this title is about his rising in his time to spread religion by peace and this was similar to the Messianic rising of Imam Mahdi to spread religion by sword for that Imam Sadiq is Qaim āl Muhammad fī zamānihi.
However In Imam Sadiq time many saw him as a Messianic figure in Rijāl al Kashi, Manaqib and al Kafi even some historical sources some of his companions wanted to rise by his name in Kufa and Khurasan even Abu Muslim and Abu Salamah wanted to plege alleigience to him instead of Abbasids however He never claimed to be a Messianic figure and refused political uprising or Caliphate or even Alleigence.


== Isma'ilism ==
One of the titles of the Ismaili Imam is qa'im, conveying that it is the Imam who ushers in the resurrection (qiyama). According to Nasir Khusraw, a senior dignitary of the Fatimid Ismaili Imams, the line of Imams from among Ali's descendants though Husayn will eventually culminate in the arrival of the Lord of the Resurrection (Qa'im al-Qiyama). This individual is believed to be the perfect being and the purpose of creation, and through him the world will come out of darkness and ignorance and "into the light of her Lord" (Quran 39:69). His era, unlike that of the enunciators of divine revelation (natiqs) who came before him, is not one where God prescribes the people to work, rather, his is an era of reward for those "who laboured in fulfilment of (the prophets') command and with knowledge." Preceding the Lord of the Resurrection is his proof (hujjat). The Quranic verse stating that "the night of power (laylat al-qadr) is better than a thousand months" (Quran 97:3) is said to refer to him, whose knowledge is superior to that of a thousand Imams, though their rank, collectively, is one. Nasir Khusraw also recognizes the successors of the Lord of the Resurrection to be his deputies (khulafa').


== People claiming to be the Qa'im ==
al-Saffah (d. 754), Abbasid Caliph who is known today as Saffah but the truth that al-Saffah title was given to his uncle but his title according to Ibn al-Kathīr and ibn al-Athīr was al-Qaim, he claimed to be al-Qaim who will avenge the death of Imam Ali, Imam Hussein, Zayd ibn Ali ibn al-Hussein and Yahiya ibn Zayd, and according to the 8th-9th century book Akhbar al-Abbas wa Wildihi by unknown author Muhammad ibn Ali ibn Abdallah the father of caliph said about him: this is the lord of Bani Hashem al-Qaim al-Mahdi not the son of Abd Allah al-Mahd ibn al-Hassan.
Alí Muḥammad (Báb) (1819-1850), claimed to be prophet, Qaim and the physical manifestation of Twelfth Imam in 1844 and went to Mecca to proclaim himself as Mahdi and Qaim and from there promised his devotees of Shia to gather them in Karbala and Najaf in 10th of Muharram, Saturday, 1845 (1261 Islamic Hijri calendar) which means 1000 years after death of Imam Hasan al-Askari and the occultation of Twelfth Imam to begin the holy war but he changed the plan (Bada'), he has fulfilled many prophecies about Qaim then he was imprisoned in Iran after return from Mecca by Qajars and executed in year 1850 but his movement the Babism is still alive today and have two sects Azali and Baháʼí Faith they believe that what happened to him was similar to what happened to Jesus in Adam's Cycle and that Muslims and Shias were similar to Jews and he is al-Qaim al-Mahdi, the true and physical Twelfth Imam.
Ahmed al-Hasan (21 March 1968), an Iraqi Shia preacher, he claimed to be al-Yamani, descendant of Twelfth Imam and Mahdi then in 2008, 10th of Muharram, Saturday, he proclaimed Zuhur and started a battle in Basara but disappeared and later, the largest sect of Ansar, the White Banners claimed that he appeared from first occultation in 2015 and he is Qa'im not Mahdi (Twelfth Imam) and that he is the savior of mankind, they claimed that he has an official page of Facebook which have 1 million Followers worldwide especially in Iraq.
Abdullah Hashem (27 July 1983), an Egyptian-American who is a disciple of Ahmed al-Hasan, announced himself as the Qa'im Al Muhammad in 2015 and founded the Ahmadi Religion of Peace and Light (AROPL).


== See also ==
Al-Yamani (Shiism)
Muhammad al-Mahdi
al-Qaim
Great Disappointment
Babism
Occultation (Islam)
Yahya ibn Umar
Qiyama (Nizari Isma'ilism)
al-Saffah
Abbasid Caliphate


== References ==


== Sources ==
Madelung, W. (2022a). "Ḳāʾim Āl Muḥammad". In Bearman, P. (ed.). Encyclopaedia of Islam (Second ed.). Brill Reference Online.
Madelung, W. (2022b). "Al-Mahdī". In Bearman, P. (ed.). Encyclopaedia of Islam (Second ed.). Brill Reference Online.
Hussain, Jassim M. (1986). Occultation of the Twelfth Imam: A Historical Background. Routledge Kegan & Paul. ISBN 9780710301581.
Modarressi, Hossein (1993). Crisis and Consolidation in the Formative Period of Shi'ite Islam: Abū Ja'far Ibn Qiba Al-Rāzī and His Contribution to Imāmite Shī'ite Thought (PDF). Darwin Press. ISBN 9780878500956. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2022-06-16. Retrieved 2022-06-21.
Amini, Ibrahim (1996). Al-Imam Al-Mahdi: The Just Leader of Humanity, translated by Abdulaziz Abdulhussein Sachedina. Islamic Education and Information Center. ISBN 0-9680717-0-8.
Sachedina, Abdulaziz Abdulhussein (1981). Islamic Messianism: The Idea of Mahdī in Twelver Shīʻism. Suny press. ISBN 978-0873954426.
Amir-Moezzi, Mohammad Ali (1998). "ESCHATOLOGY iii. Imami Shiʿism". Encyclopaedia Iranica. Vol. VIII/6. pp. 575–581.
Momen, Moojan (1985). An Introduction to Shi'i Islam. Yale University Press. ISBN 9780300034998.
Donaldson, Dwight M. (1933). The Shi'ite Religion: A History of Islam in Persia and Iraḳ. AMS Press.
Daftary, Farhad (2013). A History of Shi'i Islam. I.B. Tauris. ISBN 9780755608669.
Corbin, Henry (2014). History Of Islamic Philosophy. Translated by Sherrard, Liadain. Routledge. ISBN 9781135198893.
Amir-Moezzi, Mohammad Ali (2007). "ISLAM IN IRAN vii. THE CONCEPT OF MAHDI IN TWELVER SHIʿISM". Encyclopaedia Iranica. Vol. XIV/2. pp. 136–143.
Tabatabai, Sayyid Mohammad Hosayn (1975). Shi'ite Islam. Translated by Sayyid Hossein Nasr. State University of New York Press. ISBN 0-87395-390-8.
Virani, Shafique (2011). "Taqiyya and Identity in a South Asian Community". The Journal of Asian Studies. 70 (1): 99–139. doi:10.1017/S0021911810002974. ISSN 0021-9118. S2CID 143431047.
Virani, Shafique (2005). "The Days of Creation in the Thought of Nasir Khusraw". Nasir Khusraw: Yesterday, Today, Tomorrow.

HMS Cheshire was a passenger ship that was built in Scotland in 1927 and scrapped in Wales in 1957. She belonged to Bibby Line, which ran passenger and cargo services between Rangoon in Burma (now Yangon in Myanmar) and various ports in Great Britain, via the Suez Canal and Gibraltar. The Admiralty requisitioned her in 1939 and had her converted into an armed merchant cruiser (AMC). She was converted into a troopship in 1943, and returned to civilian service in 1948.
She was the second of five Bibby Line ships to be named after the English county of Cheshire. The first was a steamship that was built in 1891 and sold in 1911. The third was a motor ship that was built in 1959 and sold in 1968. The fourth was built in 1971 and sold in 1983. The fifth was built in 1989.
The second Cheshire was the second of five sister ships that the Fairfield Shipbuilding and Engineering Company of Govan in Glasgow built for Bibby Line. The first was Shropshire, which was built in 1926. They were followed by Staffordshire in 1929, Worcestershire in 1931, and Derbyshire in 1935.


== Building ==
Fairfield built Cheshire as yard number 620, launched her on 20 April 1927, and completed her that July. Her registered length was 483.6 ft (147.4 m), her beam was 60.3 ft (18.4 m), her depth was 31.8 ft (9.7 m) and her draught was 29 ft 1+1⁄4 in (8.87 m). Her tonnages were 10,560 GRT and 6,624 NRT. She was completed with four masts, like all Bibby ships of her era.
Cheshire had twin screws, each driven by an eight-cylinder two-stroke diesel engine. The combined power of her twin engines was rated at 2,196 NHP, and gave her a speed of 15+1⁄2 knots (28.7 km/h).
As built, her navigation equipment included submarine signalling and wireless direction finding.
Bibby Line registered Cheshire at Liverpool. Her United Kingdom official number was 149601 and her code letters were 149625. By 1930 her call sign was GLXV. In 1934 this superseded her code letters.


== Auxiliary cruiser ==
On 29 August 1939 the Admiralty requisitioned Cheshire for conversion into an AMC. Her primary armament was six 6-inch (150 mm) guns, and her secondary armament was two 3-inch (76 mm) guns. She was commissioned on 30 October, with the pennant number F18. Her first commander was Captain Montague Bernard. Her mainmast and mizzen-mast were removed, as was the top of her jigger-mast. Only her foremast survived the conversion intact.
Cheshire was assigned to the South Atlantic Station from November 1939 until April 1940, the North Atlantic Escort Force in May 1940, the Northern and Western Patrol from June 1940 until April 1941, and the Freetown Escort Force from May to November 1941. She returned to the South Atlantic Station from December 1941 to April 1943, and was assigned to the Nore Command from May to June 1943.
From January to March 1940 Cheshire took part in the escort of three SL convoys from Freetown in Sierra Leone to Britain. On 28 May 1940, she protected the French aviso Enseigne Henry, which was rescuing survivors from the torpedoed cargo liner Brazza. In June 1941, she took part in the escort of Convoy HX 131 from Halifax, Nova Scotia to Britain, and Convoy OB 335 from Liverpool out into the North Atlantic. In July 1941 she took part in the escort of Convoy BHX 137 from Bermuda to join Convoy HX 137 in mid-Atlantic to continue to Britain. In August 1942 Cheshire took part in the escort of Convoy SL 118 from Freetown to Britain.

On 8 October 1940 Cheshire and her sister ship Salopian were on patrol when enemy aircraft attacked Convoy WS 3 (Fast), which was assembling in home waters to take seven troopships from Britain to Suez. Enemy aircraft attacked the troopships Capetown Castle and Oronsay. Cheshire and Salopian came to assist. Salopian resumed her patrol, but Cheshire stayed with the destroyers HMS Active and HMCS Ottawa to assist Oronsay, which had been damaged.
At 21:28 hours 14 October 1940 U-137 attacked Cheshire northwest of Ireland at position 55°13′N 13°02′W, hitting her with one torpedo. The destroyer HMCS Skeena and corvette HMS Periwinkle took off 220 members of her crew. Cheshire was towed to Belfast Lough, where she was beached. She was later towed to Liverpool for repairs, which took six months. She returned to active service in 1941, commanded by Captain James Begg.
On 7 August 1942 Cheshire joined the escort of SL118, a convoy of 37 merchant ships that had left Freetown on 4 August and was bound for Liverpool. At 18:52 hours on 18 August U-214 attacked the convoy at position 41°30′N 19°49′W, firing four single torpedoes. Two hit and sank Netherland Line's Balingkar, one damaged the British India Steam Navigation Company's Hatarana, and one damaged Cheshire.


== Troopship ==
On 9 June 1943 the Admiralty returned Cheshire to Bibby Line, for conversion into a troopship for the Ministry of War Transport (MoWT).
In the small hours of 24 December 1944 Cheshire and the Belgian troopship Léopoldville, escorted by four destroyers, left Southampton to cross the English Channel to Cherbourg. They carried the 262nd and 264th regiments, which were part of the United States Army's 66th Infantry Division. That afternoon, just 5+1⁄2 nautical miles (10 km) off Cherbourg, U-486 sank Léopoldville with two torpedoes, killing 763 US soldiers and 56 crew.
Between 28 and 31 December 1944 Cheshire took the US Army's 289th Engineer Combat Battalion from Southampton to Le Havre. Other US Army units that Cheshire carried during the war included the 263rd Regiment, which was part of the 66th Infantry Division, and the 329th Regiment, which was part of the 83rd Infantry Division.
The MoWT later used Cheshire as a repatriation ship.


== Final years ==
On 5 October 1948 the MoWT returned Cheshire to Bibby Line, which resumed its passenger service between Britain and Rangoon.
By 1946 Cheshire's navigation equipment included radar. By 1955 it also included a gyrocompass.
Toward the end of her career she attended at least one of the UK's nuclear bomb tests on Christmas Island. On 11 July 1957 she arrived in Newport, Wales, where John Cashmore Ltd scrapped her.


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Harnack, Edwin P (1949) [1903]. All About Ships & Shipping (8th ed.). London: Faber and Faber.
Lloyd's Register of Shipping. Vol. II.–Steamers and Motorships. London: Lloyd's Register of Shipping. 1928 – via Internet Archive.
Lloyd's Register of Shipping (PDF). Vol. II.–Steamers and Motorships of 300 tons gross and over. London: Lloyd's Register of Shipping. 1934 – via Southampton City Council.
Lloyd's Register of Shipping. Vol. Steamers and Motorships of 300 tons gross and over, Steamers and motorships inder 300 tons, Trawlers, tugs, dredgers, &c., Sailing vessels, List of ship owners, &c. London: Lloyd's Register of Shipping. 1946 – via Internet Archive.
Mercantile Navy List. London. 1928 – via Crew List Index Project.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Mercantile Navy List. London. 1930 – via Crew List Index Project.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
Osborne, Richard; Spong, Harry; Grover, Tom (2007). Armed Merchant Cruisers 1878–1945. Windsor, UK: World Ship Society. ISBN 978-0-9543310-8-5.
Register Book. Vol. I Register of Ships. London: Lloyd's Register of Shipping. 1955 – via Internet Archive.
Talbot-Booth, EC (1936). Ships and the Sea (Third ed.). London: Sampson Low, Marston & Co Ltd.

The 2006 NFL Europe season was the 14th season of the league and second to last.


== World Bowl XIV ==
World Bowl XIV was held on Saturday, May 27, 2006, at LTU Arena in Düsseldorf, Germany. The Frankfurt Galaxy defeated the Amsterdam Admirals, 22–7.


== References ==


== External links ==
2006 season

Backstage is a 1988 Australian film starring American singer Laura Branigan. The film was written and directed by Academy Award nominee Jonathan Hardy, who had also written Breaker Morant.


== Plot ==
The plot centred on American pop singer Kate Lawrence (Branigan) wanting to embark on a career as an actress. The only job she can find is playing the lead role in an Australian theatre production of The Green Year Passes. The hiring of an American causes conflict with her Australian cast and crew, and the chagrin of theatre critic Robert Landau with whom she has an affair.


== Production ==
In 1981 Frank Howson set up a company, Boulevard Films, with a view to making movies. He wanted to make a film on Les Darcy, Something Great, and collaborated with Jonathan Hardy on the script. They could not secure financing but Hardy showed Howson some other scripts he had written, including Backstage. 
Backstage had was based on an idea by John Lamond and written by Jonathan Hardy and David Stevens. Lamond had meant to direct it in 1982 starring Max Phipps, Jill Perryman and Steve Tandy but the film did not eventuate.
Howson later said "There was much I liked about" the script for Backstage "and much I didn’t, and understood why Lamond hadn’t moved on it. It seemed to me to be very old fashioned. At that time the lead character was a soap star craving credibility. It was over-written, twee, and read like an Ealing Comedy without the laughs. There was no texture, no hint of darkness, no statement or meaning to it."
Howson and Hardy decided to work on Backstage together, with the story being relocated to the music world. Howson was impressed by  Laura Branigan's acting in a segment for the video clip for her song "The Lucky One". He said "I suddenly got the idea that if the lead character of “Backstage” was changed to be a pop star wanting to be taken seriously as an actress and her only offer was from a producer in Australia, we had a film that would be modern, relevant, funny and say something meaningful about how we categorise and box artists in and restrict their growth."
Howson got Branigan interested in the lead, although she was offered a $250,000 fee which was "pay or play". The Burrowes Film Group needed to make another film before the end of the financial year and offered to raise the budget. 
Frank Howson originally thought that the involvement of the Burrowes Film Group would be limited but found they wanted to have more creative control. "I knew very clearly what audience it should be made for", said Howson, "but all of a sudden I found myself dealing with production by committee. To even make the smallest decision required everyone sitting around the table."
Matters reached an impasse when Howson and Burrowes fought over who would compose the music. Burrowes fired Howson's composer, John Capek, and replaced him with Bruce Rowlands, then Burrowes bought Boulevard out of the film.
Filming started 7 March 1986.


== Release ==
The film was briefly released theatrically in Australia, before being released on home video internationally. Allmovie calls it an "insipid and cliché-ridden romantic comedy", although Variety conceded the film was "well crafted in every department". David Stratton called the film " neither funny nor romantic, and will do little for the careers of anyone involved in it." The film received bad reviews generally.
According to Filmink magazine it "could have been a fantastically fun film: it had a terrific support cast... an engaging lead... and an interesting, culturally relevant central theme (whether imported American stars are good or bad in Australian projects). But then they cast Laura Branigan, who can sing but can’t act, and got her to play a role where she acts and can’t sing."
Branigan also performed several songs in the film.
The funding of the film was investigated in an episode of ABC's Four Corners.


== Cast ==
Laura Branigan as Kate Lawrence
Michael Aitkens as Robert Landau
Noel Ferrier as Mortimer Wynde
Rowena Wallace as Evelyn Hough
Kym Gyngell as Paarvo
Mary Ward as Geraldine Woollencraft
John Frawley
Tommy Dysart as Head Waiter / Reception
Jeremy Stanford as Bellboy
Judith McGrath as Hotel Receptionist


== See also ==
Cinema of Australia


== References ==


== External links ==
Backstage at IMDb
Backstage at Oz Movies

Brad Mackay  (born 7 February 1969 in Sydney, New South Wales) is an Australian former rugby league footballer who played in the 1980s and 1990s. A versatile lock for the St George Dragons, Illawarra Steelers, Western Reds and the joint-venture of St. George Illawarra Dragons, he also represented New South Wales in the State of Origin and Australia.


== Playing career ==
A St George junior from the Brighton Seagulls club, Mackay was graded by the Dragons in 1987 and then played 117 games with club over eight seasons until 1994 scoring 22 tries. Playing all positions in the backline bar halfback, he was most remembered for his lock position in his peak.
Mackay debuted for the New South Wales Blues as a reserve in game II of the 1989 State of Origin series. He went on to play 17 Origin games between 1989 and 1995, scoring three tries at that level.
Mackay had his best season in 1990, making his test début for Australia in the mid-season test against France, becoming only the second player to score a hat trick of tries on début for Australia. A month after the France test, Mackay went on to play in a one-off test against New Zealand. Following the season he was selected for the 1990 Kangaroo Tour, coming into the test team for the winning 2nd and 3rd Ashes Tests against Great Britain before playing in the two tests against France.
After failing to hold his test place in 1991, Mackay was selected for the first two tests against Great Britain during the Lions 1992 tour of Australasia but missed the last match of the series through injury. After playing in a World Cup qualifying match against Papua New Guinea in Townsville, Mackay was used as a replacement in the Dragons 8-28 Grand Final loss to the Brisbane Broncos and missed a place in Australia's World Cup Final winning team.
1993 saw Mackay continue his good form and he was the starting lock forward for NSW in all three State of Origin games in the Blues 2–1 series win over Queensland. The return from injury of Bradley Clyde would see Mackay on the bench for Australia in the 1st and 3rd Trans-Tasman Tests against New Zealand.
Later that year he became one of only four players (the others being Bradley Clyde in 1991, Daly Cherry-Evans in 2013 and Jack Wighton in 2019) to win the Clive Churchill Medal from the losing side when the Dragons went down 6–14 in the Grand Final, again to the Brisbane Broncos.
St. George's form dropped markedly in 1994 and Mackay could only make the Bench for NSW in their 1994 State of Origin series win over Queensland, with NSW coach Phil Gould preferring Bradley Clyde at lock. He made his final test appearance for Australia from the interchange bench in the 1994 mid-season test against France at Parramatta Stadium, but the Dragons poor form, which saw them fall to 11th on the premiership ladder, saw Mackay overlooked for the 1994 Kangaroo Tour bringing down the curtain on his international career.
Mackay decided to leave the Dragons due to a poor relationship with coach Brian Smith, later saying, "Brian had signed an extension on his contract and so I felt like I needed a change or I'd go down the drain as a player."
Mackay joined the Western Reds in 1995, accepting the foundation captaincy of the Perth-based side, but moved back east when they joined the Super League franchise from 1996.
He started playing for the Illawarra Steelers in 1996, staying for three seasons over which he played 56 games. A return to his best form and season-long consistency in 1997 earned him the BHP Medal as the Steelers' player of the year. Mackay later became part of the new St. George when the joint venture was formed in 1999, playing 24 games, including an appearance from the bench in the 1999 NRL Grand Final loss to the Melbourne Storm.
Mackay had played a total of 248 first grade games over 12 years.
Mackay played out his career in the 2000 season with the Bradford Bulls in the UK, winning the Challenge Cup Final with them.


== Post playing ==
Brad Mackay is a committed Christian. In 2003, he was active in fund raising for the Joanne Mackay Helping Hand Foundation following the 2002 passing of wife, Joanne from breast cancer.
He lives in the Illawarra area with his second wife, Tracy and is a fireman.


== References ==


== External links ==
State of Origin Official website Rugby League Player Stats
Joanne Mackay Foundation website

Bangladesh National Film Award for Best Supporting Actor (Bengali: জাতীয় চলচ্চিত্র পুরস্কার) is the highest award for actors in a supporting role in Bangladesh. It was awarded up to now 47 times from 1975 (1st) until 2022 (47th). The actor most often awarded is Fazlur Rahman Babu.


== List of winners ==
Key


== Records and statistics ==


=== Multiple wins ===
The following individuals received two or more Best Supporting Actor awards:


== See also ==
Bangladesh National Film Award for Best Supporting Actress
Bangladesh National Film Award for Best Actor
Bangladesh National Film Award for Best Actress


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Sources ==

Foreign National was a bar and restaurant in Seattle, Washington, United States. It operated from 2016 to 2025.


== Description ==
The bar and restaurant Foreign National was adjacent to the Vietnamese fusion restaurant Stateside; the two businesses haven been referred to as "sibling" establishments. The 28-seat bar had a large mosaic disco ball and also served Vietnamese cuisine. The menu included cheeseburger bao, chicken curry puffs, and fried potatoes. Among drinks was the Singapore Sling, the Expat Punch with passion fruit juice and Taittinger, and the Long Thailand Iced Tea, which had brandy, rum, rye, and Thai tea.


== History ==
Eric Johnson was the chef and owner. The bar opened in 2016 and closed on July 31, 2025.
The interior was designed by Callie Meyer.


== Reception ==
In Condé Nast Traveler's 2018 list of Seattle's fifteen best bars, Jessica Voelker wrote, "You know you've been to a great cocktail bar when you walk out feeling pleasantly disoriented, like you've just been transported to some faraway land. A little bit tiki, a little bit disco, Foreign National is such a bar."


== See also ==
List of defunct restaurants of the United States
List of Vietnamese restaurants
Vietnamese in Seattle


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Machalilla may refer to:

Machalilla culture, an ancient culture/people in Ecuador
Machalilla Parish, a rural parish of Puerto López Canton, Manabí Province
Machalilla National Park, a national park around Machalilla Parish

The F65 (known as the Nikon N65 in the U.S. and the Nikon U in Japan) is a 35mm film SLR camera introduced by Nikon in 2001.


== History and design ==
Like its predecessor, the F60, the F65 was aimed at the lower end of the amateur autofocus SLR market.
Its features included autofocus, various forms of TTL light metering and different operating modes. It also included depth-of-field preview and remote-shutter release, two facilities notably absent in the F60.
The F65D variant featured a date/time-imprinting facility.
In 2002, the F65 was joined by the F55, which was targeted at a new, lower price point.


== Features ==
14 oz polycarbonate body
Exposure modes: Auto-Multi Program, five Vari-Program modes, Shutter priority, Aperture Priority and full manual mode
Built-in flash (GN 40) with Auto, Slow and Rear sync modes
5-point matrix CAM900 autofocus sensor
Shutter speeds from 1/2000s to 30s and Bulb mode
Supports DX-coded film up to ISO 5000


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Nikon F65 at Wikimedia Commons

We Might Regret This is a British comedy drama television series created by and starring Kyla Harris about a thirty-something Canadian tetraplegic woman who moves to London. It premiered on 19 August 2024 on BBC Two. The second series began production in June 2025, and was released on 25 February 2026.


== Premise ==
Freya is a Canadian tetraplegic woman in her thirties when she moves to London to live with Abe. She requires constant personal assistance to provide her care, but after not being able to find an appropriate personal assistant, invites her best friend Jo to take the job.


== Cast and characters ==
Kyla Harris as Freya
Darren Boyd as Abe
Elena Saurel as Jo
Edward Bluemel as Levi
Sally Phillips as Jane
Aasiya Shah as Ty
Emma Sidi as Olivia
Hanako Footman as Olyvya
Jessie Mei Li as Haruka


== Production ==
We Might Regret This was initially reported in November 2022 to be in development as a Channel 4 pilot. The series was greenlit by the BBC in June 2023 to be a joint British and American production between Village Roadshow and Roughcut. The director is Nick Collett. It is produced by Inez Gordon and executive produced by Ash Atalla, Alex Smith and Rebecca Murrell. The story is inspired by the lived experience of co-writers Harris and Getty. Executive producer Atalla, a wheelchair user himself, has spoken of his wish to produce a high-end quality show on the subject matter. Filming got underway in October 2023.
In October 2024, We Might Regret This was renewed for two more six-part series. Production on the second series commenced in June 2025.


== Broadcast ==

The series was broadcast in the UK on BBC Two on 19 August 2024.


== Reception ==
In December 2024, the series was included in the best of the year list by Emily Baker in the  i (newspaper) who described it as "genuinely groundbreaking in its approach to disability, not shying away from the difficulties of being a wheelchair user but also not reducing a person to just their disability. Most importantly, though, it was very, very funny".


== References ==


== External links ==
We Might Regret This at BBC Online
We Might Regret This at British Comedy Guide
We Might Regret This at IMDb

Getúlio Vargas (1882–1954) was a Brazilian politician who served as the 14th and 17th President of Brazil.
Getúlio Vargas may also refer to:

Getúlio Vargas (footballer) (born 1983), Brazilian footballer
Getúlio Vargas, Rio Grande do Sul, a municipality in  Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
Fundação Getulio Vargas, a Brazilian higher education institution

Alhinho is a Portuguese surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Alexandre Alhinho (born 1953), Cape Verdean footballer and manager
Carlos Alhinho (1949–2008), Portuguese footballer and manager
Valdo Alhinho (born 1988), Angolan footballer

The third season of The Great American Baking Show aired on December 7, 2017 with a two-hour premiere on ABC. The first two episodes aired back-to-back as part of ABC's 25 Days of Christmas lineup before being pulled by ABC on December 13, 2017 following sexual misconduct allegations against judge Johnny Iuzzini.
This is the first season for new hosts Ayesha Curry and Anthony "Spice" Adams along with The Great British Bake Off judge, Paul Hollywood, who joined judge Johnny Iuzzini. Season two baker, Antoinette Love, who withdrew from the competition following her father's death, returned to the competition. The show was filmed in Iver Heath, UK over a three-week time period. The shooting sequence was two days of filming followed by one day break during those three weeks.
On December 21, 2017, the day in which the finale was originally to air, ABC announced that Vallery Lomas won the competition, beating out runners-up Cindy Maliniak and Molly Brodak in the final week. Lomas' winning dish was a three pastry/dessert tower.


== Bakers ==


== Results summary ==

Color key:

[a] The Star Baker and elimination results for episodes 3, 4 and 5 were released on the show's official Facebook page and ABC's YouTube.
[b] ABC announced the winner and runners-up in a season recap posted the day the finale was to be broadcast.


== Episodes ==


=== Episode 1: Cake ===
For the first signature bake, the bakers were given two hours to bake a "naked" cake, a cake that is not entirely covered in icing. The technical bake, assigned by Paul Hollywood, required the bakers to create nine identical lamingtons covered with a white chocolate coating and coconut flakes. In the showstopper, bakers had two hours and thirty minutes to bake a decorative holiday Swiss roll with an evenly distributed spiral filling.
Color key:   Eliminated   Star Baker   Winner


=== Episode 2: Morning Treats ===
In the show's first morning treats week, the bakers had two hours and thirty minutes to either bake or fry one dozen yeasted donuts complete with a filling of their choice. For the technical, bakers created eight identical savory breakfast hand pies with distinct flaky layers and an even filling. The showstopper of the week required bakers to make a centerpiece sweet loaf with a distinct spiral on the inside.


=== Unaired episodes ===
Highlights from the unaired desserts week and cookies week were released on the show's official Facebook page and ABC's YouTube channel on December 29, 2017. French week and finals week followed on January 2, 2018.


==== Dessert ====


==== Cookies ====


==== French (Semi-Finals) ====


==== Final ====


== Ratings ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Dessert Week (Season 3) - The Great American Baking Show on YouTube
Cookie Week (Season 3) - The Great American Baking Show on YouTube
French Week (Season 3) - The Great American Baking Show on YouTube
Finale (Season 3) - The Great American Baking Show on YouTube

Founded in 2012, the Building Academic Retention Through K9s (B.A.R.K) program operates out of the University of British Columbia Okanagan (UBCO). The program brings therapy dogs to the UBCO campus with a goal of reducing student stress, homesickness, and loneliness by improving overall wellbeing of students, staff, and faculty on campus. According to Dr. John-Tyler Binfet, the director of the program, "Having a therapy dog program on a college or university campus helps create a sense of community for students and provides a low-barrier and low-cost way for students to take care of themselves". The program has over four thousand visitors per year. 


== Background ==
Dr. John-Tyler Binfet, Professor at UBCO, founded the B.A.R.K program in 2012 with the support of Dr. Ian Cull, UBCO's former Associate Vice-President of Students. Dr. Binfet was inspired to begin this initiative after an experience he had on UBCO's campus saying "Upon my arrival to UBC, I would walk across campus with my dog Frances and would be besieged by students. Students would immediately begin interacting with Frances and would eventually look up and with tear-filled eyes say 'As much as I miss my parents, I miss my dog more'. It was at that moment that the idea to offer a canine-assisted visitation program was born." The program now has over 70 dog and handler volunteers and is run by Dr. Binfet along with university student volunteers. 


== Programs ==

Noticing an increased demand for B.A.R.K. programming throughout the semester, UBCO students Charlie Drummond and Christy Hui pitched a new program idea at Pitch This in 2015. Between the students innovation and funding from Pitch This, B.A.R.K.2Go was launched. B.A.R.K.2Go involves smaller therapy dog stations set up at four locations across the UBCO campus on Wednesday afternoons and is designed to provide easy-access and low-barrier support to students during their regular day-to-day activities on campus.   
In 2018, B.A.R.K. held a pilot program to study the impact of therapy dogs and stress reduction in law enforcement officers and staff. Following the pilot program, an ongoing partnership with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the City of Kelowna and B.A.R.K. was established. This program has since expanded and now a team of 5-8 dogs attend bi-weekly to provide opportunities for stress reduction and community building within the detachment setting. 


== Bibliography ==
Optimizing Therapy Dog-Handler Team Welfare: A Guide for Researchers and Practitioners
Virtual Human-Animal Interactions: Supporting Learning, Social Connections, and Well-being
Canine-Assisted Interventions: A Comprehensive Guide to Credentialing Therapy Dog Teams
B.A.R.K. Program: Supporting College Students at UBC (Chapter in Handbook of Animal-Assisted Therapy by A. H. Fine)
Canine-Assisted Interventions: Insights from the B.A.R.K Program and Future Research Directions (Chapter in Canine Cognition and the Human Bond by J.R. Stevens)


== References ==


== External links ==
B.A.R.K Official Website

Cape Verde–Guinea Bissau relations refers to the bilateral relationship between the Republic of Cape Verde (Cabo Verde) and the Republic of Guinea-Bissau. Cape Verde is an island country about 900 km north-west of Guinea-Bissau, a coastal West African country. Both were colonies of the Portuguese Empire and they campaigned together for independence with a plan for unification, but the countries separated after 1980. The two countries were both founder members of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries (CPLP) in 1996, and are each members of the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS).


== Colonial history ==
The area on the mainland under Portuguese rule now containing Guinea-Bissau was originally called "Guiné de Cabo Verde". Cape Verde was a site of transit in the slave trade from Guinea-Bissau to the Americas. Portuguese Cape Verde supplied many colonial officials for the mainland Portuguese Guinea, later Guinea-Bissau, at one point making up three-quarters of the civil service.


== Independence ==
Cape Verde and Guinea-Bissau campaigned together for independence from Portugal, chiefly led by Amílcar Cabral's Marxist African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC) from 1956. Cape Verde provided the bourgeoisie that led the anti-colonial movement in Portuguese Guinea. An ideology of unity was key to Cabral's theory of African liberation, and Cabral was himself Cape Verdean Guinea-Bissauan, though the call for unity was partly a tactic to avoid Guinea-Bissau becoming independent without Cape Verde, as the latter had closer ties to Portugal. The PAIGC then fought the Guinea-Bissau War of Independence (part of the wider Portuguese Colonial War), and declared independence in 1973, being formally granted independence in September 1974. Cape Verde joined Guinea-Bissau in independence from Portugal when it peacefully negotiated independence on 5 July 1975, following the April 1974 Carnation Revolution in Portugal, and Aristides Pereira of the PAIGC became president. The intent was unification, as written into the two countries' constitutions. The PAIGC viewed them as "sister republics" with "two bodies with only one heart", and the countries shared a flag and national anthem.
However, the elites in Cape Verde opposed unification, there were constitutional and legal differences, and the trade between them was minor. On November 14, 1980, a coup d'état by João Bernardo Vieira against "foreign" mestiços overthrew the government of Luís Cabral (half-brother of Amílcar) in Guinea-Bissau, leading to Cape Verde separating under Pedro Pires on January 20, 1981 and forming the ruling African Party for the Independence of Cape Verde (PAICV).


== 1980s–2000s ==
From 1980 to 2000, during the Vieira presidency in Guinea-Bissau, the countries were less closely involved. Guinea-Bissau experienced a lack of development and periods of violence while Cape Verde was relatively stable. Guinea-Bissau was, like other "non-aligned" African states, closer to the Soviet Union, while Cape Verde, nominally Marxist, formed relations with Western countries due to a dependence on food imports following drought. Diplomatic relations were restored after the presidents met in June 1982, and an ambassador from Cape Verde was received by Guinea-Bissau in July 1983.
After multi-party politics was introduced in Cape Verde in 1990, the victorious Movimento para Democracia changed the flag and national anthem away from being similar to that of Guinea-Bissau.
In the 1998 Guinea-Bissau Civil War, triggered by a crackdown on Senagelese separatists in Guinea-Bissau, Cape Verde called for the withdrawal of troops from Senegal and Guinea-Conakry from Guinea-Bissau, there to support Viera. Cape Verde also opposed Viera's request for ECOWAS to send peacekeepers. Cape Verde took in refugees from Guinea-Bissau and helped to negotiate peace as part of the CPLP, with Cape Verdean foreign minister José Luís de Jesus chairing the discussions on a Portuguese warship that led to a ceasefire agreement. The Cape Verde president Peres also mediated during the violent 2005 presidential election campaign in Guinea-Bissau, and following the 2009 assassination of Vieira.


== Bilateral relations post 2010 ==
Relations have improved since the election of Malam Bacai Sanhá in Guinea-Bissau in 2009. The air connection between the countries operated by TACV, which had been suspended following the April 2012 coup in Guinea-Bissau, was restored in June 2015 during a visit of Cape Verdean Prime Minister José Maria Neves to Bissau to meet Domingos Simões Pereira and discuss economic and business relations. Neves had last visited in 2011. The countries signed an agreement on avoiding double taxation that September.


== Cultural relations ==
Cape Verde and Guinea-Bissau share the Portuguese language as their official language, and the Portuguese creole Crioulo language as a recognised language.
Cape Verdean Guinea-Bissauans have formed an Associação dos Filhos e Descendentes de Cabo Verde, and Guinea-Bissauan Cape Verdeans, who number around 8–9000, have formed an Associacao dos Guineeneses Residentes em Cabo Verde. Despite their shared language and culture, immigrants from Guinea-Bissau are often viewed as "manjacos", a derogatory term used for people from mainland Africa and the legalisation of Guinea-Bissauans in Cape Verde has been long delayed.


== Resident diplomatic missions ==
Cape Verde has an embassy in Bissau.
Guinea-Bissau has an embassy in Praia.


== See also ==
Conference of Nationalist Organizations of the Portuguese Colonies
Foreign relations of Guinea-Bissau
Foreign relations of Cape Verde
Cape Verdean Guinea-Bissauan


== References ==


== External links ==
News on Cape Verde–Guinea-Bissau relations on Macau Hub

Arthur Higelin (born 27 March 1966), better known under his stage name Arthur H (IPA: [aʁtyʁ ɑʃ]), is a French singer-songwriter and pianist. He is best known in France for his live performances—four of his albums were recorded live.


== Life and career ==
He is the son of the French singer Jacques Higelin and Nicole Courtois. He has a  younger half brother, Ken Higelin, a stage and film actor, theatre director and music video director; and a half sister, Izïa Higelin, a singer. 
After traveling in the West Indies, Higelin studied music in Boston, Massachusetts before returning to Paris. 
In his home city he developed his eclectic but highly personal musical style, drawing on such influences as Thelonious Monk, Serge Gainsbourg, the Sex Pistols, jazz, blues, Middle Eastern music and the tango. He first performed in 1988 in clubs in Paris, as leader of a trio with bassist Brad Scott and drummer Paul Jothy.
His first album, Arthur H (1990), combined rhythmic experimentation and bal-musette elements with a vocal style that has been compared to Tom Waits.  He toured widely around this time, particularly in France and Japan, adding a fourth band member, Jon Handelsman (saxophone). They produced a second album, Bachibouzouk (1992). 
In early 1993, Higelin and his band did a six-week season at the Magic Mirrors, an antique circus big top. They later produced it as a touring show and recorded it on the live album En chair et en os.
In 1996, he released the album Trouble Fête, following which he performed a season at the Gymnase in Paris. The live album Fête Trouble (1997) included some tracks from these shows as well as others recorded on tour in Africa. He toured the United States and Canada in 1998.
In 2000, he wrote the soundtrack for Michel Couvelard's film, Inséparables, before touring in Asia and Canada. His next album, Pour Madame X (2000), featured the touring band of Nicolas Repac (guitar), Brad Scott (double bass) and Laurent Robin (drums).
In 2001, he took part in the show Le Cabaret Imprudent with "Le Cirque Cahin-caha". The following year, he released the album Piano Solo, recorded live in a studio and mainly consisting of solo interpretations of earlier songs. This was followed by a band album, Négresse Blanche (2003), comprising tracks dedicated to the memory of famous women such as Marilyn Kaddish and Bo Derek.
In 2005, a planned tour of China was cancelled, and he returned to the studio to record the album Adieu Tristesse. This was the most commercially successful of his career, and included several duets, one with his father and another, "Est-ce que tu aimes?", with the musician -M- (Matthieu Chedid). He subsequently toured widely in France, Lebanon and Canada.
In 2006, he published a book, Onirique attaque, containing lyrics, reflections and photographs.  He also composed the soundtrack for the film L'homme qui rêvait d'un enfant, directed by Delphine Gleize. The soundtrack was performed by an ensemble of children from a local music school.
The album Show Time, issued late in 2006, was recorded live on tour and includes duets with Matthieu Chedid, Pauline Croze, Lhasa de Sela and Jacques Higelin. In June 2008 he released the album L'Homme du Monde, which won the award of Pop/Rock Album of the Year 2009 at La Victoire de la Musique.
His 2010 double CD, Mystic Rumba, contained 24 songs from his repertoire performed solo at the piano, the result in part of a snow storm which cut the power in his studio during recording. The next album, Baba Love, was released in October 2011. In 2012, he collaborated with Nicolas Repac on the album L'Or Noir, comprising musical settings of poems by Caribbean writers.


== Discography ==


=== Albums ===


=== Compilation albums ===
2009: 2 For 1: Arthur H + Trouble-fête
2010: 2 For 1: Négresse blanche + Adieu tristesse
2011: Master Serie
2012: Les 50 Plus Belles Chansons (3-CD compilation)
2015: 2cd originaux: Baba Love / Soleil dedans


=== Live albums ===


=== Soundtracks ===
1999: Inséparables


=== Singles ===


== Books published ==
2006: Onirique attaque


== Awards ==
1993: Victoires de la Musique (France) – Popular music – best male newcomer (révélation)
2006: Victoires de la Musique – Music video of the year for Est Ce Que Tu Aimes
2009: Victoires de la Musique – Pop/rock album of the year for L'Homme du Monde


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website
Biography (archived)
Arthur H at AllMusic

Kurudiol Lagoon (Ukrainian: Курудіол; Romanian: Curughiol; Turkish: Kurugöl) is a salty lagoon in the Tuzly Lagoons group in Bilhorod-Dnistrovskyi Raion of Odesa Oblast, Ukraine. It is located between the Alibey and Burnas Lagoons. The water body is included to the Tuzly Lagoons National Nature Park.


== Sources ==
Starushenko L.I., Bushuyev S.G. (2001) Prichernomorskiye limany Odeschiny i ih rybohoziaystvennoye znacheniye. Astroprint, Odesa, 151 pp. (in Russian)

Charles Hotson Murray Ebden (29 June 1880 – 24 May 1949), sometimes known as Tommy Ebden, was an English cricketer active from 1902 to 1909 who played for Sussex and Middlesex in the County Championship. He also played first-class cricket for Cambridge University, Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) and Scotland, and with Lord Brackley's XI on tour in the West Indies. He was born in Westminster and died in Elvanfoot, Lanarkshire. He appeared in 40 first-class matches as a righthanded batsman who scored 1,465 runs with a highest score of 137. Ebden also represented England at hockey.
Ebden was educated at Eton and Trinity College, Cambridge. During World War I he was a Lieutenant in the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve.


== Notes ==

The 1970 All-South Independent football team consists of American football players chosen by the Associated Press for their All-South independent teams for the 1970 NCAA University Division football season.


== Offense ==
Quarterback

Tommy Warren, Florida State
Honorable Mention: Rick Donegan, Southern Mississippi
Running backs

Dave Abercrombie, Tulane
Brent Cunningham, Georgia Tech
Honorable Mentions: Larry Moulton, Southern Mississippi; Tom Sullivan, Miami
Wide receivers

Steve Barrios, Tulane
Rhett Dawson, Florida State
Honorable Mention: Larry Studdard, Georgia Tech
Tight end

Joe Schmidt, Miami
Tackles

Rick Lantz, Georgia Tech
Richard Gardner, Georgia Tech
Honorable Mentions: Chipp Dewitt, Tulane; Mike Paul, Tulane
Guards

Allen Wilkenfeld, Tulane
Center

Allen Dees, Florida State


== Defense ==
Defensive linemen

Rock Perdoni, Georgia Tech
Robert McEachern, Florida State
Mike Walker, Tulane
Hugh Eggersman, Southern Mississippi
Honorable Mentions: Mike Barnes, Miami; Jack Chauvet, Miami
Linebackers

Dickey Surace, Southern Mississippi
Rick Kingrea, Tulane
Bill Flowers, Georgia Tech
Honorable Mentions: Ball Davis, Southern Mississippi; Ray Hester, Tulane; Bo Dunn, Miami; Bill Lohse, Florida State
Defensive backs

James Thomas, Florida State
Joe Bullard, Tulane
Jeff Ford, Georgia Tech
Paul Ellis, Tulane
Honorable Mentions: Rick Lewis, Georgia Tech; Eddie McMillan, Florida State


== Special teams ==
Kicker

Ray Guy, Southern Mississippi
Honorable Mention: Frank Fontes, Florida State
Punter

Ray Guy, Southern Mississippi


== References ==

The National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal (NIDSM) is a decoration awarded for service to the United States Intelligence Community. The decoration is awarded to any member or contributor to the National Intelligence Community, either civilian or military, who distinguishes themselves by meritorious actions to the betterment of national security in the United States of America, through sustained and selfless service of the highest order.
The National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal was once considered junior to the older National Security Medal.  With the establishment of the National Intelligence Awards (NIA) Program by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), the National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal was the highest decoration in the program. An update to the NIA program added awards and changed precedence, with the NIDSM being succeeded by the Intelligence Community Medal for Valor in the order of precedence.
As an authorized U.S. non-military decoration on U.S. military uniforms, the National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal is worn after U.S. military unit awards and before U.S. military campaign and service awards.


== Appearance ==
The National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal is a gold colored medal 1+5⁄8 inches (41 mm) across. The obverse design consists of a white 16 pointed star surmounted by a gold heraldic rose. In the center of the rose is a dark blue disc bearing an eight pointed compass rose in gold. The reverse bears the words NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE DISTINGUISHED SERVICE, one word on each line, all in gold.
The medal's ribbon, which is from the original, is 1+3⁄8 inches (35 mm) wide. The ribbon is white with 1⁄8 inch (3.2 mm) blue stripes at both edges. In the center is a 1⁄8 inch (3.2 mm) scarlet stripe flanked by 1⁄8 inch (3.2 mm) yellow stripes.
Symbolically, the heraldic rose is a symbol of secrecy and confidence, referring to the term sub rosa which is Latin for "under the rose." That symbol has traditionally been used to describe something to be kept secret and not repeated elsewhere. Blue represents loyalty, and is taken from the seal of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. The compass rose in the center of the medal symbolizes the world-wide mission of the organization, while the points of the white star also allude to compass points. The white color represents honesty, truth and optimism.


== Known recipients ==


== Recipients gallery ==


== See also ==
Distinguished Service Medal (disambiguation)
Awards and decorations of the United States government


== Sources ==

Yasin Abdullahi Mahamoud (born 11 January 1998), known as Yasin or Yasin Byn, is a Swedish rapper and singer.


== Early life ==
Yasin Abdullahi Mahamoud was born to a Somali family in Rinkeby, part of the Swedish Million Programme for affordable housing in northwest Stockholm, and grew up with his mother and five siblings. His stage name Yasin Byn hints at his connection to Rinkeby, which is popularly called Byn ("the village").


== Career ==
Mahamoud started in hip hop music recording online videos with his childhood friends, including Jaffar Byn. That led to him joining the Swedish hip hop collective Byn Block Entertainment (BBE) with aspiring artists mostly from Rinkeby. BBE subsequently started collaborating with artists from the wider Järva region, forming the larger hip hop collective Ghetto Superstars. In 2016, his music was included in the Ghetto Superstars compilation album Allstars.
In 2019, he released his official debut single "DSGIS", an abbreviation of det som göms i snö ( meaning "that which is hidden in snow") from a Swedish proverb. The follow-up single "XO" in collaboration with Swedish rapper Dree Low topped Sverigetopplistan, the Swedish national record chart. Yasin's album Handen under Mona Lisas kjol (Pt:1) topped the Swedish album chart. His single, "Talk 2 Me", was released in December 2020 and reached the first spot on the Swedish Singles Chart.


== Convictions ==
Mahamoud was sentenced in May 2018 to two years and three months' imprisonment for aggravated weapon-related crimes. He was released after serving two-thirds of his sentence.
On 31 December 2020, Mahamoud was arrested and detained on the charge of kidnapping of rival rapper Einár and was sentenced to 10 months in prison by the Stockholm District Court in 2021. He was later released from prison on 28 December 2021.


== Discography ==


=== Studio albums ===


=== Compilation albums ===


=== EPs ===


=== Singles ===


=== Other charted and certified songs ===


== Notes ==


== References ==

The econometrics of risk is a specialized field within econometrics that focuses on the quantitative modeling and statistical analysis of risk in various economic and financial contexts. It integrates mathematical modeling, probability theory, and statistical inference to assess uncertainty, measure risk exposure, and predict potential financial losses. The discipline is widely applied in financial markets, insurance, macroeconomic policy, and corporate risk management.


== Historical Development ==
The econometrics of risk emerged from centuries of interdisciplinary advances in mathematics, economics, and decision theory. Drawing on Sakai’s framework, its evolution is categorized into six distinct stages, each shaped by influential thinkers and historical events.
1. Initial (Pre-1700)

Foundations in probability: Blaise Pascal and Pierre de Fermat formalized probability theory in 1654 through their correspondence on gambling problems (“the problem of points”). Pascal’s work extended to philosophical debates, such as Pascal's wager, framed through early utility concepts.
Risk-sharing mechanisms: Early institutions like Lloyd's Coffee House (1688), marine insurance, and stock exchanges (e.g., London Stock Exchange, founded in 1801, with precursors as early as 1571) addressed practical risks in trade and exploration.
Limitations: Mercantilism dominated but lacked formal economic frameworks.
2. 1700–1880: Bernoulli and Adam Smith

Daniel Bernoulli: Introduced expected utility theory (1738) to resolve the St. Petersburg paradox, replacing expected monetary value with logarithmic utility functions.
Adam Smith: In The Wealth of Nations (1776), analyzed risk-bearing in markets, noting behavioral biases.
Key events: The rise of insurance (e.g., Tokio Marine Nichido, founded 1879) and political upheavals (e.g., American independence (1776); French Revolution (1789)) highlighted the need for systematic risk thinking.
3. 1880–1940: Keynes and Knight

Keynes: In A Treatise on Probability (1921), distinguished between risk (quantifiable) and uncertainty (non-quantifiable), introducing concepts like animal spirits.
Frank H. Knight: In Risk, Uncertainty and Profit (1921), emphasized that profit arises from non-insurable uncertainty.
Context: World War I, the Great Depression, and the 1923 Great Kantō earthquake shaped early economic risk studies.
4. 1940–1970: Von Neumann and Morgenstern

Game theory: John von Neumann and Oskar Morgenstern introduced the expected utility hypothesis in their 1944 work Theory of Games and Economic Behavior.
Portfolio theory: Harry Markowitz (1952) developed mean-variance analysis for optimizing risk-return trade-offs.
Post-war shifts: Advances in computation and Cold War economics (e.g., Monte Carlo simulations) supported risk modeling.
5. 1970–2000: Arrow, Akerlof, Spence, and Stiglitz

Information asymmetry: George Akerlof’s “The Market for Lemons” (1970), Michael Spence’s signaling theory, and Joseph Stiglitz’s screening models reshaped credit risk modeling.
Volatility models: Robert F. Engle’s ARCH (1982) and Tim Bollerslev’s GARCH (1986) enabled time-varying volatility estimation.
Crises: Events like the 1973 oil crisis, the Chernobyl disaster (1986), and the dissolution of the Soviet Union (1991) exposed model weaknesses.
6. Uncertain age (2000–Present)

Systemic risks: The 2008 financial crisis and Fukushima nuclear disaster (2011) revealed the limitations of VaR models.
New tools: Machine learning, extreme value theory, and Bayesian networks are increasingly applied to model tail risk.
Regulation: Basel III and Basel IV standards emphasize stress testing and liquidity risk.


== Key econometric models in risk analysis ==


=== Traditional latent variable models ===
Econometric models frequently embed deterministic utility differences into a cumulative distribution function (CDF), allowing analysts to estimate decision-making under uncertainty. A common example is the binary logit model:

  
    
      
        Pr
        (
        
          y
          
            i
          
        
        =
        1
        )
        =
        F
        (
        
          x
          
            i
          
          ′
        
        β
        )
        ,
        
        
          where 
        
        F
        (
        z
        )
        =
        
          
            1
            
              1
              +
              
                e
                
                  −
                  z
                
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Pr(y_{i}=1)=F(x_{i}'\beta ),\quad {\text{where }}F(z)={\frac {1}{1+e^{-z}}}}
  

This setup assumes a homoscedastic logistic error term, which can result in systematic distortions in the estimation of risk preferences if scale is ignored.


=== Contextual utility model ===
To address scale confounds in standard models, Wilcox (2011) proposed the contextual utility (CU) model. It divides the utility difference by the contextual range of all option pairs in the choice set:

  
    
      
        Pr
        (
        A
        ≻
        B
        )
        =
        F
        
          (
          
            
              
                U
                (
                A
                )
                −
                U
                (
                B
                )
              
              
                
                  max
                  
                    C
                    ,
                    D
                  
                
                
                  |
                
                U
                (
                C
                )
                −
                U
                (
                D
                )
                
                  |
                
              
            
          
          )
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Pr(A\succ B)=F\left({\frac {U(A)-U(B)}{\max _{C,D}|U(C)-U(D)|}}\right)}
  

This model satisfies several desirable properties, including monotonicity, stochastic dominance, and contextual scale invariance.


=== Random preference models ===
Random preference models assume agents draw their preferences from a population distribution, generating heterogeneity in observed choices:

  
    
      
        
          U
          
            i
            t
          
        
        =
        
          x
          
            i
            t
          
          ′
        
        
          β
          
            i
          
        
        +
        
          ϵ
          
            i
            t
          
        
        ,
        
        
          β
          
            i
          
        
        ∼
        N
        (
        
          
            
              β
              ¯
            
          
        
        ,
        Σ
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle U_{it}=x_{it}'\beta _{i}+\epsilon _{it},\quad \beta _{i}\sim N({\bar {\beta }},\Sigma )}
  

This framework accounts for preference variation across individuals and enables richer modeling in panel data and experimental contexts.


=== Credit risk models ===
Binary classification models are extensively used in credit scoring. For instance, the probit model for default risk is:

  
    
      
        Pr
        (
        
          
            Default
          
          
            i
          
        
        =
        1
        )
        =
        Φ
        (
        
          x
          
            i
          
          ′
        
        β
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Pr({\text{Default}}_{i}=1)=\Phi (x_{i}'\beta )}
  

Alternatively, in duration-based settings, proportional hazards models are common:

  
    
      
        h
        (
        t
        
          |
        
        
          x
          
            i
          
        
        )
        =
        
          h
          
            0
          
        
        (
        t
        )
        exp
        ⁡
        (
        
          x
          
            i
          
          ′
        
        β
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle h(t|x_{i})=h_{0}(t)\exp(x_{i}'\beta )}
  

Here, 
  
    
      
        
          h
          
            0
          
        
        (
        t
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle h_{0}(t)}
  
 is the baseline hazard, and 
  
    
      
        
          x
          
            i
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle x_{i}}
  
 represents borrower characteristics.


=== Insurance risk models ===
Insurance econometrics often uses frequency-severity models. The expected aggregate claims are the product of the expected number of claims and the expected claim size:

  
    
      
        
          E
        
        [
        Z
        ]
        =
        
          E
        
        [
        N
        ]
        ⋅
        
          E
        
        [
        X
        ]
        ,
        
        Z
        =
        
          ∑
          
            i
            =
            1
          
          
            N
          
        
        
          X
          
            i
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {E} [Z]=\mathbb {E} [N]\cdot \mathbb {E} [X],\quad Z=\sum _{i=1}^{N}X_{i}}
  

Typically, 
  
    
      
        N
      
    
    {\displaystyle N}
  
 follows a Poisson distribution, and 
  
    
      
        
          X
          
            i
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle X_{i}}
  
 may follow gamma or Pareto distributions.


=== Marketing risk models ===
In marketing analytics, rare event models are used to study infrequent purchases or churn behavior. The zero-inflated Poisson (ZIP) model is common:

  
    
      
        Pr
        (
        Y
        =
        0
        )
        =
        π
        +
        (
        1
        −
        π
        )
        
          e
          
            −
            λ
          
        
        ,
        
        Pr
        (
        Y
        =
        y
        )
        =
        (
        1
        −
        π
        )
        
          
            
              
                λ
                
                  y
                
              
              
                e
                
                  −
                  λ
                
              
            
            
              y
              !
            
          
        
        ,
        
        y
        >
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Pr(Y=0)=\pi +(1-\pi )e^{-\lambda },\quad \Pr(Y=y)=(1-\pi ){\frac {\lambda ^{y}e^{-\lambda }}{y!}},\quad y>0}
  

Mixed logit models allow for random taste variation:

  
    
      
        Pr
        (
        
          y
          
            i
            t
          
        
        =
        j
        )
        =
        ∫
        
          
            
              e
              
                
                  x
                  
                    i
                    j
                    t
                  
                  ′
                
                β
              
            
            
              
                ∑
                
                  k
                
              
              
                e
                
                  
                    x
                    
                      i
                      k
                      t
                    
                    ′
                  
                  β
                
              
            
          
        
        f
        (
        β
        )
        
        d
        β
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Pr(y_{it}=j)=\int {\frac {e^{x_{ijt}'\beta }}{\sum _{k}e^{x_{ikt}'\beta }}}f(\beta )\,d\beta }
  

These are useful when modeling risk-averse consumer behavior and product choice under uncertainty.


=== Volatility models (ARCH/GARCH/SV) ===
Autoregressive conditional heteroskedasticity models (ARCH) allow conditional variance to depend on past shocks, capturing volatility clustering.  Bollerslev’s GARCH model generalizes ARCH by including lagged variances.  Exponential GARCH (EGARCH) and other variants capture asymmetries (e.g. leverage effects). A distinct class is stochastic volatility (SV) models, which assume volatility follows its own latent stochastic process (e.g., Taylor 1986). These models are central to financial risk, used to forecast time-varying risk and derivative pricing.


=== Risk measures (VaR, expected shortfall) and quantile methods ===
Econometricians estimate risk measures like value at risk (VaR) and expected shortfall (ES) using both parametric and nonparametric methods. For example, extreme value theory (EVT) can be used to model tail risk in financial returns, yielding estimates of high-quantile losses. Jon Danielsson (1998) notes that traditional models (often assuming normality) tend to underestimate tail risk, leading to applications of EVT to VaR estimation. Quantile regression is another tool for VaR forecasting: by directly modeling a conditional quantile of returns, one can estimate the maximum expected loss at a given confidence level.


=== Advanced techniques ===
Copula models: Are used for multivariate risk modeling where marginal distributions are known, and the dependency structure is modeled separately:

  
    
      
        F
        (
        
          x
          
            1
          
        
        ,
        
          x
          
            2
          
        
        ,
        .
        .
        .
        ,
        
          x
          
            n
          
        
        )
        =
        C
        (
        
          F
          
            1
          
        
        (
        
          x
          
            1
          
        
        )
        ,
        
          F
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          x
          
            2
          
        
        )
        ,
        .
        .
        .
        ,
        
          F
          
            n
          
        
        (
        
          x
          
            n
          
        
        )
        ;
        θ
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle F(x_{1},x_{2},...,x_{n})=C(F_{1}(x_{1}),F_{2}(x_{2}),...,F_{n}(x_{n});\theta )}
  

Here 
  
    
      
        C
      
    
    {\displaystyle C}
  
 is the copula function (e.g., Clayton, Gumbel, Gaussian).

Regularization techniques: In high-dimensional settings, LASSO is used to prevent overfitting and improve model selection:

  
    
      
        
          min
          
            β
          
        
        
          (
          
            
              
                1
                
                  2
                  n
                
              
            
            
              ∑
              
                i
                =
                1
              
              
                n
              
            
            (
            
              y
              
                i
              
            
            −
            
              x
              
                i
              
              ′
            
            β
            
              )
              
                2
              
            
            +
            λ
            
              ∑
              
                j
                =
                1
              
              
                p
              
            
            
              |
            
            
              β
              
                j
              
            
            
              |
            
          
          )
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \min _{\beta }\left({\frac {1}{2n}}\sum _{i=1}^{n}(y_{i}-x_{i}'\beta )^{2}+\lambda \sum _{j=1}^{p}|\beta _{j}|\right)}
  

LASSO is increasingly adopted in predictive risk modeling for credit scoring, insurance, and marketing applications.


== Bibliography ==
Wilcox, Nathaniel T. (May 2011). Journal of econometrics.  'Stochastically more risk averse:' A contextual theory of stochastic discrete choice under risk. Volume 162. pp. 89–104. doi:10.1016/j.jeconom.2009.10.012; ISSN 0304-4076
'11. Management of Credit Risk', The Econometrics of Individual Risk (December 2011). Princeton University Press. pp. 208–238. doi:10.1515/9781400829415.209; ISBN 978-1-4008-2941-5


== References ==

Primula frondosa, the leafy primrose (Bulgarian: Старопланинска иглика), is a species of flowering plant in the family Primulaceae, native to the Balkans. It inhabits shady spots in a small region of the central Balkan Mountains range in Bulgaria, where it is found at altitudes from 800 to 2,200 m (2,620 to 7,220 ft). Its populations are situated within the boundaries of the Central Balkan National Park and the nature reserves Sokolna, Dzhendema and Stara Reka.
Growing to 27 cm (11 in) tall by 10 cm (3.9 in) broad, it is a short-lived herbaceous perennial with a rosette of leaves surrounding the central stem. The leaves are covered in a mealy, flour-like substance (farinose). In spring, the plant bears loose umbels of pink flowers with a prominent yellow eye.
In cultivation in the United Kingdom, P. frondosa has been given the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit. It grows well in acidic soils, in similar conditions to those of its cool alpine home.


== References ==

He Wanted Adventure is a 1933 musical by R. P. Weston and Bert Lee. Music was written by Jack Waller and Joseph Tunbridge, with additional lyrics provided by Clifford Grey. It is based on Walter Hackett's 1921 hit play Ambrose Applejohn's Adventure.
Premiering at the Palace Theatre, Manchester it transferred to the West End for a 152 performances at the Saville Theatre which lasted between 28 March and 19 August 1933. The original London cast included Bobby Howes, Wylie Watson, Abraham Sofaer, Judy Gunn, Lena Halliday and Marie Burke.


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Wearing, J.P. The London Stage 1930-1939: A Calendar of Productions, Performers, and Personnel.  Rowman & Littlefield, 2014.

The electoral district of Werribee is an electoral district of the Legislative Assembly in the Australian state of Victoria. It has existed in two incarnations, first from 1976 to 2002, and was created again in the 2013 redistribution and came into effect at the 2014 state election.
Based on the rapidly growing outer south west suburbs of Melbourne, it takes in areas from Tarneit and Lara. It covers the suburbs of Werribee, Wyndham Vale, and the rural areas surrounding these suburbs to the south and west.
Werribee was estimated to be a safe Labor seat with a margin of 11.4%, and was held by Labor with a further 4.2% swing towards them at the 2014 state election.
It was held for over a decade by former Treasurer Tim Pallas, but since the 2025 Werribee state by-election, the division has been held by Labor’s John Lister.


== Members for Werribee ==


=== First incarnation (1976–2002) ===


=== Second incarnation (2014–present) ===


== Election results ==


== References ==


== External links ==
District profile from the Victorian Electoral Commission

Winona Winter (died April 27, 1940) was an American vaudeville performer and silent-film actress.


== Early life ==
Winona Winter was the daughter of minstrel songwriter William Banks Winter and Clara Demming Newman Winter. She had two younger brothers. Winter acted as a child, in The Little Tycoon (1895) in Detroit. In 1901, her skull was examined by phrenologists in a published case study, which found her to be gifted, especially in humor and memory.


== Career ==
In vaudeville Winter was best known for "soubrette" parts, as a singing comedian, and as a ventriloquist. She performed with Will Rogers in Rochester in 1908, in New York in 1910, and in Chicago in 1912, and was associated with Harry Lauder's company in 1922. She was still performing in vaudeville in 1928, with an act she called "Broadway-o-grams", a selection of short character sketches and celebrity impersonations.
Winter appeared in four Broadway musical productions: The Little Cherub (1906–1907), He Came from Milwaukee (1910),  The Fascinating Widow (1911),  and The Broadway Whirl (also called The Century Midnight Whirl) (1921).
She played "Sally" in the silent film The Man from Mexico (1914).


== Personal life ==
Winter married Norman L. Sper, a sports announcer. They had a son, Norman L. Sper Jr., born in 1925.
In 1940, Winter died in Los Angeles, California. Winter was 51.


== References ==


== External links ==
Winona Winter at IMDb
Winona Winter's listing on IBDB.

Synodontis longispinis is a species of upside-down catfish that is endemic to the Republic of the Congo where it is found in the Sangha River.  It was first described by  Jacques Pellegrin in 1930 as Synodontis batesi longspinis, a subspecies of S. batesi with an especially long dorsal fin spine, but it is presently recognized as its own species.  The species name longispinis is derived from the word longus, meaning long, and the word spinis, meaning spine, which is a reference to the long dorsal fin spine on the fish.


== Description ==
Like all members of the genus Synodontis, S. longispinis has a strong, bony head capsule that extends back as far as the first spine of the dorsal fin.  The head contains a distinct narrow, bony, external protrusion called a humeral process.  The fish has three pairs of barbels. The maxillary barbels are on located on the upper jaw, and two pairs of mandibular barbels are on the lower jaw.   The adipose fin is large and the tail, or caudal fin, is forked.
The front edges of the dorsal fins and the pectoral fins are hardened into stiff spines.  These spines can be raised into position at right angles to the body and locked into position for defensive purposes.   The ability to lock the spines into place comes from several small bones attached to the spine, and once raised, the spines cannot be folded down by exerting pressure on the tip.
The fish has a structure called a premaxillary toothpad, which is located on the very front of the upper jaw of the mouth. This structure contains several rows of short, chisel-shaped teeth.  On the lower jaw, or mandible, the teeth are attached to flexible, stalk-like structures and described as "s-shaped" or "hooked".
The maximum standard length of the species is 13.5 centimeters (5.3 in).  Generally, females in the genus Synodontis tend to be slightly larger than males of the same age.


== Habitat and behavior ==
In the wild, the species is only known from its type locality in the Sangha River, but it may be more widespread than is currently known.  The fish is harvested for human consumption.  As a whole, species of Synodontis are omnivores, consuming insect larvae, algae, gastropods, bivalves, sponges, crustaceans, and the eggs of other fishes.  The reproductive habits of most of the species of Synodontis are not known, beyond some instances of obtaining egg counts from gravid females. Spawning likely occurs during the flooding season between July and October, and pairs swim in unison during spawning.   The growth rate is rapid in the first year, then slows down as the fish age.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Data related to Synodontis longispinis at Wikispecies

The Golden God is a 1917 American silent drama film written by Robert Hage and Frederick Rath. The film stars Charles Hutchison, Alma Hanlon, Florence Short, and Mary Doyle. It premiered on June 19, 1917.


== Cast ==
Alma Hanlon as Mary
Florence Short as Estelle
Mary Doyle as Ruth
Charles Hutchinson as George
Al Stearn as Morton
William Hartman as Slatterly
M. Dudley as Daniels


== Censorship ==
Before The Golden God could be exhibited in Kansas, the Kansas Board of Review required the removal of the love scene between Estelle and George in reel 4.


== References ==


== External links ==
The Golden God at IMDb

Shirley Palmer (January 26, 1943 – March 28, 2023) was an American politician who served as a Democratic member of the Kansas House of Representatives, represented the 4th district from 2007 to 2011. Palmer ran for re-election in 2010, but was defeated by Republican Marty Read.
Palmer obtained undergraduate and master's degrees in education from Pittsburg State University.  Prior to being elected, she served as the Democratic Chairperson of Bourbon County, Kansas.
She was a teacher in Kansas for nearly 40 years, retiring in 2005. She served on the Kansas Board of Regents. She also served as the National President of Pittsburg State University Alumni Association.
She was married to her husband Ron for 45 years.  They had two sons and two grandchildren.


== Issue positions ==
Palmer's main issue was public education.  In addition she worked to rebuild Southeast Kansas Communities damaged by flooding in 2007.


== Committee membership ==
Commerce and Labor
Higher Education
Agriculture and Natural Resources
Joint Committee on Administrative Rules and Regulations.


== Major donors ==
The top 5 donors to Palmer's 2008 campaign:

1. Bourbon Co Democratic Central Comm 	$1,000
2. Beachner Construction Co 	$1,000
3. Palmer, Ronald 	$1,000
4. Kansas Contractors Assoc 	$1,000
5. Kansas Medical Society 	$1,000


== References ==


== External links ==
Kansas Legislature - Shirley Palmer
Project Vote Smart profile
Kansas Votes profile
State Surge - Legislative and voting track record
Follow the Money campaign contributions:
2006, 2008

Momona is a small town on the Taieri Plain in New Zealand's South Island.
Momona School was established in 1899 and closed in 2004. 
The Henley Co-operative Dairy Company, established in nearby Henley, moved their cheese factory here, and was closed in the 1980s.
Momona is the location of Dunedin International Airport. With the establishment of the airport, an extra township was built for families of airport staff, its three streets being named after RNZAF airmen who received the Victoria Cross: James Allen Ward, Lloyd Trigg, and Leonard Henry Trent.
New Zealand's lowest point, at 2 metres (6.6 ft) below sea level, is located on Kirk's Drain Road just to the southwest of Momona. The road was named after John Kirk, a nearby resident, who was the grandfather of the Rt. Hon. Norman Kirk, Prime Minister of New Zealand from 1972 to 1974.


== Demographics ==
Momona statistical area, which also includes Outram and Allanton, covers 217.61 km2 (84.02 sq mi) and had an estimated population of 2,600 as of June 2025, with a population density of 11.9 people per km2.

The statistical area had a population of 2,322 at the 2018 New Zealand census, an increase of 117 people (5.3%) since the 2013 census, and an increase of 192 people (9.0%) since the 2006 census. There were 897 households, comprising 1,209 males and 1,113 females, giving a sex ratio of 1.09 males per female. The median age was 43.0 years (compared with 37.4 years nationally), with 498 people (21.4%) aged under 15 years, 330 (14.2%) aged 15 to 29, 1,161 (50.0%) aged 30 to 64, and 336 (14.5%) aged 65 or older.
Ethnicities were 96.3% European/Pākehā, 8.1% Māori, 0.1% Pasifika, 1.6% Asian, and 1.3% other ethnicities. People may identify with more than one ethnicity.
The percentage of people born overseas was 9.9, compared with 27.1% nationally.
Although some people chose not to answer the census's question about religious affiliation, 60.5% had no religion, 32.0% were Christian, 0.4% were Buddhist and 0.9% had other religions.
Of those at least 15 years old, 318 (17.4%) people had a bachelor's or higher degree, and 378 (20.7%) people had no formal qualifications. The median income was $38,000, compared with $31,800 nationally. 345 people (18.9%) earned over $70,000 compared to 17.2% nationally. The employment status of those at least 15 was that 1,050 (57.6%) people were employed full-time, 318 (17.4%) were part-time, and 39 (2.1%) were unemployed.


== References ==

Nowhere to Hide is a 1987 thriller film directed by Mario Azzopardi. It stars Amy Madigan, Daniel Hugh Kelly and Robin MacEachern, as a family on the run from corrupt Marine officers. It also stars Michael Ironside, John Colicos, Maury Chaykin, and Clark Johnson.


== Plot ==

When two newly delivered helicopters crash mysteriously, Marine officer Major Rob Cutter (Daniel Hugh Kelly) decides to conduct his own investigation, since the men killed in the helicopter crashes were members of his squadron. He later discovers that the newly delivered helicopters crashed because of a defective C-ring that broke due to having been made of a less expensive, and much weaker, alloy. Rob grounds all the newly delivered helicopters that have the faulty C-ring, and decides to go public with this, much to the objection of his friend and fellow marine Sergeant Mike Watson (Chuck Shamata), who reluctantly tells someone that Rob found the problem.
At home, Rob is killed by two hitmen, one of them Marchais (Maury Chaykin), in front of Rob's son Johnny (Robin MacEachern). As Rob's wife Barbara (Amy Madigan), a former marine, was spotted by Marchais, she hides in the garage. She burns Marchais' face with a blowtorch as he and his partner get away. She then gets upstairs to find Rob dead and Johnny traumatized by his father's death, having become mute as a result of post traumatic stress disorder. Before Rob was killed, Johnny unintentionally hid the broken C-ring fragment in his transformer bot toy.
Barbara is questioned by local police, and they find top-secret documents which the men who killed Rob planted in the vase in the main bedroom, framing him. The military takes over the investigation and Rob's commanding officer, General Clay Howard (John Colicos) bails Barbara out of the questioning. Rob's squadron gives her the American flag out of respect, since Rob didn't receive a military funeral, due to being investigated for having top-secret documents in his possession.
Persistent journalist Mark Halstead (Clark Johnson), who has been investigating the helicopter crashes and suspects a cover-up, confronts Watson about the cover-up. Watson, guilt-ridden over having a hand in Rob's death, decides to talk to Halstead the next day about the cover-up. But he is watched by Marchais and his partner, who kill Watson by forcing his car to crash. Halstead comes to the cemetery where Rob is buried, and informs Barbara about Watson's death, and that there is a cover-up involving the helicopter crashes within Rob's death, the military, and the manufacturing company who delivered the choppers. Before he can go on further, Halstead is shot and killed by Marchais, and Barbara is framed for killing him. She is able to get away after a lengthy car chase.
Barbara calls General Howard for help, only to discover that he is the one who ordered Rob killed, because Halstead told her that Howard refused to see him, and the general mistakenly lied that he knew about Watson's death through Halstead. General Howard did not want Rob to go public with the defective part, since Howard authorized the delivery of the helicopters with the defective C-ring from the manufacturing company. While hiding in the motel, Barbara spots Marchais and his partner planting a bomb in her car. Just after she put Johnny in her car, Barbara moves the bomb out of her car and plants it in the car the hitmen are using. Johnny runs back to the motel to get the robotic toy that carries the C-ring. Barbara rushes to get Johnny and get back to the car. Marchais detonates the device, unknowingly killing himself and his partner, as Barbara makes her getaway.
With no one to turn to for help, Barbara turns to Rob's Vietnam War veteran-brother Ben (Michael Ironside), a reclusive survivalist living in an isolated wilderness with his two Dobermans, to hide her and Johnny in his cabin. Johnny finds a military tracking device in the rim of their car, but can't tell anyone since he is still traumatized by Rob's death. Ben learns about Rob's death, and evaluates Johnny psychologically, knowing that he'll get over Rob's death soon. Barbara learns that Ben has become a recluse, because his son and his son's mother were killed in friendly fire in the Vietnam War, and he never talked to any of his squadron who did that bombing, except Rob who was his only trusted friend.
Barbara finds the C-ring fragment in Johnny's robotic toy, and Ben identifies that it was defective. Then the Dobermans spot Howard's men and Ben hides Johnny in the crawlspace. Barbara and Ben are able to kill some of Howard's men, but Ben is wounded in the shootout and one of his pet Dobermans is killed. Barbara is hit in the shoulder, but is able hit the flammable tank to kill some of the men, before being buried by a pile of logs. Ben gets Johnny out of the crawlspace, but a corrupt marine mortally wounds Ben and is about to get Johnny. Ben uses the last of his strength to save Johnny before dying. Johnny screams out for his mother, before being taken by Howard's remaining men.
Barbara gets out of the pile of logs and finds Ben dead and Johnny kidnapped. She takes Ben's old truck and goes to the bar where Rob's squad-mates are. She shows them the broken C-ring and informs them about the motive behind Rob's death and Howard's deceit.
Barbara goes to the abandoned warehouse where General Howard, the manufacturing company bigwigs William Devlin (Garrick Hogan) and Nick Thomas (Andrew Johnston) and their men are, handing them the C-ring part in exchange for Johnny. When Howard asks who else knew about the conspiracy, Barbara shows the corrupt general a wire she was wearing, meaning Rob's squad heard about his involvement in Rob's death, and delivering the helicopters with the faulty C-ring. Rob's squadron surrounds the warehouse, but General Howard gets into a car and makes his getaway---while running over Devlin as he drives, killing him while Rob's squad detains everyone else. Barbara, a skilled helicopter pilot, jumps into a helicopter and pursues Howard on her own, as one of Rob's men stays with Johnny. She follows General Howard to a quarry where he drives onto a cliff-side dirt road.  Barbara machine guns the car, causing it to fly off the cliff. As the car is soaring over the cliff, she shoots a missile into the car resulting in a spectacular explosion and crash---thereby killing General Howard and avenging the deaths of Rob and Ben.
Barbara and Johnny clear out Ben's cabin, and take Ben's surviving Doberman with them as they head home.


== Cast ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Nowhere to Hide at IMDb
Nowhere to Hide at Rotten Tomatoes

Fortunato Navarro Herrera (5 April 1872 – 11 July 1947) was a Chilean merchant, farmer and politician. A member of the Agrarian Party, Navarro served as a deputy representing the 21st Departmental Grouping during the 1933–1937 legislative period.


== Biography ==
Navarro Herrera was born in Puerto Saavedra to José Mercedes Navarro Pineda and María Gregoria Herrera Burgos. He pursued his studies in Puerto Saavedra and later in Valparaíso.
He initially devoted himself to commercial activities in the import sector until 1910, after which he worked as a stockbroker, remaining in financial activities until 1924.
He later turned to agriculture, exploiting the family estate El Peral in Puerto Saavedra.


== Political career ==
A member of the Agrarian Party, Navarro Herrera was elected mayor of the Municipality of Saavedra in 1930.
In the 1932 parliamentary elections, he was elected Deputy for the 21st Departmental Grouping, corresponding to the departments of Nueva Imperial, Temuco and Villarrica, for the 1933–1937 legislative period. During his term, he served on the Standing Committee on Labour and Social Legislation and was elected Second Vice President of the Chamber of Deputies, a position he held between 10 July 1933 and 22 May 1934.
In 1938, he ran in a by-election to fill the parliamentary seat vacated by Rudecindo Ortega Mason, who had been appointed Minister of Education by President Pedro Aguirre Cerda. Navarro Herrera obtained 6,141 votes, losing to the Radical Party candidate Armando Holzapfel, who assumed office on 10 March 1939.
Beyond politics, he was a member of the Agricultural Development Society of Temuco, the Temuco Club, the Club de la Unión, and the National Society of Agriculture.


== Personal life ==
On 3 June 1907, Navarro married Guillermina Barahona Soriano, a teacher. Navarro and Barahona had two daughters including the poet and librarian Eliana Navarro.
Navarro was the father-in-law of José Miguel Vicuña, a poet, writer and librarian, and the grandfather of Ana María Vicuña, a philosopher and professor, and Leonora Vicuña, a photographer, film editor and educator.
On 11 July 1947 Navarro died in Santiago, aged 75. 


== References ==


== External links ==
BCN Profile

Mark Odom Hatfield (July 12, 1922 – August 7, 2011) was an American politician and educator from the state of Oregon. A moderate Republican, he served eight years as the 29th governor of Oregon, followed by 30 years as one of its United States senators, including time as chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee. A native Oregonian, he served in the United States Navy in the Pacific Theater during World War II after graduating from Willamette University. After the war he earned a graduate degree from Stanford University before returning to Oregon and Willamette as a professor.
While still teaching, Hatfield served in both houses of the Oregon Legislative Assembly. He won election to the Oregon Secretary of State's office at the age of 34 and two years later was elected as the 29th Governor of Oregon. He was the youngest person to serve in either of those offices, and served two terms as governor before election to the United States Senate. In the Senate he served for thirty years, the longest tenure of any Senator from Oregon. At the time of his retirement, he was seventh most senior Senator and the second most senior Republican. In 1968, he was considered a candidate to be Richard Nixon's running mate for the Republican Party presidential ticket.
Hatfield served as Chairman of the Senate Committee on Appropriations on two occasions. With this role, he was able to direct funding to Oregon and research-related projects. Numerous Oregon institutions, buildings and facilities are named in his honor, including the Mark O. Hatfield United States Courthouse in Portland, the Mark O. Hatfield Library at Willamette University (his alma mater), the Hatfield Government Center light-rail station in Hillsboro, the Mark O. Hatfield School of Government in the College of Urban and Public Affairs at Portland State University, and the Hatfield Marine Science Center in Newport. Outside of Oregon, a research center at the National Institutes of Health was named after him for his support of medical research while in the Senate. Hatfield died in Portland on August 7, 2011, after a long illness.


== Early life ==
Hatfield was born in Dallas, Oregon, on July 12, 1922, the only child of Dovie E. (Odom) Hatfield, a schoolteacher, and Charles Dolen Hatfield, a blacksmith for the Southern Pacific Railroad. Hatfield's father was from California and his mother from Tennessee. When he was five years old, his maternal grandmother took over the household while his mother, Dovie attended Oregon State College and graduated with a teaching degree after four years. Dovie taught school in Dallas for two years before the family moved to Salem, where she taught junior high school.
Encouraged by his mother, Hatfield's first experience with politics came at the age of 10, when he campaigned in his neighborhood for President Herbert Hoover's 1932 re-election campaign. In the late 1930s Hatfield worked as a tour guide at the new Oregon State Capitol Building in Salem, using his key to enter the governor's office, where he sat in the governor's chair.
On June 10, 1940, the 17-year-old Hatfield, driving his mother's car, struck and killed a pedestrian, 6-year-old Alice Marie Lane, as she crossed the street to deliver milk to her neighbors. Hatfield was not held criminally liable for the crash, but was found civilly liable to the family. The case made its way to the Oregon Supreme Court in 1943, with the court affirming the trial court's decision.
Hatfield graduated from Salem High School in 1940 and then enrolled at Willamette University, also in Salem. While attending Willamette, Hatfield became a brother of Alpha Phi Omega and Kappa Gamma Rho, which he later helped become a chapter of Beta Theta Pi. (In 1964, Hatfield was elected to the National position of Third Vice President of Alpha Phi Omega). In college he also worked part-time for then Oregon Secretary of State Earl Snell, where he learned how to build a political base by sending out messages to potential voters after reading about life changes posted in newspapers, such as deaths and graduations. He also sketched out a political career path beginning with the state legislature and culminating in a spot in the United States Senate, with a blank for any position beyond the Senate. Hatfield graduated from Willamette in 1943 with a Bachelor of Arts degree after three years at the school. While at the school he lost his only election, for student body president.
Hatfield joined the U.S. Navy after graduation, taking part in the World War II battles at Iwo Jima and Okinawa as a landing craft officer where he witnessed the carnage of the war. A lieutenant, he also witnessed the effects of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, as one of the first Americans to see the ruins of the city (later, as Senator, Hatfield opposed arms proliferation and the Vietnam War). After Japan, he served in French Indochina, where he witnessed firsthand the wealth divide between the peasant Vietnamese and the colonial French bourgeoisie. After his discharge as a Lieutenant (junior grade), he spent one year at Willamette's law school, but decided politics or teaching better suited him.
Hatfield then enrolled at Stanford University, where he obtained a master's degree in political science in 1948. He returned to Salem and Willamette after Stanford and began working as an assistant professor in political science. During his tenure as professor, he built a political base by offering himself as a public speaker and giving speeches at any forum where he could get an invitation.


== Political career ==
Mark Hatfield's career in public office spanned five decades as he held office in both the legislative and executive branches of Oregon's state government, including two terms as governor. On the national stage he became the longest serving U.S. Senator from Oregon and a candidate for the Republican vice presidential nomination in 1968. In the U.S. Senate he would twice serve as chairman of the Appropriations Committee, and twice be investigated for possible ethics violations.


=== Oregon ===

In 1950 while teaching political science and serving as dean of students at Willamette, Hatfield began his political career by winning election to the Oregon House of Representatives as a Republican. He defeated six others for the seat at a time when state assembly elections were still determined by county-wide votes. He served for two terms representing Marion County and Salem in the lower chamber of the Oregon Legislative Assembly. At the time he was the youngest legislator in Oregon and still lived at his parents' home. Hatfield would teach early-morning classes and then walk across the street to the Capitol to legislate.
In 1952 he won re-election to his seat in the Oregon House. He also received national attention for his early support for coaxing Dwight D. Eisenhower to run for President of the United States as a Republican. This earned him a spot as a delegate at the Republican National Convention that year.
While in college he saw firsthand the discrimination against African Americans in Salem when he was tasked by his fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega, after a dinner with driving their guest, black artist Paul Robeson back to Portland, as African Americans were prohibited from staying in hotels in Salem. In 1953, he introduced and passed legislation in the House that prohibited discrimination based on race in public accommodations before federal legislation and court decisions did so on a national level. In 1954, Hatfield ran and won a seat in the Oregon State Senate representing Marion County. While in the legislature, he continued to apply the grassroots strategy he learned from Earl Snell, but expanded it to cover the entire state to increase his political base.

After serving in the state senate, he became the youngest secretary of state in Oregon history after winning election in 1956 at age 34. Hatfield defeated fellow state senator Monroe Sweetland for the office, receiving 51.3% of the vote in the November general election. He took office on January 7, 1957, and remained until he resigned on January 12, 1959.
For his first run for Governor of Oregon in 1958, the Republican Party opposed his candidacy going into the primary election. The large political base he had cultivated allowed him to win the party's primary despite the party's opposition. In the primary he defeated Oregon State Treasurer Sig Unander for the Republican nomination. In July 1958, after the primary election, Hatfield married Antoinette Kuzmanich, a counselor at Portland State College (now Portland State University). The marriage during the campaign drew some attention as the Catholic Kuzmanich converted to Hatfield's Baptist religion. They had four children: Elizabeth, Mark Jr., Theresa and Charles ("Visko"). He continued his campaign for the governor's office after the wedding, but avoided most public appearances with fellow Republican candidates for office and did not mention them during his campaign, despite requests by other Republicans for joint appearances.
In the November general election Hatfield faced Democratic incumbent Robert D. Holmes. In the final days of the campaign U.S. Senator Wayne Morse, a Democrat, implied Hatfield lied in his trial regarding the deadly car accident when he was 17. This tactic backfired as the press denounced the comments, as did Holmes and other Democrats. Hatfield defeated Holmes in a landslide, winning 55.3% of the vote in the election. That same election saw the Democratic Party gain a majority in both chambers of the state legislature for the first time since 1878. Holmes' defeat was attributed in part to the image and charisma portrayed by Hatfield and in part due to the campaign issues such as the declining economy, increased taxation, capital punishment, labor, and education. After the election, Holmes attempted to appoint David O'Hara as Secretary of State to replace Hatfield, who would have to resign to become governor. Hatfield appointed Howell Appling, Jr. to the office, and O'Hara challenged the appointment in state court. The Oregon Supreme Court ruled in favor of Hatfield on the constitutional issue, with the appointment of Appling confirmed. He was the youngest governor in the history of Oregon at that point in time at the age of 36.
In 1962 Hatfield had been considered a possible candidate to run against Morse for his Senate seat, but Hatfield instead ran for re-election. He faced Oregon Attorney General Robert Y. Thornton in the general election, winning with 345,497 votes to Thornton's 265,359. He became the state's first two-term governor in the 20th century when he was re-elected in 1962, and later became only the second governor up to that point in the state's history to serve two full-terms.

Hatfield gave the keynote speech at the 1964 Republican National Convention in San Francisco that nominated Barry Goldwater and served as temporary chairman of the party during the convention. He advocated a moderate approach for the party and opposed the extreme conservatism associated with Goldwater and his supporters. He also was the only governor to vote against a resolution by the National Governors' Conference supporting the Johnson Administration's policy on the Vietnam War, as Hatfield opposed the war, but pledged "unqualified and complete support" for the troops. He preferred the use of economic sanctions to end the war.
Hatfield was a popular Governor who supported Oregon's traditional industries of timber and agriculture, but felt that in the postwar era expansion of industry and funding for transportation and education needed to be priorities. While governor he worked to begin the diversification of the state's economy, such as recruiting industrial development and holding trade missions. As part of the initiative, he helped to found the Oregon Graduate Center in 1963 in what became the Silicon Forest in Washington County. A graduate level school in the Portland area (Portland State was still a college with no graduate programs at this time) was seen by business leaders as essential to attracting new industries and by Tektronix as needed to retain highly skilled workers. In lieu of the standard portrait for former governors, Hatfield is represented by a marble bust at the Oregon State Capitol.


=== National ===

Limited to two terms as governor, Hatfield announced his candidacy in the 1966 U.S. Senate election for the seat vacated by the retiring Maurine Neuberger. During the Vietnam War, and during an election year, he was one of the only people to vote against a resolution by a governors' conference that expressed support for the U.S. involvement in the war in 1966. At that time the war was supported by 75 percent of the public, and was also supported by Hatfield's opponent in the November election. He won the primary election with 178,782 votes compared to a combined 56,760 votes for three opponents. Hatfield then defeated Democratic Congressman Robert Duncan in the election. In order to finish his term as governor, which ended on January 9, 1967, he delayed taking his oath of office in the Senate until January 10 instead of the usual January 3.

Hatfield's re-election victory for governor in 1962 and successful Senate campaign in 1966 made him something of a national figure. In 1968, Hatfield was on Richard Nixon's short list for vice president, and received the strong backing of his friend, the Rev. Billy Graham. Hatfield was considered too liberal by many conservatives and Southern moderates, and Nixon chose the more centrist Maryland Governor Spiro Agnew. Hatfield would later find himself at odds with Nixon over Vietnam and other issues, including a threat by Hatfield to reduce funding for the White House's legal department in 1973 during the Watergate Scandal, after Nixon had failed to use funds appropriated for renovating dams on the Columbia River.
On December 14, 1967, Hatfield appeared on William F. Buckley's talk show Firing Line. On the show, Hatfield and Buckley primarily discussed Senator Barry Goldwater's unsuccessful bid for the presidency in the 1964 election. Hatfield clarified that he believed it was "Goldwater's basic approach to problems," which "tended to evoke fear," that was rejected by many Americans in the election, rather than "Senator Goldwater as a person." In addition, Buckley criticized the system of the institution of a party convention which existed at the time, stating that "So, even if you can assume a situation in which John won all the presidential primaries, but James is the favorite of the Republican Party qua institution, then James is going to get nominated." Hatfield argued that the system of presidential primaries as a whole should be turned into a system of a simple "national primary." Buckley eventually prompted Hatfield to expand upon his ideal system of presidential nominations by asking, "If, in fact, you invite four candidates to participate in a national primary, would you then understand that the Convention would meet merely to ratify the process, or would that be an advisory judgment by the people," to which the Senator replied, "I would like to see this as the final decision by the people themselves. I would like to see this thing move toward that objective. It may not be achieved overnight."
As a senator Hatfield took positions that made him hard to classify politically. In the Summer of 1969, he had told Murray Rothbard that he had "committed himself to the cause of libertarianism." Rothbard remarked concerning Hatfield, "obviously his voting record is not particularly libertarian – it's very good on foreign policy and the draft, but it's not too great on other things", adding that "in the abstract, at least, he is very favorable to libertarianism." Hatfield was opposed to abortion and the death penalty, though as governor he chose not to commute the sentence of a convicted murderer and allowed that execution to go forward. As a prominent evangelical Christian, he opposed government-sponsored school prayer and supported civil rights for minorities. Hatfield voted in favor of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 and the Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987, as well as to override President Reagan's veto, for the nomination of Thurgood Marshall to the Supreme Court and the bill establishing Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a federal holiday. Hatfield voted against the Supreme Court nominations of Clement Haynsworth and George Harrold Carswell, but voted in favor of the nominations of William Rehnquist, Robert Bork and Clarence Thomas. Hatfield was the only Senator who voted for both Thurgood Marshall and Clarence Thomas. Regarding political solutions, Hatfield believed that they were found in the center.

In 1970, with Senator George McGovern (D-South Dakota), he co-sponsored the McGovern-Hatfield Amendment, which called for a complete withdrawal of U.S. troops from Vietnam. In 1973 he explained to the Eugene Register-Guard his "Neighborhood Government Act," which he repeatedly introduced in Congress. It would have permitted Americans to divert their personal federal tax money from Washington to their local community. He explained that his long-term goal was to have all social services provided at the neighborhood level.
Hatfield appeared alongside Frank Church, Charles Goodell, Harold Hughes, and George McGovern on a bipartisan broadcast concerning the Vietnam War on May 12, 1970. The broadcast specifically concerned the McGovern-Hatfield Amendment, and was primarily for the purpose of promoting it. The Amendment had not yet reached the Senate, where it eventually failed on September 1 of the same year. The Senators primarily discussed issues of the Constitution in relation to the war, as Senator McGovern began with, "There is no way under the Constitution by which the Congress of the United States could act either to continue this war or to end it, except by a decision on whether we will appropriate funds to finance the war."

In 1981, Hatfield served as the chairman of the Congressional Joint Committee on Presidential Inaugurations, overseeing the first inauguration of Ronald Reagan in January of that year.
On December 2, 1981, Hatfield was one of four senators to vote against an amendment to President Reagan's MX missiles proposal that would divert the silo system by $334 million as well as earmark further research for other methods that would allow giant missiles to be based. The vote was seen as a rebuff of the Reagan administration.
In the 1980s, Hatfield co-sponsored nuclear freeze legislation with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, as well as co-authoring a book on the topic. He also advocated for the closure of the N-Reactor at the Hanford Nuclear Site in the 1980s, though he was a supporter of nuclear fusion programs. The N-Reactor was used for producing weapons grade plutonium while producing electricity.
Hatfield frequently broke with his party on issues of national defense and foreign policy in support for non-interventionism, such as military spending and the ban on travel to Cuba, while often siding with them on environmental and conservation issues. Senator Hatfield supported increased logging on federal lands. He was the lone Republican to vote against the 1981 fiscal year's appropriations bill for the Department of Defense. He was rated as the sixth most respected senator in a 1987 survey by fellow senators. In 1991, Hatfield voted against authorizing military action against Iraq in the Gulf War, one of only two members of his party to do so in the Senate. Most famously, in 1995, Hatfield was the deciding vote against a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution. Hatfield compared the balanced budget amendment to President Reagan's tax cuts, claiming that both were examples of "imagery versus substance".


==== Scandal and rebukes ====
Hatfield was sometimes called "Saint Mark" because of his squeaky-clean reputation, but in 1984 columnist Jack Anderson revealed that Hatfield's wife Antoinette, a Washington, D.C., real estate lawyer, had been paid $55,000 by Greek arms dealer Basil Tsakos in connection with a real estate purchase. Tsakos had been lobbying Hatfield, then Appropriations Committee chairman, to support a trans-Africa oil pipeline megaproject. The Hatfields apologized and donated $55,000 to a Portland hospital. The Senate Ethics Committee investigated and decided to take no action. However, after Hatfield's death, an FBI report released under Freedom of Information law revealed that Tsakos had been indicted for bribery and had offered to plead guilty to lesser charges (though this never occurred), and that the Department of Justice had decided against charging Hatfield in the case.
In 1991, it was also revealed that Hatfield had failed to report a number of expensive gifts from the president of the University of South Carolina, James B. Holderman. Again, he apologized. But the Senate Ethics Committee rebuked Hatfield for the latter act.
Hatfield received another rebuke from the Senate after the Ethics Committee investigated two gifts that he had received in the form of forgiven loans from a former congressman and a California businessman.

His final re-election campaign came in 1990 against businessman Harry Lonsdale. Lonsdale aggressively went after Hatfield with television attack ads that attacked Hatfield as out of touch on issues such as abortion and timber management and accused the incumbent of being too closely allied with special interest groups in Washington. Lonsdale's tactics moved him even with, and then ahead of Hatfield in some polls. Hatfield, who had typically stayed above the fray of negative campaigning, responded in kind with attack ads of his own. He raised $1 million in a single month after trailing Lonsdale in the polls before the November election. He defeated the Democrat with 590,095 (53.7 percent) votes to 507,743 (46.2 percent) votes.


==== Length of service ====
In 1993, he became the longest-serving senator from Oregon, surpassing the record of 9,726 days in office previously held by Charles McNary. In 1995, Hatfield was the only Republican in the Senate to vote against the proposed balanced budget amendment, and was the deciding vote that prevented the passage of the bill. In 1996 the National Historical Publications and Records Commission, a group he served on previously, granted him their Distinguished Service Award.
Hatfield retired in 1996, having never lost an election in 46 years and 11 campaigns as an elected official. During his tenure he gained billions of dollars in the form of federal appropriations for projects in Oregon. This included funding for transportation projects, environmental protection of wilderness areas and scenic rivers, facilities for research on AIDS, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease and health care facilities.


== Later years and legacy ==

After retiring from political office, Hatfield returned to Oregon, joining the faculty of George Fox University. In 2006, he was named Herbert Hoover Emeritus Distinguished Professor of Politics. Hatfield also taught at the Hatfield School of Government at Portland State University, named in his honor, Willamette University, and Lewis & Clark College. From February 2000 to May 2008, he served on the board of directors for Oregon Health & Science University.
In July 1999, Hatfield and his wife were passengers on a tour bus when it collided with a car. The experience led them to advocate for seat belts to be required on buses.
In November 2010, Hatfield was admitted to the Mark O. Hatfield Clinical Research Center at the National Institutes of Health. He died at a care facility in Portland on August 7, 2011, after what was revealed to be several years of illness. A specific cause of death was not immediately given.

Numerous buildings, organizations, awards, and outdoor areas have been named in honor of Hatfield. These include:

The Mark O. Hatfield Library at Willamette University
Awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws (LL.D.) degree from Whittier College in 1963.
Awarded an honorary degree from Linfield College in 1971.
Hatfield Marine Science Center at Oregon State University
Hatfield School of Government at Portland State University
The Mark O. Hatfield Clinical Research Center at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland
Mark O. Hatfield Research Center at Oregon Health & Science University (OHSU)
The Mark O. Hatfield Wilderness
Mark O. Hatfield Institute for International Understanding at Southwestern Oregon Community College
Hatfield Government Center station at the western terminus of the MAX Blue Line light rail in Hillsboro
Mark O. Hatfield United States Courthouse in Portland
The Mark Hatfield trailhead at the western end of the Historic Columbia River Highway State Trail in the Columbia River Gorge;
The Mark Hatfield Award for clinical research in Alzheimer's disease
The Mark O. Hatfield Leadership Award presented by the Council for Christian Colleges and Universities
The Mark O. Hatfield Distinguished Historians Forum, speaker series presented by the Oregon Historical Society.
His papers and book collection are stored in the Willamette University Archives and Special Collections, inside the Mark O. Hatfield Library. Senator Hatfield merited his own chapter in Tom Brokaw's The Greatest Generation.
In 2014, a 90-minute documentary about Hatfield's life and career called The Gentleman of the Senate: Oregon's Mark Hatfield was released.


== Works authored ==
A selection of items Hatfield authored or contributed to:


=== Author ===
Not Quite So Simple (1968), OCLC 439212
Conflict and Conscience (1971), ISBN 0-87680-811-9
Between a Rock and a Hard Place (1976), ISBN 0-87680-427-X
Against the Grain: Reflections of a Rebel Republican (2000), ISBN 1-883991-36-6


=== Contributor ===
Amnesty?: The Unsettled Question of Vietnam (1973), ISBN 0-8467-0000-X
Social Power and Political Freedom (1980), ISBN 0-87558-093-9 (introduction)
Freeze! How You Can Help Prevent Nuclear War (1982), ISBN 0-553-14077-9 (with Edward Kennedy)
Real Christianity (1982), ISBN 1-55661-832-8 (introduction)
What About the Russians: A Christian Approach to US-Soviet Conflict (1984), ISBN 0-87178-751-2
Vice Presidents of the United States: 1789-1993 (1997), ISBN 0-614-31201-9 (editor)


== See also ==
List of federal political scandals in the United States


== References ==


== External links ==

Hatfield tribute page from Willamette University
Hatfield Records from the Oregon State Archives
Mark O. Hatfield (1922–2011) from the Oregon Historical Society
Hatfield voting record from the Washington Post
Hatfield retrospective from George Fox University
Hatfield Speech : Peace Through Strength is a Fallacy US Congressional Record August 2, 1989
Appearances on C-SPAN

Adil Ray  (Punjabi: عادل رے, born 26 April 1974) is a British actor, comedian and radio/television presenter. Ray is best known as the creator, co-writer and star of the long-running BBC One scripted comedy series Citizen Khan (2012–2016), and as a presenter on ITV's Good Morning Britain and on various BBC radio stations. He played the role of Sadiq Nawaz in the Channel 4 drama series Ackley Bridge, and also had major roles in Channel 5 drama series The Inheritance, ITV period drama series Beecham House, and in feature films Blithe Sprit, Arthur's Whisky, and Picture This. Since 2021, he has presented the revival of the British game show Lingo.


== Early life ==
Ray was born in Birmingham, England, to a Punjabi Muslim father from Lahore, and an Indo-Kenyan mother. He was brought up in the suburb of Yardley. Ray's father Abdul worked as a bus driver for almost forty years. His mother worked for the Immigration Appeals Department in the Civil Service and was of Buganda and Kenyan Asian ancestry.
Ray attended Yardley Junior and Infant School and Handsworth Grammar School, his first day being the day after the Handsworth Riots in 1985. Ray was a keen cricketer and represented Birmingham and District Premier League side West Bromwich Dartmouth during the late-1980s and early-1990s. Ray graduated from the University of Huddersfield with a 2:1 BA (Hons) in Marketing in 1997.


== Career ==
Ray began his career as a radio host on a pirate radio station in Huddersfield while studying at the University of Huddersfield, and DJing at the university venue Eden (1992). Later, during his placement year, he got a job with a new small Asian radio station in Birmingham, where he spent the first half of the year, before moving on to Choice FM (1995). In 1997, Ray landed a spot with Galaxy 105. He then joined Century Radio in Manchester, Radio Aire Leeds and Ministry of Sound Radio.


=== BBC ===
Ray joined the BBC Asian Network in 2002 to present the late-night Adil Ray Show. In May 2006, Ray took over the drive time afternoon slot, and from January 2009 he presented the station's Breakfast Show from 7:00am each weekday. In 2008, The Adil Ray Show won the best radio show category at the UK Asian Music Awards.
Ray has been a regular on BBC Radio 5 Live presenting the late night show, the Football and Cricket 606 phone ins, Victoria Derbyshire, Weekend Breakfast and Fighting Talk. Ray has also fronted documentaries for BBC Radio 4, including Picturing Britain and Towering Ambition. He has also appeared in the award-winning BBC Asian Network radio soap, Silver Street.
He also presented the British Asian Arts and Lifestyle show Desi DNA on BBC Two, and hosted the BBC Four programme Tales from Europe where he explored the 24-hour lifestyle in Madrid. In 2007, Ray presented the Royal Television Society award-nominated show Is it Cos I Is Black? for BBC Three where he looked at the issue of political correctness. He has also filmed a documentaries strand for BBC Two called Explore, in which he reported from Argentina and Turkey. In 2010 he appeared in the BBC Two comedy show Bellamy's People, playing characters including self-appointed "community leader" Mr Khan and Birmingham "Muslim DJ" MC Raa.
In 2010, Ray reprised his role as Mr. Khan to feature in his own web series for BBC Comedy to cover the UK general election. Mr. Khan returned later in the year with a follow-up BBC Comedy web series about the cricket to coincide with the Pakistan national team's visit to England that year.
In the summer of 2010, Ray joined BBC Radio 5 Live as part of their cricket coverage, travelling to Sri Lanka and Bangladesh to cover the 2011 Cricket World Cup. He can often be heard presenting the 5 Live late-night show. Ray continues to make documentaries for BBC Radio 4 including The Real Mr. Khan, a documentary looking into the role of community leaders. Ray also tackled the issue of sex and grooming in the British Pakistani community in a BBC Radio 4 documentary entitled The Sex Lives of British Pakistanis that was broadcast on 4 July 2011, as well as a highly acclaimed BBC Three documentary in December 2011 – Exposed: Groomed For Sex.
Ray continued his venture into comedy including the radio pilot Sparkhill Sound that broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 12 May 2011. A community radio station set in Birmingham. Ray was both writer and performer alongside Anil Gupta (writer), Gary Pillai, and Vineeta Rishi (cast).
In 2015, Ray guest presented three episodes of The One Show alongside Alex Jones.
In 2019, Ray hosted S58E05 of Have I Got News For You, appearing alongside team captains Paul Merton and Ian Hislop, and panellists Ivo Graham and Helen Lewis. Ray also hosted S60E02 of Have I Got A Bit More News For You in 2020, alongside Merton and Hislop, with guests Kiri Pritchard-McLean and Nicky Morgan.


==== Citizen Khan ====

In October 2011, Ray performed the co-written comedy Citizen Khan at the BBC Salford Sitcom Showcase, centred on Ray's comedy creation Mr Khan and his long-suffering family. Commissioned as a BBC One primetime series, the Asian Muslim sitcom follows the trials and tribulations of big-hearted, loud-mouthed, tight-fisted, self-appointed community leader Mr Khan (Adil Ray) and his long-suffering family: wife Mrs Khan (Shobu Kapoor) and daughters Shazia (Maya Sondhi) and Alia (Bhavna Limbachia).
The six 30-minute episodes of Citizen Khan were commissioned by Danny Cohen, BBC One Controller, and Cheryl Taylor, Controller of Comedy Commissioning, and have been produced by BBC In-House Comedy. The executive producer was Mark Freeland, the producer was Paul Schlesinger (Twenty Twelve) and the director was Nick Wood (Fresh Meat, Not Going Out, Two Pints of Lager and a Packet of Crisps). Citizen Khan was written by Anil Gupta and Richard Pinto (The Kumars at No 42, Goodness Gracious Me) with Adil Ray. The series was renewed for four further series of six episodes plus a Christmas special each, ending on 23 December 2016.


=== ITV ===
In August 2018, Ray temporarily replaced Piers Morgan as a co-host on ITV's Good Morning Britain.
From February 2019, Ray has become the guest presenter for Good Morning Britain, appearing during the February, April and Summer Holidays.
In 2019, Ray played the role of Murad Beg in ITV's six-part historical drama series Beecham House. The series is set in 1795 in Delhi, India, and co-created, directed and produced by Gurinder Chadha.
In 2020, Ray was scheduled twice weekly during the summer holidays in July and August, covering for the main presenters during their summer break. During this time, Ray continued the show's coverage of the Coronavirus Pandemic, most often presenting on Thursdays with Charlotte Hawkins and Fridays with Ranvir Singh.
Ray portrayed Imran Khan in ITV's acclaimed 2021 mini-series Stephen. The series, written by Frank Cottrell Boyce and Joe Cottrell Boyce, was based on the book in Pursuit of the Truth by DCI Clive Driscoll, about the 1993 murder of Stephen Lawrence, and starred Steve Coogan in the role of DCI Clive Driscoll.
In 2021, Ray began presenting the revival of word-based quiz show Lingo, which premiered on New Year's Day.
In 2023, Ray was chosen to host US pilot episodes of the gameshow Lucky 13.


=== Film ===
In 2020, Ray starred as Mandeep Singh in supernatural comedy Blithe Spirit, alongside Dame Judi Dench, Isla Fischer, Dan Stevens, Leslie Mann and Emilia Clarke. The film, which was based on Noël Coward's 1941 stage farce, is the second feature film adaptation, after David Lean's 1945 version.
Ray starred as James in the 2024 Sky Original film Arthur's Whisky, led by Diane Keaton, Patricia Hodge and Lulu.
In 2025, Ray played Mukul in Amazon Prime Video's original romantic comedy Picture This, which starred Simone Ashley and Hero Fiennes Tiffin in the lead roles.


=== Smooth Radio ===
At the end of December 2024, Ray went back to his radio roots when he joined Smooth Radio as a guest presenter over the Christmas and New Year period. Following his guest presenting success, it was announced that from March 2025, Ray would host his own Saturday mid-morning show.


=== Film and television production ===
Ray is the co-founder and Creative Director of Cornered Tiger, a multi-genre, Birmingham-based production company. Ray and co-founder Debbie Manners launched Cornered Tiger in 2020, with the purpose of developing ideas with diversity at the very heart of its content, and telling new stories by new and emerging diverse talent. Cornered Tiger produced the 2023 documentary Is Cricket Racist? for Channel 4, which was nominated for a 2024 Royal Television Society (Midlands) Documentary award, as well as for Sports Documentary of the Year at the 2023 Broadcast Sport Awards. Cornered Tiger has several projects in development with major terrestrial television broadcasters and streaming platforms.


== Personal life ==
In January 2021, Ray stated he was single and had been for a long time, still looking for "the one". He is a keen cricket fan and supports his local team Warwickshire and the national team of Pakistan. He is also a fan of Aston Villa.


== Political views ==
On 5 November 2025, on social media platform X, he wrote: "Some say [Zohran] Mamdani may implement Sharia Law. He might. The heart of Sharia is social justice, welfare, fairness, charity and cohesion. Most Muslim countries operate a hybrid of Sharia & civil law, are slowly reforming and abandoning unethical practices despite the west’s portrayal." This drew widespread backlash on X and elsewhere. Two days later, Adil said: "To clarify. I am not actually suggesting Mamdani would implement 'sharia law'. But many of the issues he campaigned for are also some of the positive values of Sharia that Muslims try to live by. Something many of us would agree on."


== Charity and campaigns ==
Ray is involved in several charities and foundations: he is an ambassador for the Aston Villa Foundation, a registered charity that delivers the community and charity work of Aston Villa Football Club; a patron of Acorns Children's Hospice, a registered charity offering a network of palliative care and support to life-limited and life-threatened children and their families across the West Midlands region and part of South West England; and an ambassador for Pancreatic Cancer UK.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Ray spearheaded a campaign to encourage BAME groups across the UK to take the coronavirus vaccine. He created a series of video messages featuring famous persons and personalities from the Black Asian and Minority Ethnic groups, including Romesh Ranganathan, Meera Syal, David Olusoga, Moeen Ali, Beverley Knight, Denise Lewis, Sadiq Khan, Baroness Warsi and others. The videos, which aimed to inform and dispel false myths about the vaccine, were broadcast simultaneously across major terrestrial channels ITV, Channel 4, Channel 5 and Sky.


== Honours, awards and nominations ==
UK Asian Music Award  –  Best Radio Show (2008)
Royal Television Award Nomination – Is It Coz I Is Black (2007)
In January 2013, Ray was nominated for the Arts and Culture Awareness award at the British Muslim Awards.
Ray was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2016 Birthday Honours for services to broadcasting.
Since 2017, Ray has been on the board of the National Film and Television School.


== Credits ==


=== Television ===


=== Radio ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Adil Ray at IMDb
Adil Ray at British Comedy Guide

The 2017 McNeese State Cowboys football team represented McNeese State University as a member of the Southland Conference during the 2017 NCAA Division I FCS football season. Led by second-year head coach Lance Guidry, the Cowboys compiled an overall record of 9–2 with a mark of 7–2 in conference play, tying for third place in the Southland. McNeese State played home games at Cowboy Stadium in Lake Charles, Louisiana.


== Schedule ==

Sources


== Game summaries ==


=== @ Nicholls ===


=== Florida Tech ===


=== @ Alcorn State ===


=== Houston Baptist ===


=== @ Stephen F. Austin ===


=== @ Abilene Christian ===


=== Incarnate Word ===


=== @ Central Arkansas ===


=== Southeastern Louisiana ===


=== Northwestern State ===


=== @ Lamar ===


== Ranking movements ==


== References ==

Moses (Italian: Mosè [moˈzɛ]; c. 1513–1515) is a sculpture by the Italian High Renaissance artist Michelangelo, housed in the Basilica of San Pietro in Vincoli in Rome. Commissioned in 1505 by Pope Julius II for his tomb, it depicts the biblical figure Moses with horns on his head, based on a description in chapter 34 of Exodus in the Vulgate, the Latin translation of the Bible used at that time. Some scholars believe the use of horns may often hold an antisemitic implication, while others hold that it is simply a convention based on the translation error.
Sigmund Freud's interpretations of the statue from 1916 are particularly well-known. Some interpretations of the sculpture, including Freud's, note a demonic force, but also a beautiful figure, with emotional intensity as God's word is revealed. The delicacy of some of the features such as Moses' flowing hair are seen as a remarkable technical achievement, but Freud argues that Michelangelo goes beyond mere skills to provoke curiosity in the viewer, asking why Moses plays with his hair, and why he is presented with horns and flowing hair.


== Commissioning and history ==

Pope Julius II commissioned Michelangelo to build his tomb in 1505 and it was finally completed in 1545; Julius II died in 1513. The initial design by Michelangelo was massive and called for over 40 statues. The statue of Moses would have been placed on a tier about 3.74 meters high (12 ft 3 in), opposite a figure of St. Paul. In the final design, the statue of Moses sits in the center of the bottom tier.


== Description ==
Giorgio Vasari in the "Life of Michelangelo" wrote: "Michelangelo finished the Moses in marble, a statue of five braccia, unequaled by any modern or ancient work. Seated in a serious attitude, he rests with one arm on the tablets, and with the other holds his long glossy beard, the hairs, so difficult to render in sculpture, being so soft and downy that it seems as if the iron chisel must have become a brush. The beautiful face, like that of a saint and mighty prince, seems as one regards it to need the veil to cover it, so splendid and shining does it appear, and so well has the artist presented in the marble the divinity with which God had endowed that holy countenance. The draperies fall in graceful folds, the muscles of the arms and bones of the hands are of such beauty and perfection, as are the legs and knees, the feet were adorned with excellent shoes, that Moses may now be called the friend of God more than ever, since God has permitted his body to be prepared for the resurrection before the others by the hand of Michelangelo. The Jews still go every Saturday in troops to visit and adore it as a divine, not a human thing."
The English translation of Sigmund Freud's "The Moses of Michelangelo" also provides a basic description of the sculpture: "The Moses of Michelangelo is represented as seated; his body faces forward, his head with its mighty beard looks to the left, his right foot rests on the ground, and his left leg is raised so that only the toes touch the ground. His right arm links the Tables of the Law with something that looks like a book in the right palm of his hand with a portion of his beard; his left arm lies in his lap."
Jonathan Jones of the English newspaper, The Guardian, provides another description: "Moses's right hand protects the stone tablets bearing the Commandments; his left hand, veins throbbing, muscles tense, appears to be holding back from the violent action. When he came down from Mount Sinai, Moses found his people worshipping the Golden Calf – the false idol they had made. His anger defies the prison of stone, the limits of the sculptor's art. Few can resist the impression of a real mind, real emotions, in the figure that glares from his marble seat. Today, he glares at the tourists who mob the church of San Pietro in Vincoli, Rome. He outfaces them, just as he outfaced Sigmund Freud, who spent three weeks in 1913 trying to figure out the sculpture's emotional effect. Moses's vitality has made this work popular since the 16th century; according to Vasari, Rome's Jewish population adopted the statue as their own. Its power must have something to do with the rendition of things that should be impossible to depict in stone; most quirkily, the beard – so ropy and smoky, its coils gave fantastic, snaking life. But where others might astonish us with technique, Michelangelo goes beyond this, leading us from formal to intellectual surprise, making us wonder why Moses fondles his beard, why Michelangelo has used this river of hair – in combination with the horns that were a conventional attribute of Moses – to give him an inhuman, demonic aspect."


== Interpretations ==

In his 1914 essay entitled "The Moses of Michelangelo", Sigmund Freud associates the moment in the biblical narrative when Moses descends from the mountain the first time, carrying the tablets, and finds the Hebrew people worshipping the Golden Calf, as described in Exodus 32. Freud describes Moses in a complex psychological state:
We may now, I believe, permit ourselves to reap the fruits of our endeavors. We have seen how many of those who have felt the influence of this statue has been compelled to interpret it as representing Moses agitated by the spectacle of his people fallen from grace and dancing round an idol. But this interpretation had to be given up, for it made us expect to see him spring up in the next moment, break the Tables and accomplish the work of vengeance. Such a conception, however, would fail to harmonize with the design of making this figure, together with three (or five) more seated figures, a part of the tomb of Julius II. We may now take up again the abandoned interpretation, for the Moses we have reconstructed will neither leap up nor cast the Tables from him. What we see before us is not the inception of violent action but the remains of a movement that has already taken place. In his first transport of fury, Moses desired to act, to spring up and take vengeance and forget the Tables; but he has overcome the temptation, and he will now remain seated and still, in his frozen wrath and his pain mingled with contempt. Nor will he throw away the Tables so that they will break on the stones, for it is on their particular account that he has controlled his anger; it was to preserve them that he kept his passion in check. In giving way to his rage and indignation, he had to neglect the Tables, and the hand which upheld them was withdrawn. They began to slide down and were in danger of being broken. This brought him to himself. He remembered his mission and for its sake renounced an indulgence of his feelings. His hand returned and saved the unsupported Tables before they had fallen to the ground. In this attitude, he remained immobilized, and in this attitude, Michelangelo has portrayed him as the guardian of the tomb. As our eyes travel down it, the figure exhibits three distinct emotional strata. The lines of the face reflect the feelings which have won the ascendancy; the middle of the figure shows the traces of suppressed movement, and the foot still retains the attitude of the projected action. It is as though the controlling influence had proceeded downwards from above. No mention has been made so far of the left arm, and it seems to claim a share in our interpretation. The hand is laid in the lap in a mild gesture and holds as though in a caress the end of the flowing beard. It seems as if it is meant to counteract the violence with which the other hand had misused the beard a few moments ago.

Another view, put forward by Malcolm Macmillan and Peter J. Swales in their essay, "Observations from the Refuse-Heap: Freud, Michelangelo's Moses, and Psychoanalysis", relates the sculpture to the second set of Tables and the events mentioned in Exodus 33 and 34. They note that Moses is holding blank tablets, which God had commanded Moses to make in preparation for the second giving of the Law; they also note that Moses is depicted with "horns" which the biblical texts describe Moses as having only after he returned to the Hebrew people after the second giving of the Law. They argue that the statue depicts the moment when Moses sees God, as described in Exodus 33: "The incident in question is the most significant part of the Old Testament story of the exodus. Moses, full of doubt about his own standing and that of his people, takes the considerable risk of requesting—even demanding—that they are forgiven, that he be granted the Lord's grace, and that the Lord resume his place and lead them to the Promised Land. Emboldened by his success, he then risks all by asking that the Lord reveal his glory. Little imagination is required to sense the intense emotion with which such a Moses would have awaited the Lord: Will he come? Will he renew the Covenant? Will he reveal his glory?" They further argue that both Paul and Moses experienced God directly, an idea and pairing that were important to the Florentine Neo-Platonists, a group that the authors view both Michelangelo and Pope Julius II as being akin to. Finally, the authors state the key emotion on Moses' face is "awe at being face to face with the creator."


=== Tensions between Michelangelo and Julius II ===
Some interpretations, including those of Freud, refer to the tensions between Julius II, who commissioned his tomb from Michelangelo, and the artist. Freud claimed that Moses functions as a reproach both to Julius and the artist. Bertman notes that Julius II was frequently bearded, which had been unknown among Popes for a millennium, and that there may be physical similarities between the statue and Julius.


=== Shining face interpreted as horns ===

Following the iconographic convention common in Latin Christianity, the statue has two horns on its head. The depiction of a horned Moses stems from the description of Moses' face as "cornuta" ("horned") in the Latin Vulgate translation of the passage found at Exodus chapter 34, specifically verses 29, 30 and 35, in which Moses returns to the people after receiving the commandments for the second time. Some modern scholars contend that medieval theologians believed that Jerome had intended to express a glorification of Moses' face, by his use of the Latin word for "horned." and that this understanding that the original Hebrew was difficult and was not likely to mean "horns" persisted into and through the Renaissance.

 Classicist Stephen Bertman argues that Jerome is known himself to hold antisemitic views, and may have made the choice to associate Moses with "horns" consciously for theological reasons, expecting his readers to have in mind the New Testament association of horns with devils, wild beasts and the antichrist. In the Christian art of the Middle Ages depicting Moses with horns, this is sometimes done to depict him in glory, as a prophet and precursor of Jesus, but also in negative contexts, especially about Pauline contrasts between faith and law; the iconography was not clear-cut.
Art historian Ruth Mellinkoff argues that while the horns of Moses in origin were in no way associated with those of the Devil, the horns may nevertheless have developed a negative connotation with the development of anti-Jewish sentiment in the medieval and early modern period. Associations in images between Jews and devils were frequently made, and Jews were sometimes portrayed as having horns. Bertman views the statue itself as being a negative portrayal of Moses, building on these perceptions. The statue is argued by art historian Jennifer Koosed as being the culmination of the horned Moses tradition, mixing animal and human qualities to present the divine.
A book published in 2008 advanced a theory that the "horns" on Michelangelo's statue were never meant to be seen and that it is wrong to interpret them as horns: "[The statue] never had horns. The artist had planned Moses as a masterpiece not only of sculpture but also of special optical effects worthy of any Hollywood movie. For this reason, the piece had to be elevated and facing straight forward, looking in the direction of the front door of the basilica. The two protrusions on the head would have been invisible to the viewer looking up from the floor below – the only thing that would have been seen was the light reflected off of them." This interpretation has been contested.


== Casts and reproductions ==

In 1931, Vojislav Veljković, a former Minister of Finance of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, known as "the father of the Yugoslav golden Dinar", and an avid art collector, petitioned Pope Pius XI to use the lost-wax method to have bronze casts of 21 of Michelangelo's original sculptures, including Moses, produced. The Pope's approval was granted on the condition that Veljković would fashion a suitable space with a climate control system that would ensure the internal temperature would be kept within one degree Celsius throughout the year, thus preventing deformation of the bronze over time. Veljković initiated the construction a modern exhibition pavilion in the courtyard of his family house in Belgrade, the capital of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, resulting in the first private museum in Southeast Europe. He named it Museo, though it would later become colloquially known as the Veljković Pavilion. The building also featured the first modern HVAC system installed in Southeast Europe.
Once the Pope approved the petition, the Paris foundry Susse Frères was commissioned to produce the casts, and the certificates of authenticity were issued by the Vatican. Unfortunately, Veljković died before the new museum was opened in 1934, but his brother Jovan saw the project through.
Museo was opened to the public twice a week. In addition to the cast of Moses, the museum exhibited over 250 other art pieces, including casts of four other Michelangelo originals—Day, Night, Dying Slave, and Rebellious Slave—a number of paintings by Uroš Predić, Paja Jovanović, Sava Šumanović, Nadežda Petrović, and Marko Murat, a set of caricatures by Beta Vukanović, a cast of Jean-Antoine Houdon's Voltaire, as well as a number of antique sculptures.
The Axis invasion of Yugoslavia in World War II led to the closure of Museo. During the occupation, the Germans did not plunder the collection.

After the war and the Communist takeover of Yugoslavia, the museum and the art pieces were nationalized by the state. The building was first given as an atelier to Moše Pijade, then to the sculptor Sreten Stojanović, and eventually converted to a shoe and leather storage by the Municipality of Savski Venac. All the paintings from the collection, as well as a few statues, went missing during this period. The bronze casts of Michelangelo's works were transferred to the Academy of Fine Arts, which later evolved into the Faculty of Fine Arts of the University of Arts in Belgrade. They were stored at Toma Rosandić's workshop in the Topčider neighborhood. The location would later become the seat of the sculpture department of the Faculty of Fine Arts. Today, the cast of Moses is still on display there.
In 1971, a reproduction of the statue was unveiled at Myers Park in Auckland, New Zealand, purchased by the Milne & Choyce department store.


== See also ==

List of works by Michelangelo
Art patronage of Julius II


== References ==

Koosed, J. L. (2014). "Moses: The Face of Fear". Biblical Interpretation. 22 (4–5). Brill: 414–429. doi:10.1163/15685152-02245p03.
Bertman, Stephen (2009). "The Antisemitic Origin of Michelangelo's Horned Moses". Shofar. 27 (4). Purdue University Press: 95–106. doi:10.1353/sho.0.0393. JSTOR 42944790.


== External links ==
 Media related to Moses by Michelangelo Buonarroti at Wikimedia Commons

Herschel Randolph "Red" Ramsey (April 9, 1911 – April 19, 1984) was an American professional football player who was an end for four seasons with the Philadelphia Eagles of the National Football League (NFL). Ramsey played college football for the Texas Tech Red Raiders and was selected 42nd overall in the sixth round of the 1938 NFL draft, becoming the first football player drafted from Texas Technological College (now Texas Tech University).


== References ==

Åsne Seierstad (born 10 February 1970) is a Norwegian freelance journalist and writer, best known for her accounts of everyday life in war zones – most notably Kabul after 2001, Baghdad in 2002 and the ruined Grozny in 2006.


== Personal and professional life ==
Seierstad was born in Oslo, but grew up in Lillehammer, Norway, to "a feminist author mother", Lector Frøydis Guldahl, and "a leftist politician father", Assistant Professor Dag Seierstad (b. 1936) She holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Oslo where she majored in Russian, Spanish and history of ideas. 
From 1993 until 1996, she reported for the Arbeiderbladet in Russia and in 1997 from China. From 1998 until 2000, she worked for the national public broadcaster NRK where she reported from the Serbian breakaway province of Kosovo. With Their Backs to The World: Portraits of Serbia, her first book, is an account of this time. (This book was extended and republished in 2004 when she again visited Serbia. The name was changed slightly, to Portraits of Serbia, indicating that Serbia's back was no longer turned to the world.)
As a reporter, she is particularly remembered for her work in war zones such as Afghanistan, Iraq and most recently Chechnya, as well as for her reports on the September 11 attacks in the United States. The Bookseller of Kabul, her second, bestselling book, is an account of the time she spent living with an Afghan family in Kabul after the fall of the Taliban in 2001. Her other books include One Hundred And One Days: A Baghdad Journal which describes the three months she spent in Iraq in the build-up to the U.S.-led invasion in 2003; Angel of Grozny: Inside Chechnya, an account of the time she spent in Chechnya after the war; and One of Us: The Story of Anders Breivik and the Massacre in Norway (2015), which is the basis for the Netflix drama, 22 July.
Seierstad is fluent in five languages, and has "a good working knowledge" of another four. She currently [when?] lives and works in Oslo.
She has two children with the Norwegian jazz musician and composer Trygve Seim (b. 1971).


== Trial ==
There are contradictory accounts concerning Seierstad's legal battles with Shah Muhammad Rais, the bookseller portrayed in The Bookseller of Kabul. 
According to The Irish Times, on 24 July 2010 a court in Oslo found Seierstad guilty of defamation and "negligent journalistic practices and ordered to pay damages to Suraia Rais, wife of Shah Muhammad Rais". 
British newspaper The Guardian published the same story, but later revised  it online and in print. The revised version claimed Seirstad was not found guilty of defamation or of negligence, but rather of invasion of privacy, the decision on damages would be taken later, and was finally 250,000 Norwegian kroner (£26,000). In relation to the book's influence on Rais's family members, The Guardian wrote "The article also said the book's revelations of personal details caused several members of the Afghan family to move to Pakistan and Canada. We should have made clear this was an allegation made by the plaintiff's side in a case document." 
Seierstad won her appeal of the judgment and the Supreme Court declined to review the appellate court's decision.


== Awards and honours ==
1999: Gullruten Award for the best news coverage from Kosovo.
2001: Fritt Ord Honorary Award
2002: Årets Frilanser Award from the Norwegian reporters association. Also received the Norwegian Booksellers' Prize.
2003: Nominated for the 2003 Kurt Schork Award in International Journalism
2003: The Peer Gynt and Den Store Journalistprisen which is the highest honour a reporter in Norway can receive.
2004: The Bookseller of Kabul was shortlisted for the first Richard & Judy Best Read of the Year Award 2004.
2004: Winner of EMMA (Ethnic Multicultural Media award), London, May 2004
2004: Prix de Libraires, France
2018: Leipzig Book Award for European Understanding


== Published works ==

With Their Backs to The World: Portraits of Serbia (2000,  updated extensively in 2004)
The Bookseller of Kabul (2002, English translation 2003)
One Hundred And One Days: A Baghdad Journal (2005)
Angel of Grozny: Inside Chechnya (2007)
 One of Us. The Story of Anders Breivik and the Massacre in Norway (2015)
Two Sisters: A Father, His Daughters, and Their Journey into the Syrian Jihad (2018)
Afghanerne (2022)
The Afghans: Three Lives Through War, Love and Revolt


== References ==


== Sources ==
"Åsne Seierstad – Norsk biografisk leksikon". Norsk biografisk leksikon (in Norwegian). 30 June 2022. Retrieved 15 September 2023.


== External links ==

Official website
"Åsne Seierstad". Store norske leksikon (in Norwegian). Foreningen Store norske leksikon.

The Argun  or Ergune (Chinese: 额尔古纳河) is a 1,620-kilometre (1,010 mi) long river that forms part of the eastern China–Russia border, together with the Amur. Its upper reaches are known as the Hailar River (海拉尔河) in China. The Argun marks the border (established by the Treaty of Nerchinsk in 1689) between Russia and China for about 944 kilometres (587 mi), until it meets the Amur.


== Name ==
The name derives from Buryat Urgengol 'wide river' (urgen 'wide' + gol 'river'). Mongolian word "ergün" (in Traditional Mongolian alphabet) or "örgön" (in modern Mongolian) means "wide".


== Geography ==
The river flows from the western slope of the Greater Xing'an Range in China's Inner Mongolia, and forms the Chinese side of the two rivers that flow together to produce the Amur (Heilong). Its confluence with the Shilka at Ust-Strelka on the Russian side forms the Amur. The Argun is 1,620 kilometres (1,010 mi) long including its upper course Hailar, and has a drainage basin of 164,000 square kilometres (63,000 sq mi). Its main tributaries are the Urov, Uryumkan and Gazimur from the left, and the Gen He from the right.


== Kherlen–Argun–Amur ==
In years with high precipitation, the normally exitless Hulun Lake may overflow at its northern shore, and the water will meet the Argun after about 30 kilometres (19 mi). The Kherlen–Argun–Amur system has a total length of 5,052 kilometres (3,139 mi).


== History ==
In The Secret History of the Mongols is a legend related to the Ergüne hun Mongol ancestry. In this legend, the Mongols prevailed over other tribes and carried such slaughter among them, that in living remained no more than two men and two women. These two families, in fear of the enemy, fled to the inhospitable terrain, which included only mountains and forests and to which there was no road. Among those mountains was the abundant grass and healthy climate of the steppe. Then, legend tells that in Ergune-Khun, Mongols multiplied and become masters of iron smelting and blacksmithing. According to legend, it is the art of melting iron that has helped them escape from the mountain gorges on scope of the current Mongolian steppes, to the Kherlen (Kelulun) and Onon rivers.
Prior to the emergence of the Mongols, the Amur River basin was home to certain tribes of Jurchen people, who founded the Jin dynasty (1115–1234) in northern China. The Manchu people who founded the Qing dynasty (1644–1912) additionally claimed descent from the Jurchens. Following the Russian conquest of Siberia in the 17th century, Russia-China relations were formalized in the 1689 Treaty of Nerchinsk, which established the Argun River as the China–Russia border. However, prior to the Amur Annexation of Outer Manchuria, China's border extended further to include the so-called Sixty-Four Villages East of the River in present-day Amur Oblast, southern Khabarovsk, and all of Primorsky Krai. Although the subsequent Amur Annexation fixed the eastern Sino-Russian border at the Amur, it would only be at the 1991 Sino-Soviet Border Agreement when all Sino-Soviet border conflicts would be resolved.


== References ==

Careproctus spiraki, or pimpled snailfish, is a small, marine, bottom-dwelling snailfish.  The type specimen was collected in a bottom trawl 457 meters deep in Seguam Pass in the Aleutian Islands.  The species was first described to science by J. W. Orr in 2021. 


== Description ==
The description of this species is based on 19 individuals collected from deep water in the western Aleutians from 2000 to 2018.  Their length varied from 38.7 mm to 52.5 mm.  The head is rounded and tapers to a slender tail.  They had between 38 and 43 dorsal-fin rays and 10 to 12 caudal-fin rays.  They had 4 to 8 gill rakers.  The mouth of this species is about 1 cm wide and is lined with small teeth.
These fish are pink-colored.  Since seawater absorbs longer wavelengths of light, this color makes them harder to see for predators.
This species is distinguished from similar North Pacific snailfishes by its more slender body which is covered in small bumps topped with tiny prickles, and anterior dorsal-fin rays that stick out of the fin's membrane.  It is distinguished from the similar Careproctus maslenikovae by its more slender, less robust body.


== Distribution ==
Careproctus spiraki has been collected from Kiska Island to Unmak Island in waters between 193 meters and 447 meters deep.  All of the collections were from bottom trawls suggesting this species is benthic.  Given the small number of deep-water trawls looking for tiny, non-commercial species of fish, it is possible that the species ranges unnoticed beyond the bounds of existing collections.


== Life history ==
Little is known of the life history of this species.  One was found in the stomach of darkfin sculpin, Malacocottus zonurus, reinforcing the suggestion of its pink body color that C. spiraki is a prey species for larger fish.  Among the nineteen C. spiraki collected were reproductively mature females from 39 to 52 mm long which were ripe with yolked eggs.  No ripe males with swollen testes were found, leaving open the timing of spawning.


== References ==

The Philippines participated at the 15th Southeast Asian Games held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia from 20–31 August 1989.


== SEA Games performance ==
Swimmer Eric Buhain won three gold medals in his favorite events, all in record times, to become the best performer among close to 3,000 peers that represented nine other Southeast Asian neighbors. Buhain's feat served as the saving grace in the otherwise mediocre and scandalous participation of the Philippines in the biennial meet. 15-year old swimming star Akiko Thomson and Buhain's teammate in the swimming squad, also shone with three gold medals, fashioned out in record-breaking times of both the national and SEA Games marks. Elma Muros, tagged to win at least four gold medals, settled for only two following a leg injury, took the gold in long jump, surpassing the Asian Games standard, to become the only other athlete in the field, outside of Buhain to better an Asian record.
The results of the 26 gold medals harvest was the worst finish of any Philippine delegation to the SEA Games. It came too short of an earlier projection of 59 gold medals. Many dubbed the Philippine participation as a debacle or a disaster as cries of resignation for sports leaders were heard. 


== Medalists ==


=== Gold ===


=== Silver ===


=== Bronze ===


=== Multiple ===


== Medal summary ==


=== By sports ===


== References ==


== External links ==
http://www.olympic.ph

The history of hospitals began in antiquity with hospitals in Greece, the Roman Empire, Sasanian Iran and on the Indian subcontinent as well, starting with precursors in the Asclepian temples in ancient Greece and then the military hospitals in ancient Rome.  The Greek temples were dedicated to the sick and infirm but did not look anything like modern hospitals.  The Romans did not have dedicated, public hospitals.   Public hospitals, per se, did not exist until the Christian period. Towards the end of the 4th century, the "second medical revolution" took place with the founding of the first Christian hospital in the eastern Byzantine Empire by Basil of Caesarea, and within a few decades, such hospitals had become ubiquitous in Byzantine society. The hospital would undergo development and progress throughout Byzantine, medieval European and Islamic societies from the 5th to the 15th century. European exploration brought hospitals to colonies in North America, Africa, and Asia.
St Bartholomew's hospital in West Smithfield in London, founded in 1123, is widely considered the oldest functioning hospital today. Originally a charitable institution, currently an NHS hospital it continues to provide free care to Londoners, as it has for 900 years. In contrast, the Mihintale Hospital in Sri Lanka, established in the 9th century is probably the site with the oldest archaeological evidence available for a hospital in the world. Serving monks and the local community, it represents early advancements in healthcare practices.
The first Western-style hospital in Japan was established in 1556 by Jesuit missionary Luis de Almeida. Early Chinese and Korean hospitals were founded by Western missionaries in the 1800s. In the early modern era care and healing would transition into a secular affair in the West for many hospitals.  During World War I and World War II, many military hospitals and hospital innovations were created.  Government run hospitals increased in Korea, Japan, China, and the Middle East after World War II.  In the late 1900s and 21st century, hospital networks and government health organizations were formed to manage groups of hospitals to control costs and share resources.  Many smaller, less efficient hospitals in the West were closed because they could not be sustained.


== Antiquity ==
In ancient history, hospitals have been documented in Greece, Rome, the Indian subcontinent, and Iran.  In ancient cultures, religion and medicine were linked.


=== Greece ===

In ancient Greece, temples dedicated to the healer-god Asclepius, known as Asclepieia (Ancient Greek: Ἀσκληπιεῖα, sing. Asclepieion, Ἀσκληπιεῖον), functioned as centres of medical advice, prognosis, and healing. Asclepeia provided carefully controlled spaces conducive to healing and fulfilled several of the requirements of institutions created for healing. Under his Roman name Æsculapius, he was provided with a temple (291 BCE) on an island in the Tiber in Rome (the Tiber Island), where similar rites were performed.
At these shrines, patients would enter a dream-like state of induced sleep known as enkoimesis (ἐγκοίμησις) not unlike anesthesia, in which they either received guidance from the deity in a dream. In the Asclepieion of Epidaurus, three large marble boards dated to 350 BCE preserve the names, case histories, complaints, and cures of about 70 patients who came to the temple with a problem and shed it there. Some of the surgical cures listed, such as the opening of an abdominal abscess or the removal of traumatic foreign material, are realistic enough to have taken place, but with the patient in a state of enkoimesis induced with the help of soporific substances such as opium. The worship of Asclepius was adopted by the Romans.
The Athenian Navy had a ship named Therapia, and the Roman Navy had a ship named Aesculapius, their names indicating that they may have been hospital ships.


=== Roman Empire ===

The Romans constructed buildings called valetudinaria for the care of sick slaves, gladiators, and soldiers around 100 BCE, and many were identified by later archaeology. While their existence is considered proven, there is some doubt as to whether they were as widespread as was once thought, as many were identified only according to the layout of building remains, and not by means of surviving records or finds of medical tools.
The declaration of Christianity as an accepted religion in the Roman Empire drove an expansion of the provision of care. Following First Council of Nicaea in 325 CE construction of a hospital in every cathedral town was begun. Among the earliest were those built by the physician Saint Sampson in Constantinople and by Basil of Caesarea in modern-day Turkey towards the end of the 4th century. By the beginning of the 5th century, the hospital had already become ubiquitous throughout the Christian east in the Byzantine world, this being a dramatic shift from the pre-Christian era of the Roman Empire where no civilian hospitals existed. Called the "Basilias", the latter resembled a city and included housing for doctors and nurses and separate buildings for various classes of patients. There was a separate section for lepers. Some hospitals maintained libraries and training programs, and doctors compiled their medical and pharmacological studies in manuscripts. Thus in-patient medical care in the sense of what we today consider a hospital, was an invention driven by Christian mercy and Byzantine innovation. Byzantine hospital staff included the Chief Physician (archiatroi), professional nurses (hypourgoi) and the orderlies (hyperetai). By the twelfth century, Constantinople had two well-organized hospitals, staffed by doctors who were both male and female. Facilities included systematic treatment procedures and specialized wards for various diseases.


=== South & East Asia ===

During the 4th century BCE in ancient Sri Lanka, according to the Mahāvaṃsa chronicle from the 6th century CE, King Pandukabhaya constructed hospitals and lying-in-homes after fortifying his capital in Anuradhapura. This provides the earliest literary evidence of hospitals, where patients could be housed and treated collectively. The oldest archaeological evidence of a hospital in Asia can be found in the ruins of Mihintale, dating back to the ninth century. Scholars suggest that this may be one of the oldest hospitals in the world.
King Ashoka is said by many secondary sources to have founded hospitals ca. 230 BCE. Early medical practices emerged early on in the Indian subcontinent with the practice of Ayurvedic medicine, one of the earliest texts for which survive being the Charaka Samhita and Sushruta Samhita. Some early Buddhist communities established monastic communities with monasteries, and many of these monasteries were centers of learning for medicine. While sick monks within the monastic communities were usually treated in their own cells, some monasteries reserved a room where sick monks could be taken care of. While some of these rooms in Buddhist monasteries may have been open to the public, the majority were closed off to the public and were reserved for treating other monks within the monastery. This ideal is reflected in the story of the monk with dysentery. The first clear reference to an actual hospital within the southeast Asian world occurs in the accounts of the traveller Fa Xian in the 5th century CE, who describes hospitals in the city of Pataliputra and a few other sites:

The benevolent and educated persons of this country have instituted a free hospital within the city; and hither come all poor or helpless inhabitants suffering from all kinds of infirmities. They are well taken care of, and a doctor attends them, food and medicine being supplied according to their wants. Thus they are made quite comfortable, and when they are well they may go away.
The first clear archaeological evidence of such hospitals first appears in the eighth and ninth centuries. Nevertheless, it would be inaccurate to portray the period as a time when a system of hospitals had existed. Rather, rulers from time to time may have sponsored and allocated resources for particular medical care for the population in particular places. In one case, a countrywide system of hospitals was established in 12th century Cambodia under the Cambodian king Jayavarman VII, who associated it with the Buddha of healing Bhaisajyaguru.
Significant and asymmetric transfers of knowledge to the southeast Asian world from the Greek one began during the reign of Alexander the Great in the late 4th century BCE as Hellenization swept the continent.
While usually assumed that Tibetan medicine was largely Chinese in origin, it turns out that Tibetan medicine was actually largely Westernized, at least during the first century of the Tibetan Empire in the 7th–8th centuries. Persian and Arab doctors from the Islamic Caliphate could be found all across China in this time period. It's also possible that Indian physicians played a role in a short-lived, but still one of the earliest Abbasid hospitals established by the Barkamid family.


== 5th to the 15th century ==

In the Medieval period the term hospital encompassed hostels for travellers, dispensaries for poor relief, clinics and surgeries for the injured, and homes for the blind, lame, elderly, and mentally ill. Monastic hospitals developed many treatments, both therapeutic and spiritual.
During the thirteenth century an immense number of hospitals were built. The Italian cities were the leaders of the movement. Milan had no fewer than a dozen hospitals and Florence before the end of the fourteenth century had some thirty hospitals. Some of these were very beautiful buildings. At Milan a portion of the general hospital was designed by Bramante and another part of it by Michelangelo. The Hospital of Siena, built in honor of St. Catherine, has been famous ever since. Everywhere throughout Europe this hospital movement spread. Virchow, the great German pathologist, in an article on hospitals, showed that every city of Germany of five thousand inhabitants had its hospital. He traced all of this hospital movement to  Pope Innocent III, and though he was least papistically inclined, Virchow did not hesitate to give extremely high praise to this pontiff for all that he had accomplished for the benefit of children and suffering mankind.
Hospitals began to appear in great numbers in France and England. Following the French Norman invasion into England, the explosion of French ideals led most Medieval monasteries to develop a hospitium or hospice for pilgrims. This hospitium eventually developed into what we now understand as a hospital, with various monks and lay helpers providing the medical care for sick pilgrims and victims of the numerous plagues and chronic diseases that afflicted Medieval Western Europe. Benjamin Gordon supports the theory that the hospital – as we know it – is a French invention, but that it was originally developed for isolating lepers and plague victims, and only later undergoing modification to serve the pilgrim.
Owing to a well-preserved 12th-century account of the monk Eadmer of the Canterbury cathedral, there is an excellent account of Bishop Lanfranc's aim to establish and maintain examples of these early hospitals:

But I must not conclude my work by omitting what he did for the poor outside the walls of the city Canterbury. In brief, he constructed a decent and ample house of stone...for different needs and conveniences. He divided the main building into two, appointing one part for men oppressed by various kinds of infirmities and the other for women in a bad state of health. He also made arrangements for their clothing and daily food, appointing ministers and guardians to take all measures so that nothing should be lacking for them.


=== India ===
During the Chola Empire (9th to 13th centuries CE), health care was institutionalized via state-supported village dispensaries and hospitals alternatively referred to in epigraphs as atulasalai or vaidyasalai. These facilities were commonly integrated into local temple economies and sustained via vaittiyavritti—royal land grants specifically allocated to hereditary medical practitioners.
The most complete operational blueprint of a Chola medical center comes from a 1067 CE inscription commissioned by Emperor Veera Rajendra Chola at the Venkateswara temple in Tirumukkudal. The inscription details the Veera Cholesvara Hospital, a 15-bed institutional infirmary that provided Ayurvedic and Siddha care to students, teachers, and temple members. The staff followed a strict institutional hierarchy, consisting of a chief physician, a surgeon, two male herbalists, two female nurses responsible for feeding and dosage preparation, a barber, a washerman, and a waterman.


=== Persia ===
The Academy of Gondishapur was a hospital and medical training center at Gundeshapur in Persia. The city of Gundeshapur was founded in 271 CE by the Sasanian king Shapur I. It was one of the major cities in Khuzestan province of the Persian empire, in Iran. A large percentage of the population were Syriacs, most of whom were Christians. Under the rule of Khosrow I, refuge was granted to Greek Nestorian Christian philosophers including the scholars of the Persian School of Edessa (Urfa) (also called the Academy of Athens), a Christian theological and medical university. These scholars made their way to Gundeshapur in 529 following the closing of the academy by Emperor Justinian. They were engaged in medical sciences and initiated the first translation projects of medical texts. The arrival of these medical practitioners from Edessa marks the beginning of the hospital and medical centre at Gundeshapur. It included a medical school and hospital (bimaristan), a pharmacology laboratory, a translation house, a library and an observatory. Indian doctors also contributed to the school at Gundeshapur, most notably the medical researcher Mankah. Following the Muslim conquest of Persia in the 7th century, the writings of Mankah (Ancient Indian physician) and of the ancient Indian physician and surgeon Sushruta were translated into Arabic at Baghdad's House of Wisdom.


=== Medieval Islamic hospitals ===

The first Muslim hospital was an asylum to contain leprosy, built in the early eighth century, where patients were confined but, like the blind, were given a stipend to support their families. The earliest general hospital was built in 805 CE in Baghdad by Harun Al-Rashid. By the tenth century, Baghdad had five more hospitals, while Damascus had six hospitals by the 15th century and Córdoba alone had 50 major hospitals, many exclusively for the military. Many of the prominent early Islamic hospitals were founded with assistance by Christians such as Jibrael ibn Bukhtishu from Gundeshapur. "Bimaristan" is a compound of "bimar" (sick or ill) and "stan" (place). In the medieval Islamic world, the word "bimaristan" referred to a hospital establishment where the ill were welcomed, cared for and treated by qualified staff.
The United States National Library of Medicine credits the hospital as being a product of medieval Islamic civilization. Compared to contemporaneous Christian institutions, which were poor and sick relief facilities offered by some monasteries, the Islamic hospital was a more elaborate institution with a wider range of functions. In Islam, there was a moral imperative to treat the ill regardless of financial status. Islamic hospitals tended to be large, urban structures, and were largely secular institutions, many open to all, whether male or female, civilian or military, child or adult, rich or poor, Muslim or non-Muslim. The Islamic hospital served several purposes, as a center of medical treatment, a home for patients recovering from illness or accidents, an insane asylum, and a retirement home with basic maintenance needs for the aged and infirm.
The typical hospital was divided into departments such as systemic diseases, surgery and orthopedics with larger hospitals having more diverse specialties. "Systemic diseases" was the rough equivalent of today's internal medicine and was further divided into sections such as fever, infections and digestive issues. Every department had an officer-in-charge, a presiding officer and a supervising specialist. The hospitals also had lecture theaters and libraries. Hospitals staff included sanitary inspectors, who regulated cleanliness, and accountants and other administrative staff. The hospital in Baghdad employed twenty-five staff physicians. The hospitals were typically run by a three-man board comprising a non-medical administrator, the chief pharmacist, called the shaykh saydalani, who was equal in rank to the chief physician, who served as mutwalli (dean). Medical facilities traditionally closed each night, but by the 10th century laws were passed to keep hospitals open 24 hours a day.
For less serious cases, physicians staffed outpatient clinics. Cities also had first aid centers staffed by physicians for emergencies that were often located in busy public places, such as big gatherings for Friday prayers to take care of casualties. The region also had mobile units staffed by doctors and pharmacists who were supposed to meet the need of remote communities. Baghdad was also known to have a separate hospital for convicts since the early 10th century after the vizier 'Ali ibn Isa ibn Jarah ibn Thabit wrote to Baghdad's chief medical officer that "prisons must have their own doctors who should examine them every day". The first hospital built in Egypt, in Cairo's Southwestern quarter, was the first documented facility to care for mental illnesses while the first Islamic psychiatric hospital opened in Baghdad in 705.
Medical students would accompany physicians and participate in patient care. Hospitals in this era were the first to require medical diplomas to license doctors. The licensing test was administered by the region's government appointed chief medical officer. The test had two steps; the first was to write a treatise, on the subject the candidate wished to obtain a certificate, of original research or commentary of existing texts, which they were encouraged to scrutinize for errors. The second step was to answer questions in an interview with the chief medical officer. Physicians worked fixed hours and medical staff salaries were fixed by law. For regulating the quality of care and arbitrating cases, it is related that if a patient dies, their family presents the doctor's prescriptions to the chief physician who would judge if the death was natural or if it was by negligence, in which case the family would be entitled to compensation from the doctor. The hospitals had male and female quarters while some hospitals only saw men and other hospitals, staffed by women physicians, only saw women. While women physicians practiced medicine, many largely focused on obstetrics.

Hospitals were forbidden by law to turn away patients who were unable to pay. Eventually, charitable foundations called waqfs were formed to support hospitals, as well as schools. Part of the state budget also went towards maintaining hospitals. While the services of the hospital were free for all citizens and patients were sometimes given a small stipend to support recovery upon discharge, individual physicians occasionally charged fees. In a notable endowment, a 13th-century governor of Egypt Al Mansur Qalawun ordained a foundation for the Qalawun hospital that would contain a mosque and a chapel, separate wards for different diseases, a library for doctors and a pharmacy and the hospital is used today for ophthalmology. The Qalawun hospital was based in a former Fatimid palace which had accommodation for 8,000 people - "it served 4,000 patients daily." The waqf stated, ...The hospital shall keep all patients, men and women, until they are completely recovered. All costs are to be borne by the hospital whether the people come from afar or near, whether they are residents or foreigners, strong or weak, low or high, rich or poor, employed or unemployed, blind or sighted, physically or mentally ill, learned or illiterate. There are no conditions of consideration and payment, none is objected to or even indirectly hinted at for non-payment.
The first, most well known physicians in the Medieval Islamic world were polymaths Ibn Sina, (Greek: Avicenna) and Al Rhazi (Greek: Rhazes) during the 10th and 11th centuries.


=== Medieval European hospitals ===

Medieval hospitals in Europe followed a similar pattern to the Byzantine. They were religious communities, with care provided by monks and nuns. An old French term for hospital is hôtel-Dieu, "hostel of God." Some were attached to monasteries; others were independent and had their own endowments, usually of property, which provided income for their support. Some hospitals were multi-functional while others were founded for specific purposes such as leper hospitals, or as refuges for the poor, or for pilgrims: not all cared for the sick.
Around 529 CE St. Benedict of Nursia (480–543 CE), later a Christian saint, the founder of western monasticism and the Order of St. Benedict, today the patron saint of Europe, established the first monastery in Europe (Monte Cassino) on a hilltop between Rome and Naples, that became a model for the Western monasticism and one of the major cultural centers of Europe throughout the Middle Ages. St. Benedict wrote the Rule of Saint Benedict which mandated the moral obligations to care for the sick.

The first Spanish hospital, founded by the Catholic Visigoth bishop Masona in 580 CE at Mérida, was a xenodochium designed as an inn for travellers (mostly pilgrims to the shrine of Eulalia of Mérida) as well as a hospital for citizens and local farmers. The hospital's endowment consisted of farms to feed its patients and guests. From the account given by Paul the Deacon we learn that this hospital was supplied with physicians and nurses, whose mission included the care the sick wherever they were found, "slave or free, Christian or Jew."
In 650, the "Hôtel-Dieu" was found in Paris, but its first recorded mention only dates back to 829, it is considered by many as the oldest worldwide hospital still operating today. It was a multipurpose institution which catered for the sick and poor, offering shelter, food and medical care.
During the late 8th and early 9th centuries, Emperor Charlemagne decreed that those hospitals that had been well conducted before his time and had fallen into decay should be restored in accordance with the needs of the time. He further ordered that a hospital should be attached to each cathedral and monastery.
During the 10th century, the monasteries became a dominant factor in hospital work. The famous Benedictine Abbey of Cluny, founded in 910, set the example which was widely imitated throughout France and Germany. Besides its infirmary for the religious, each monastery had a hospital in which externs were cared for. These were in charge of the eleemosynarius, whose duties, carefully prescribed by the rule, included every sort of service that the visitor or patient could require.
As the eleemosynarius was obliged to seek out the sick and needy in the neighborhood, each monastery became a center for the relief of suffering. Among the monasteries notable in this respect were those of the Benedictines at Corbie in Picardy, Hirschau, Braunweiler, Deutz, Ilsenburg, Liesborn, Pram, and Fulda; those of the Cistercians at Arnsberg, Baumgarten, Eberbach, Himmenrode, Herrnalb, Volkenrode, and Walkenried.

No less efficient was the work done by the diocesan clergy in accordance with the disciplinary enactments of the councils of Aachen (817, 836), which prescribed that a hospital should be maintained in connection with each collegiate church. The canons were obliged to contribute towards the support of the hospital, and one of their number had charge of the inmates. As these hospitals were located in cities, more numerous demands were made upon them than upon those attached to the monasteries. In this movement the bishop naturally took the lead, hence the hospitals founded by Heribert of Cologne (d. 1021) in Cologne, Godard (d. 1038) in Hildesheim, Conrad (d. 975) in Constance, and Ulrich (d. 973) in Augsburg. But similar provision was made by the other churches; thus at Trier the hospitals of Saint Maximin, Saint Matthew, Saint Simeon, and Saint James took their names from the churches to which they were attached. During the period 1207–1577 no less than one hundred and fifty-five hospitals were founded in Germany.
The Ospedale Maggiore, traditionally named Ca' Granda (i.e. Big House), in Milan, northern Italy, was constructed to house one of the first community hospitals, the largest such undertaking of the fifteenth century. Commissioned by Francesco Sforza in 1456 and designed by Antonio Filarete it is among the first examples of Renaissance architecture in Lombardy.
The Normans brought their hospital system along when they conquered England in 1066. By merging with traditional land-tenure and customs, the new charitable houses became popular and were distinct from both English monasteries and French hospitals. They dispensed alms and some medicine, and were generously endowed by the nobility and gentry who counted on them for spiritual rewards after death.


=== Late medieval European hospitals ===
The Hospitaller Order of St. John of Jerusalem, founded in 1099 (The Knights of Malta) itself has – as its raison d'être – the founding of a hospital for pilgrims to the Holy Land. In Europe, Spanish hospitals are particularly noteworthy examples of Christian virtue as expressed through care for the sick, and were usually attached to a monastery in a ward-chapel configuration, most often erected in the shape of a cross. This style reached a high point during the hospital building campaign of Portuguese St. John of God in the sixteenth-century, the founder of the Hospitaller Order of the Brothers of John of God.
Soon many monasteries were founded throughout Europe, and everywhere there were hospitals like in Monte Cassino. By the 11th century, some monasteries were training their own physicians. Ideally, such physicians would uphold the Christianized ideal of the healer who offered mercy and charity towards all patients and soldiers, whatever their status and prognosis might be. In the 6th–12th centuries the Benedictines established many monk communities of this type. And later, in the 12th–13th centuries the Benedictines order built a network of independent hospitals, initially to provide general care to the sick and wounded and then for treatment of syphilis and isolation of patients with communicable disease. The hospital movement spread through Europe in the subsequent centuries, with a 225-bed hospital being built at York in 1287 and even larger facilities established at Florence, Paris, Milan, Siena, and other medieval big European cities. In 1120 a man named Rahere fell ill with malaria in Rome: he was taken care of by the monks of the small hospital near the church of San Bartolomeo, on the Tiber Island, and took a vow to found a hospital in case he was cured. Effectively cured, in 1123 he founded a small hospital for the poor outside London: it was the first nucleus of the famous St Bartholomew's Hospital, still active today, commonly called "Bart".
In the North during the late Saxon period, monasteries, nunneries, and hospitals functioned mainly as a site of charity to the poor. After the Norman Conquest of 1066, hospitals are found to be autonomous, freestanding institutions. They dispensed alms and some medicine, and were generously endowed by the nobility and gentry who counted on them for spiritual rewards after death. In time, hospitals became popular charitable houses that were distinct from both English monasteries and French hospitals.
The primary function of medieval hospitals was to worship to God. Most hospitals contained one chapel, at least one clergyman, and inmates that were expected to help with prayer. Worship was often a higher priority than care and was a large part of hospital life until and long after the Reformation. Worship in medieval hospitals served as a way of alleviating ailments of the sick and insuring their salvation when relief from sickness could not be achieved.

The secondary function of medieval hospitals was charity to the poor, sick, and travellers. Charity provided by hospitals surfaced in different ways, including long-term maintenance of the infirm, medium-term care of the sick, short-term hospitality to travellers, and regular distribution of alms to the poor. Though these were general acts of charity among medieval hospitals, the degree of charity was variable. For example, some institutions that perceived themselves mainly as a religious house or place of hospitality turned away the sick or dying in fear that difficult healthcare will distract from worship. Others, however, such as St. James of Northallerton, St. Giles Hospital of Norwich, and St. Leonard's Hospital of York, contained specific ordinances stating they must cater to the sick and that "all who entered with ill health should be allowed to stay until they recovered or died". The study of these three hospitals provides insight into the diet, medical care, cleanliness and daily life in a medieval hospital of Europe.
The tertiary function of medieval hospitals was to support education and learning. Originally, hospitals educated chaplains and priestly brothers in literacy and history; however, by the 13th century, some hospitals became involved in the education of impoverished boys and young adults. Soon after, hospitals began to provide food and shelter for scholars within the hospital in return for helping with chapel worship.


== 16th and 17th centuries ==
Notable hospitals in the 16th and 17th centuries with articles in Wikipedia


=== Early modern Europe ===

In Europe the medieval concept of Christian care evolved during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries into a secular one. Theology was the problem. The Protestant reformers rejected the Catholic belief that rich men could gain God's grace through good works – and escape purgatory – by providing endowments to charitable institutions, and that the patients themselves could gain grace through their suffering.
After the dissolution of the monasteries in 1540 by King Henry VIII the church abruptly ceased to be the supporter of hospitals, and only by direct petition from the citizens of London, were the hospitals St Bartholomew's, St Thomas's and St Mary of Bethlehem's (Bedlam) endowed directly by the crown. It was at St. Bartholomew that William Harvey conducted his research on the circulatory system in the 17th century, Percivall Pott and John Abernethy developed important principles of modern surgery in the 18th century, and Mrs. Bedford Fenwich worked to advance the nursing profession in the late 19th century.
There were 28 asylums in Sweden at the start of the Reformation. Gustav Vasa removed them from church control and expelled the monks and nuns, but allowed the asylums to keep their properties and to continue their activities under the auspices of local government.
In much of Europe town governments operated small Holy Spirit hospitals, which had been founded in the 13th and 14th centuries. They distributed free food and clothing to the poor, provided for homeless women and children, and gave some medical and nursing care. Many were raided and closed during the Thirty Years War (1618–48), which ravaged the towns and villages of Germany and neighboring areas for three decades.
In Denmark, the beginnings of modern hospital care started during the Scanian War (1675–79) when Denmark suffered disastrous losses. Five government-run hospitals were founded around the Sound: one at Elsinore, two at Copenhagen, one at Landskrona and one at Helsingborg. The one at Landskrona was based on the old Holy Spirit institution but now it was modernised and enlarged. One of the two Copenhagen institutions was placed in a former plague hospital. The government spent vast sums on equipment, from bone saws to beds and staff. Women nursed the wounded and sick soldiers on a day-to-day basis but men were always head of these hospitals. They had various surgeons and physicians, but never enough of them. The meals were based on porridge, herring, beer and peas. After Denmark lost the war, Helsingborg and Landskrona were surrendered to the Swedes but the hospitals in Elsinore and Copenhagen continued their work.
Meanwhile, in Catholic lands such as France and Italy, rich families continued to fund convents and monasteries that provided free health services to the poor. French practices were influenced by a charitable imperative which considered care of the poor and the sick to be a necessary part of Catholic practice. The nursing nuns had little faith in the power of physicians and their medicines alone to cure the sick; more important was providing psychological and physical comfort, nourishment, rest, cleanliness and especially prayer.
In Protestant areas the emphasis was on scientific rather than religious aspects of patient care, and this helped develop a view of nursing as a profession rather than a vocation. There was little hospital development by the main Protestant churches after 1530. Some smaller groups such as the Moravians and the Pietists at Halle gave a role for hospitals, especially in missionary work.


=== Colonial Americas ===

The first hospital founded in the Americas was the Hospital San Nicolás de Bari in Santo Domingo, Distrito Nacional Dominican Republic. Fray Nicolás de Ovando, Spanish governor and colonial administrator from 1502 to 1509, authorized its construction on December 29, 1503. This hospital apparently incorporated a church. The first phase of its construction was completed in 1519, and it was rebuilt in 1552. Abandoned in the mid-18th century, the hospital now lies in ruins near the Basilica Cathedral of Santa María la Menor in Santo Domingo.
Conquistador Hernán Cortés founded the two earliest hospitals in North America: the Immaculate Conception Hospital and the Saint Lazarus Hospital. The oldest was the Immaculate Conception, now the Hospital de Jesús Nazareno in Mexico City, founded in 1524 to care for the poor.
In Quebec, Catholics operated hospitals continuously from the 1640s; they attracted nuns from the provincial elite. Jeanne Mance (1606–73) founded Montreal's city's first hospital, the Hôtel-Dieu de Montréal, in 1645. In 1657 she recruited three sisters of the Religious Hospitallers of St. Joseph, and continued to direct operations of the hospital. The project, begun by the niece of Cardinal de Richelieu was granted a royal charter by King Louis XIII and staffed by a colonial physician, Robert Giffard de Moncel. The General Hospital in Quebec City opened in 1692. They often handled malaria, dysentery, and respiratory sickness.


== 18th century ==

In the 18th century, under the influence of the Age of Enlightenment, the modern hospital began to appear, serving only medical needs and staffed with trained physicians and surgeons. The nurses were untrained workers. The goal was to use modern methods to cure patients. They provided more narrow medical services, and were founded by the secular authorities. A clearer distinction emerged between medicine and poor relief. Within the hospitals, acute cases were increasingly treated alone, and separate departments were set up for different categories of patient.

The voluntary hospital movement began in the early 18th century, with hospitals being founded in London by the 1710s and 20s, including Westminster Hospital (1719) promoted by the private bank C. Hoare & Co and Guy's Hospital (1724) funded from the bequest of the wealthy merchant, Thomas Guy. Other hospitals sprang up in London and other British cities over the century, many paid for by private subscriptions. St. Bartholomew's in London was rebuilt in 1730, and the London Hospital opened in 1752.
These hospitals represented a turning point in the function of the institution; they began to evolve from being basic places of care for the sick to becoming centres of medical innovation and discovery and the principal place for the education and training of prospective practitioners. Some of the era's greatest surgeons and doctors worked and passed on their knowledge at the hospitals. They also changed from being mere homes of refuge to being complex institutions for the provision of medicine and care for sick. The Charité was founded in Berlin in 1710 by King Frederick I of Prussia as a response to an outbreak of plague.
The concept of voluntary hospitals also spread to Colonial America; the Bellevue Hospital opened in 1736, Pennsylvania Hospital in 1752, New York Hospital in 1771, and Massachusetts General Hospital in 1811. When the Vienna General Hospital opened in 1784 (instantly becoming the world's largest hospital), physicians acquired a new facility that gradually developed into one of the most important research centres.
Another Enlightenment era charitable innovation was the dispensary; these would issue the poor with medicines free of charge. The London Dispensary opened its doors in 1696 as the first such clinic in the British Empire. The idea was slow to catch on until the 1770s, when many such organizations began to appear, including the Public Dispensary of Edinburgh (1776), the Metropolitan Dispensary and Charitable Fund (1779) and the Finsbury Dispensary (1780). Dispensaries were also opened in New York 1771, Philadelphia 1786, and Boston 1796.
Across Europe medical schools still relied primarily on lectures and readings. In the final year, students would have limited clinical experience by following the professor through the wards. Laboratory work was uncommon, and dissections were rarely done because of legal restrictions on cadavers. Most schools were small, and only Edinburgh, Scotland, with 11,000 alumni, produced large numbers of graduates.


== 19th century ==


=== United Kingdom ===
English physician Thomas Percival (1740–1804) wrote a comprehensive system of medical conduct, Medical Ethics; or, a Code of Institutes and Precepts, Adapted to the Professional Conduct of Physicians and Surgeons (1803) that set the standard for many textbooks.

In the mid 19th century, hospitals and the medical profession became more professionalized, with a reorganization of hospital management along more bureaucratic and administrative lines. The Apothecaries Act 1815 made it compulsory for medical students to practice for at least half a year at a hospital as part of their training. An example of this professionalization was the Charing Cross Hospital, set up in 1818 as the 'West London Infirmary and Dispensary' from funds provided by Dr. Benjamin Golding. By 1821 it was treating nearly 10,000 patients a year, and it was relocated to larger quarters near Charing Cross in the heart of London. Its Charing Cross Hospital Medical School opened in 1822. It expanded several times and 1866 added a professional nursing staff.
Florence Nightingale pioneered the modern profession of nursing during the Crimean War when she set an example of compassion, commitment to patient care and diligent and thoughtful hospital administration. The first official nurses' training programme, the Nightingale School for Nurses, was opened in 1860, with the mission of training nurses to work in hospitals, to work with the poor and to teach.
Nightingale was instrumental in reforming the nature of the hospital, by improving sanitation standards and changing the image of the hospital from a place the sick would go to die, to an institution devoted to recuperation and healing. She also emphasized the importance of statistical measurement for determining the success rate of a given intervention and pushed for administrative reform at hospitals.
The National Health Service, the principal provider of health care in Britain, was founded in 1948, and took control of nearly all the hospitals.


=== Continental Europe ===
During the middle of the 19th century, the Second Viennese Medical School emerged with the contributions of physicians such as Carl Freiherr von Rokitansky, Josef Škoda, Ferdinand Ritter von Hebra, and Ignaz Philipp Semmelweis. Basic medical science expanded and specialization advanced. Furthermore, the first dermatology, eye, as well as ear, nose, and throat clinics in the world were founded in Vienna.
In Rome, where hospitality was highly patrimonial thanks to a long tradition of bequests and substantial donations (Spedalità romane), with a royal decree in 1896 the vast hospital patrimony was centralized in a single body: the Pio Istituto di Santo Spirito and Ospedali Riuniti, which thus became the largest in Europe.
By the late 19th century, the modern hospital was beginning to take shape with a proliferation of a variety of public and private hospital systems. By the 1870s, hospitals had more than tripled their original average intake of 3,000 patients. In continental Europe the new hospitals generally were built and run from public funds.


=== France ===
Nursing was professionalized in France by the turn of the 20th century. At that time, the country's 1,500 hospitals were operated by 15,000 nuns representing over 200 religious orders. Government policy after 1900 was to secularize public institutions, and diminish the role the Catholic Church. This political goal came in conflict with the need to maintain better quality of medical care in antiquated facilities. New government-operated nursing schools turned out nonreligious nurses who were slated for supervisory roles. During the First World War, an outpouring of patriotic volunteers brought large numbers of untrained middle-class women into the military hospitals. They left when the war ended but the long-term effect was to heighten the prestige of nursing. In 1922 the government issued a national diploma for nursing.
At the turn of the 19th century, Paris medicine played a significant role in shaping clinical medicine. New emphasis on physically examining the body led to methods such as percussion, inspection, palpation, auscultation, and autopsy. The situation in Paris was particularly unique due to the fact that there was a very large concentration of medical professionals in a very small setting allowing for a large flow of ideas and the spread of innovation. One of the innovations to come out of the Paris hospital setting was Laennec's stethoscope. Weiner states that the widespread acceptance of the stethoscope would likely not have happened in any other setting, and the setting allowed for Laennec to pass on this technology to the eager medical community that had gathered there. This invention also brought even more attention to the Paris scene.
Before the start of the 19th century, there were many problems existing within the French medical system. These problems were outlined by many seeking to reform hospitals including a contemporary surgeon Jacques Tenon in his book Memoirs on Paris Hospitals. Some of the problems Tenon drew attention to were the lack of space, the inability to separate patients based on the type of illness (including those that were contagious), and general sanitation problems. Additionally, the secular revolution led to the nationalization of hospitals previously owned by the Catholic Church and led to a call for a hospital reform which actually pushed for the deinstitutionalization of medicine. This contributed to the state of disarray Paris hospitals soon fell into which ultimately called for the establishment of a new hospital system outlined in the law of 1794. The law of 1794 played a significant part in revolutionizing Paris Medicine because it aimed to address some of the problems facing Paris Hospitals of the time.
First, the law of 1794 created three new schools in Paris, Montpellier, and Strasbourg due to the lack of medical professionals available to treat a growing French army. It also gave physicians and surgeons equal status in the hospital environment, whereas previously physicians were regarded as intellectually superior. This led to the integration of surgery into traditional medical education contributing to a new breed of doctors that focused on pathology, anatomy and diagnosis. The new focus on anatomy was further facilitated by this law because it ensured that medical students had enough bodies to dissect. Additionally, pathological education was furthered by the increased use of autopsies to determine a patient's cause of death. Lastly, the law of 1794 allocated funds for full-time salaried teachers in hospitals, as well as creating scholarships for medical students. Overall, the law of 1794 contributed to the shift of medical teaching away from theory and towards practice and experience, all within a hospital setting. Hospitals became a center for learning and development of medical techniques, which was a departure from the previous notion of a hospital as an area that accepted people who needed help of any kind, ill or not. This shift was consistent with much of the philosophy of the time, particularly the ideas of John Locke who preached that observation using ones senses was the best way to analyze and understand a phenomenon. Foucalt, however, criticized this shift in his book The Birth of the Clinic, stating that this shift took attention away from the patient and objectified patients, ultimately resulting in a loss of the patient's narrative. He argued that from this point forward, in the eyes of doctors, patients lost their humanity and became more like objects for inspection and examination.
The next advancement in Paris medicine came with the creation of an examination system, that after 1803, was required for the licensing of all medical professions creating a uniform and centralized system of licensing. This law also created another class of health professionals, mostly for those living outside of cities, who did not have to go through the licensing process but instead went through a simpler and shorter training process.
Another area influenced by Paris hospitals was the development of specialties. The structure of a Paris hospital allowed physicians more freedom to pursue interests as well as providing the necessary resources. An example of a physician who used this flexibility to conduct research is Phillipe Pinel who conducted a four-year study on the hospitalization and treatment of mentally-ill women within the Salpêtriére hospital. This was the first study ever done of this magnitude by a physician, and the Pinel was the first to realize that patients dealing with similar illnesses could be group together, compared, and classified.


=== Protestant hospitals ===

The Protestant churches reentered the health field in the 19th century, especially with the establishment of orders of women, called deaconesses who dedicated themselves to nursing services. This movement began in Germany in 1836 when Theodor Fliedner and his wife opened the first deaconess motherhouse in Kaiserswerth on the Rhine. It became a model, and within half a century there were over 5,000 deaconesses in Europe.  Lutheran minister  William Passavant in 1849 brought the first four deaconesses to Pittsburgh, in the United States, after visiting Kaiserswerth. They worked at the Pittsburgh Infirmary (now Passavant Hospital).
The Church of England named its first deaconess in 1862. The North London Deaconess Institution trained deaconesses for other dioceses and some served overseas.


=== China ===

Traditionally, Chinese medicine relied on small private clinics and individual healers until the middle of the 18th century when missionary hospitals operated by western churches were first established in China.  In 1870, the Tung Wah Hospital became the first hospital to offer Traditional Chinese Medicine.  After the cultural revolution in 1949, most Chinese hospitals became public.


=== United States ===

American hospitals in the 19th century were largely designed for poor people in the larger cities. There were no paying patients.  Very small proprietary hospitals were operated by practicing physicians and surgeons to take care of their own paying patients in better facilities than the charity hospitals offered. By the 1840s, the major religious denominations, especially the Catholics and Methodists, began opening hospitals in major cities. The South had small hospitals in its few cities. In the rich plantation  areas, slave owners hired physicians to keep their slaves in working shape.  In the poor white areas there were few doctors and very few hospitals.
In the U.S., the number of hospitals reached 4400 in 1910, when they provided 420,000 beds. These were operated by city, state and federal agencies, by churches, by stand-alone non-profits, and by for-profit enterprises.  Non-profit hospitals were supplemented by large public hospitals in major cities and research hospitals often affiliated with a medical school. The largest public hospital system in America is the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, which includes Bellevue Hospital, the oldest U.S. hospital, affiliated with New York University Medical School.


==== New York City ====
According to historian Mike Wallace, in the early 20th century, a significant shift occurred in New York City's private hospitals. In 1911 came the partnership of Presbyterian Hospital with Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, In 1912 New York Hospital forged its own alliance with Cornell University Medical College. These collaborations marked a pivot towards medical education and scientific research, fundamentally altering how these institutions operated and who they served.  Previously, 19th-century religious and charitable hospitals functioned much like public ones, primarily caring for the sick poor. Their focus was on care rather than cures, with little integration of medical practice. Wallace argues that the emergence of scientific medicine changed everything. Improved antiseptic practices made hospitals the ideal location for surgery, as medical advancements rendered home operations increasingly difficult. Hospitals offered doctors crucial technical resources and supported their professional independence. They also employed trained assistants, often women, who helped physicians efficiently treat more patients. This evolution solidified hospitals as central hubs for medical practice.  Despite receiving funding from corporate philanthropists for new facilities, hospitals faced escalating operational costs. To remain viable, they began targeting wealthier patients, who had previously only sought hospital care in emergencies. To attract this new clientele, hospital boards redesigned their institutions to mimic luxury hotels. For example, Roosevelt Hospital marketed its private patients' pavilion as a refined choice for individuals with "the most cultivated tastes."


==== Chicago ====

The history of hospitals in Chicago is rich with innovation, diversity, and rapid growth, reflecting the city's development as a major medical center.  Before the emergence of modern hospitals, Chicago relied on a neighborhood based dispensary system to provide medical help for poor people without charge.
Before the 1870s, hospitals had a bad reputation. Poor people went there to die, even those who were not fatally ill when they arrived. Bad sanitation on the part of doctors spread disease inside the hospital. Finally.the discovery of the germ theory of disease produced an immediate transition to concerns with sanitation. and cleanliness. After the Great Fire of 1871, Chicago's hospital system grew rapidly in response to the city's burgeoning population.  The city's first hospital was built in 1843 in response to epidemic fears. Vaccination programs for the poor began in 1848.  Specialized facilities were created for specific health crises, such as smallpox and cholera.  The expansion was characterized by steady increases of bed capacity to meet growing demand; specialization to serve specific communities and medical needs; and the development of new facilities and technologies.
In 1927 and 1928—years of peak prosperity—numerous hospitals expanded or were newly built, including Mercy Hospital (now part of Insight Hospital and Medical Center), Passavant Memorial Hospital (now part of Northwestern Memorial Hospital, and Edgewater Hospital.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       In 1916 the University of Chicago obtained funding for. an independent academic medical school effort with a teaching hospital. The facility opened in 1927 and is now the Pritzker School of Medicine.
The late 20th century saw significant changes in hospital operations and funding, By 1950, Chicago had 84 hospitals serving a population of 3.6 million. They increasingly focused on attracting paying patients with improved amenities and services. Since 1965 Medicare and Medicaid and other federal programs dramatically expanded spending on health nationwide. As the stockyards closed and old manufacturing industries faded away, health spending increasingly dominated the Chicago economy.


==== Religious hospitals ====
All the major denominations built hospitals; the 541 Catholic ones (in 1915) were staffed primarily by unpaid nuns. The others sometimes had a small cadre of deaconesses as staff. The American Methodists made medical services a priority from the 1850s. They began opening charitable institutions such as orphanages and old people's homes. In the 1880s, Methodists began opening hospitals in the United States, which served people of all religious beliefs. By 1895, 13 hospitals were in operation in major cities.
In the 1840s–1880s era, Catholics in Philadelphia founded two hospitals, for the Irish and German Catholics. They depended on revenues from the paying sick, and became important health and welfare institutions in the Catholic community. By 1900 the Catholics had set up hospitals in most major cities. In New York the Dominicans, Franciscans, Sisters of Charity, and other orders set up hospitals to care primarily for their own ethnic group. By the 1920s they were serving everyone in the neighborhood. In smaller cities too the Catholics set up hospitals, such as St. Patrick Hospital in Missoula, Montana. The Sisters of Providence opened it in 1873. It was in part funded by the county contract to care for the poor, and also operated a day school and a boarding school. The nuns provided nursing care especially for infectious diseases and traumatic injuries among the young, heavily male clientele. They also proselytized the patients to attract converts and restore lapsed Catholics back into the Church. They built a larger hospital in 1890. Catholic hospitals were largely staffed by Catholic orders of nuns, and nursing students, until the population of nuns dropped sharply after the 1960s. The Catholic Hospital Association formed in 1915.


== Integration of new technology and advancements ==


=== Anesthetics ===

A major change to procedures in the medical field was the introduction of anesthetics used to put patients to sleep. While the use of anesthetics was first introduced in the 19th century, it became a favorable and widely used practice due to its ability to incapacitate a patient and make operations easier and less painful. This, in turn, made operations such as amputations less fatal, because patients would stay still as well as not be in shock and lose less blood while being operated on.
On November 7, 1846, the first amputation using a form of anesthesia called ether anesthesia was performed. This anesthetic was called letheon and was created by a dentist, Dr. William Morton. This new, ether based anesthetic was administered to Alice Mohan in an amputation procedure to, first, subdue her during the amputation and second, to test the effects of the new letheon. After being given to Alice Mohan, the anesthetic reportedly only took three minutes to take full effect. The amputation was carried out with little reaction from Alice Mohan, and she seemed completely unaffected by pain and outside stimuli until a static nerve was cut, when a small cry was noticed. There was also only a small amount of blood lost during the operation.


==== Antisepsis ====
Another big change to the medical world was the introduction of the idea of germ theory. Germ theory is the idea that disease is caused by microscopic living organisms being introduced to the body. Joseph Lister was able to apply germ theory to medical practice and tried to show that germ theory should be taken seriously. This was not widely accepted at first due to the fact that Lister was determining that airborne germs were infecting open wounds, and it was not believed that this could be a single cause of infection. Through experimentation, Louis Pasteur was able to determine that living organisms are the cause of fermentation, and demonstrated that the spread and growth of septicemia was dependent on a living microorganism. Joseph Lister applied this idea to surgeries and used a carbolic acid solution to attempt to sterilize anything that would be on our around a wound. This method proved to be successful when Lister pointed out that, despite his patients, in most cases, being in a tighter space than standard wards, there was still a very low infection rate among them since he began using his methods.


== 20th century ==

Following the rapid growth of American cities in the 1870s, demand for centralized care rose and with it came fourth voluntary hospitals. Inspired by religion or charity, voluntary hospitals became admired for their nobility. Being private, financial support was drawn from politicians and businessmen hoping to earn favor from the public for their generosity. With the capacity to expand, hospitals began to compete for patients in part through a greater number of services using advancements in medical technology made in 20th century.


=== Integration of new technology and advancements ===


==== X-ray ====
In the year after the discovery of x-ray in 1895, many experiments were conducted to serve medical results including during a surgery by John Hall-Edwards and over a fracture in Eddie McCarthy's wrist by Gilman and Edward Frost. Hospitals all over the world grabbed onto the new technology. In January 1896, the Glasgow Royal Infirmary in Scotland is credited with having the first radiology department, headed by Dr. John Macintyre. In America, the Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia purchased an X-ray machine in 1897.


== See also ==
Byzantine medicine
History of medicine
History of public health in the United States
History of public health in the United Kingdom
List of the oldest hospitals in the United States
Medieval medicine of Western Europe
Nursing
Timeline of nursing history
Timeline of medicine and medical technology


== References ==


== Further reading ==


=== General ===
Bowers, Barbara S. (2007). Medieval Hospital and Medical Practice. Ashgate Publishing. ISBN 978-0754651109.
Brockliss, Lawrence, and Colin Jones. "The Hospital in the Enlightenment," in The Medical World of Early Modern France (Oxford UP, 1997), pp. 671–729; covers France 1650–1800
Chaney, Edward (2000),"'Philanthropy in Italy': English Observations on Italian Hospitals 1545–1789", in: The Evolution of the Grand Tour: Anglo-Italian Cultural Relations since the Renaissance, 2nd ed. London, Routledge, 2000. Google books
Davis, Adam J. The Medieval Economy of Salvation: Charity, Commerce and the Rise of the Hospital (Cornell Univ. Press, 2019)
Goldin, Grace (1975). Hospital: A Social and Architectural History. Yale U. P. (scholarly)
Goldin, Grace (1994). Work of Mercy: A Picture History of Hospitals., popular
Gorsky, Martin; Vilar-Rodríguez, Margarita; Pons-Pons, Jerònia, eds. (2020). The Political Economy of the Hospital in History. University of Huddersfield Press.
Douglas Guthrie (1945). A History Of Medicine. BRAOU, Digital Library Of India. Thomas Nelson And Sons Ltd London.
Harrison, Mark, ed. (2008). From Western Medicine to Global Medicine: The Hospital Beyond the West.
Henderson, John, ed. (2007). The Impact of Hospitals 300–2000., 426 pages, 16 essays by scholars table of contents
Henderson, John (2006). The Renaissance Hospital: Healing the Body and Healing the Soul.
Horden, Peregrine (2008). Hospitals and Healing From Antiquity to the Later Middle Ages.
Jones, Colin (1990). The Charitable Imperative: Hospitals and Nursing in Ancient Regime and Revolutionary France.
Kisacky, Jeanne (2017). Rise of the Modern Hospital: An Architectural History of Health and Healing, 1870–1940. U of Pittsburgh Press.
McGrew, Roderick E., ed. (1985). Encyclopedia of Medical History.
Morelon, Régis and Roshdi Rashed, ed. (1996). Encyclopedia of the History of Arabic Science.
Porter, Roy; Granshaw, Lindsay (1989). The Hospital in History. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-00375-9.
Risse, Guenter B. (1999). Mending Bodies, Saving Souls: A History of Hospitals. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0199748691., 752pp; world coverage summary
Scheutz, Martin, ed. (2009). Hospitals and Institutional Care in Medieval and Early Modern Europe.


=== Nursing ===
Bullough, Vern L. and Bullough, Bonnie. The Care of the Sick: The Emergence of Modern Nursing (1978).
D'Antonio, Patricia. American Nursing: A History of Knowledge, Authority, and the Meaning of Work (2010), 272 pp
Davies, Celia, ed. Rewriting Nursing History (1980),
Dingwall, Robert, Anne Marie Rafferty, Charles Webster. An Introduction to the Social History of Nursing (Routledge, 1988)
Dock, Lavinia Lloyd. A Short history of nursing from the earliest times to the present day (1920) full text online; abbreviated version of M. Adelaide Nutting and Dock, A History of Nursing (4 vol 1907); vol 1 online; vol 3 online
Donahue, M. Patricia. Nursing, The Finest Art: An Illustrated History (3rd ed. 2010), includes over 400 illustrations; 416pp;
Fairman, Julie and Joan E. Lynaugh. Critical Care Nursing: A History (2000)
Hutchinson, John F. Champions of Charity: War and the Rise of the Red Cross (1996) 448 pp.
Judd, Deborah. A History of American Nursing: Trends and Eras (2009) 272pp
Lewenson, Sandra B., and Eleanor Krohn Herrmann. Capturing Nursing History: A Guide to Historical Methods in Research (2007)
Reverby, Susan (1987). "A caring dilemma: Womanhood and nursing in historical perspective". Nursing Research. 36 (1): 5–11. doi:10.1097/00006199-198701000-00003. PMID 3543850.
Schultheiss, Katrin. Bodies and souls: politics and the professionalization of nursing in France, 1880–1922 (Harvard U.P., 2001) full text online at ACLS e-books
Snodgrass, Mary Ellen. Historical Encyclopedia of Nursing (2004), 354 pp; from ancient times to the present
Takahashi, Aya. The Development of the Japanese Nursing Profession: Adopting and Adapting Western Influences (Routledgecurzon, 2011)


=== Hospitals in Britain ===
Abel-Smith, Brian. The Hospitals 1800–1948: A Study in Social Administration in England and Wales (1964) online
Abel-Smith, Brian. A History of the Nursing Profession (1960) online
Bostridge. Mark. Florence Nightingale: The Making of an Icon (2008)
Carruthers, G. Barry. History of Britain's Hospitals (2005) * Cherry, Stephen. Medical Services and the Hospital in Britain, 1860–1939 (1996)
Gorsky, Martin. "The British National Health Service 1948–2008: A Review of the Historiography," Social History of Medicine, Dec 2008, Vol. 21 Issue 3, pp. 437–460
Helmstadter, Carol, and Judith Godden, eds. Nursing before Nightingale, 1815–1899 (Surrey, UK: Ashgate, 2011) 219 pp. on England
Nelson, Sioban, and Ann Marie Rafferty, eds. Notes on Nightingale: The Influence and Legacy of a Nursing Icon (2010) 172 pp.
Reinarz, Jonathan. "Health Care in Birmingham: The Birmingham Teaching Hospitals, 1779–1939" (Woodbridge: Boydell Press, 2009)
Sweet, Helen. "Establishing Connections, Restoring Relationships: Exploring the Historiography of Nursing in Britain," Gender and History, Nov 2007, Vol. 19 Issue 3, pp. 565–80


=== Hospitals in North America ===
Agnew, G. Harvey. Canadian Hospitals, 1920 to 1970, A Dramatic Half Century (University of Toronto Press, 1974)
Bonner, Thomas Neville. Medicine in Chicago: 1850–1950 (1957). pp. 147–74.
Cadge, Wendy. Paging God: Religion in the halls of medicine (University of Chicago Press, 2012) online.
Connor, J. T. H. (1990). "Hospital History in Canada and the United States". Canadian Bulletin of Medical History. 7 (1): 93–104. doi:10.3138/cbmh.7.1.93. PMID 11622358.
Crawford, D.S. "Bibliography of Histories of Canadian hospitals and schools of nursing".
D'Antonio, Patricia. American Nursing: A History of Knowledge, Authority, and the Meaning of Work (2010), 272 pp
Fairman, Julie and Joan E. Lynaugh. Critical Care Nursing: A History (2000)
Hine, Darlene Clark, John McCluskey, and David Barry Gaspar, eds. Black women in white (Indiana University Press, 2020), African American nurses..
Judd, Deborah. A History of American Nursing: Trends and Eras (2009) 272 pp
Kalisch, Philip Arthur, and Beatrice J. Kalisch. The Advance of American Nursing (2nd ed. 1986); retitled as American Nursing: A History (4th ed. 2003), the standard history
McPadden, A. "History of Hospitals: 1500 to the Present." New Catholic Encyclopedia (2003) online
Reverby, Susan M. Ordered to Care: The Dilemma of American Nursing, 1850–1945 (1987)
Rosenberg, Charles E. The Care of Strangers: The Rise of America's Hospital System (1995) history to 1920 online
Rosenberg, Charles E. "The origins of the American hospital system." Bulletin of the New York Academy of Medicine 55.1 (1979): 10+. online
Rosenberg, Charles E. "And heal the sick: The hospital and the patient in the 19th century America." Journal of Social History 10.4 (1977): 428-447. online
Rosner, David. A Once Charitable Enterprise: Hospitals and Health Care in Brooklyn and New York 1885–1915 (1982) online
Starr, Paul. The Social Transformation of American Medicine: The rise of a sovereign profession and the making of a vast industry (1984) ; influential survey
Stevens, Rosemary. In Sickness and in Wealth: American Hospitals in the Twentieth Century (1999) full text in ACLS e-books
Vogel, Morris J. The Invention of the Modern Hospital: Boston 1870–1930 (1985)
Wall, Barbra Mann.  Unlikely Entrepreneurs: Catholic Sisters and the Hospital Marketplace, 1865–1925 (2005)
Wall, Barbra Mann. American Catholic Hospitals: A Century of Changing Markets and Missions (2010)

Linux is a family of computer operating systems based on the Linux kernel.
Linux may also refer to:

9885 Linux, an asteroid
Linux distribution, an operating system made as a collection of software based on the Linux kernel
Linux kernel, an operating system kernel


== See also ==
List of Linux distributions

The Parmelee House is a historic house at 4 Beckwith Road in Killingworth, Connecticut.  It was built about 1770 for a member of one of the area's founding families, and is architecturally important as an example of a farm outbuilding converted to a residence during the 18th century.  It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2007.


== Description and history ==
The Parmelee House is located in a rural setting of western Killingworth, facing west on the east side of Beckwith Road, a short way south of Connecticut Route 148.  It is a 2+1⁄2-story wood-frame structure, five bays wide, with a side-gable roof and a central chimney.  Because it is set in a hill, it only has a single-story at the rear. Although it has a conventional colonial appearance, the house is architecturally distinctive for the period, with an atypical floor plan that is partly a consequence of using what would normally be the basement as a living space.
The house was apparently built c. 1770 by Ezra Parmelee, descended from one of the area's first colonial settlers.  The building's structure suggests that it may have been built originally as a three-bay bank barn; the fireplace styles are suggestive of post-Revolutionary War construction, indicating the conversion took place in the late 1780s.  There is no mention of a house on the property in a sale recorded in 1770, but a house is present in 1787. The property remained in the hands of Parmelee descendants for most of the years between then and 1928.  The property also includes a c. 1880 barn.


== See also ==
National Register of Historic Places listings in Middlesex County, Connecticut


== References ==

Jovica "Jovo" Simanić (Serbian Cyrillic: Јовица "Јово" Симанић; born 8 August 1965) is a Serbian former professional footballer who played as a central defender.


== Career ==
Born in Zrenjanin in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Simanić started and ended his 11-year professional career with hometown club Proleter Zrenjanin, scoring 16 goals, but also played abroad in Germany and Portugal. In January 1992, he joined VfB Stuttgart, appearing almost exclusively for the reserve team. On 30 September 1992, in his only appearance for the main squad, a UEFA Champions League play-off match against Leeds United, he was introduced in the last minutes of a 4–1 away loss by manager Christoph Daum, causing Stuttgart to play with one foreign player too many; the Germans would have won on the away goals rule but, after being punished with a 3–0 defeat instead, the two teams had to play a third match, which ended 2–1 for the English side.
Simanić then represented Benfica, being called to the bench twice and Boavista in six Primeira Liga games, after which he competed in the country's second (Famalicão) and third divisions for Ovarense. He returned to his country aged 32 and played for Proleter, retiring from football three years later.


== References ==


== External links ==
Jovo Simanić at fussballdaten.de (in German)
Jovo Simanić at ForaDeJogo (archived)

The Statement of Information Relating to Acts of Violence was a White Paper published by the British Government on 24 July 1946. It was published as a request of the Prime Minister following the British Operation Agatha on 29 June 1946. Although it was published two days after the King David hotel bombing, it had been prepared prior to that event.
The paper set out details of the Jewish insurgency in Mandatory Palestine, including evidence that the Jewish Agency had been complicit with the terrorist groups. A telegram had been intercepted, including codenames, one of which "Hayyim" was understood to be Chaim Weizmann.


== References ==

Henry Garrett may refer to:

Henry Garrett (psychologist) (1894–1973), American psychologist and segregationist
Henry Garrett (actor) (fl. 2007), English actor
Henry Beresford Garrett (1818–1885), New Zealand cooper and criminal
Henry L. Garrett III (born 1939), U.S. Secretary of the Navy
Hank Garrett (born 1931), American actor and comedian

Zemiansky Vrbovok (Hungarian: Nemesvarbók) is a village and municipality in the Krupina District of the Banská Bystrica Region of Slovakia.
In the 17th century it was the property of the Cseszneky family and according to some sources Erzsébet Cseszneky, benefactress of the Lutheran Church and mother of Mátyás Bél also was born in the village.


== Geography ==
The municipality lies at an altitude of 414 metres (1,358 ft) and covers an area of 8.40 km2 (3.24 sq mi) (2025).


== Population ==

It has a population of 78 people (31 December 2025).


=== Ethnicity ===
In year 2021 was  78 people by ethnicity  75 as Slovak and  3 as Not found out.
Note on population: The difference values of population numbers in the table "Population statistic" and in the sections "Ethnicity" & "Religion" is caused by the use of various statistical methods.


=== Religion ===
In year 2021 was 78 people by religion  40 from Roman Catholic Church,  21 from Evangelical Church,  10 from None,  4 from Paganism and natural spirituality and  3 from Not found out.


== References ==

Denim & Diamonds is the fourth studio album by American country musician Nikki Lane. It was released on September 23, 2022, by New West Records.


== Background ==
On June 2, 2022, Nikkie Lane announced she was releasing her fourth studio album, with Queens of the Stone Age founder Josh Homme as the producer and mixer. Along with the announcement, Lane released the first single "First High".


== Critical reception ==
Denim & Diamonds was met with "universal acclaim" reviews from critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream publications, this release received an average score of 81, based on 7 reviews.
Writing for American Songwriter, Hal Horwitz explained the release "shows Nikki Lane at her best, stepping towards a darker direction while keeping one foot planted in the country and roots music of her past." Allison Hussey of Pitchfork wrote, "the songwriter's fourth album attempts to subvert the should-bes of a woman making a country record."


== Track listing ==


== Personnel ==


== Charts ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Denim & Diamonds at Discogs (list of releases)
Denim & Diamonds at MusicBrainz (list of releases)

Dipchasphecia is a genus of moths in the family Sesiidae.


== Species ==
Dipchasphecia altaica Gorbunov, 1991
Dipchasphecia consobrina (Le Cerf, 1938)
Dipchasphecia intermedia Špatenka, 1997
Dipchasphecia iskander Gorbunov, 1994
Dipchasphecia kashgarensis Špatenka & Kallies, 2001
Dipchasphecia kopica Gorbunov & Špatenka, 2001
Dipchasphecia krocha Gorbunov, 1991
Dipchasphecia kurdaica Špatenka, Petersen & Kallies, 1997
Dipchasphecia lanipes (Lederer, 1863)
Dipchasphecia ljusiae Gorbunov, 1991
Dipchasphecia naumanni Gorbunov, 1991
Dipchasphecia nigra Gorbunov, 1991
Dipchasphecia pudorina (Staudinger, 1881)
Dipchasphecia rhodocnemis Gorbunov, 1991
Dipchasphecia roseiventris (Bartel, 1912)
Dipchasphecia sertavula Bartsch & Špatenka, 2002
Dipchasphecia turkmena Gorbunov, 1994


== References ==

Patrice Ernita "Penni" McClammy is an American attorney and politician serving as a member of the Alabama House of Representatives from the 76th district. She assumed office on November 17, 2021. She a member of the Democratic Party.


== Early life and education ==
A native of Montgomery, Alabama, McClammy attended Sidney Lanier High School. She earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science from Hampton University in 1997, an Associate of Arts in legal studies from Faulkner University in 1999, a Juris Doctor from the Thomas Goode Jones School of Law in 2002, and a PhD in public policy and administration from Florida State University in 2006.


== Career ==
Outside of politics, McClammy operates a private legal practice. After her father, Thad McClammy, died in office, Patrice declared her candidacy to succeed him. She did not face a challenger in the general election and assumed office on November 17, 2021.


== References ==

The Miami Inferno was a professional indoor football team which was a member of the Ultimate Indoor Football League (UIFL). Based in Coral Gables, Florida, the Inferno played some of their home games at the BankUnited Center on the campus of the University of Miami. They were the latest indoor/arena football team to play in the Miami area after the Miami Hooters Florida Bobcats of the Arena Football League, who played from 1993 to 2001. Cade Kretuer, son of Chad Kreuter was made back up QB prior to the start of the 2014 season. The Inferno were owned by Chad and Amber Dittman. The UIFL suspended the Miami Inferno on July 12, 2014. All remaining games of the 2014 season were forfeited.


== Head coaches ==


== Season-by-season results ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official site of the Miami Inferno

Deen Dayal Mobile Health Clinic is a program in Madhya Pradesh, India that uses mobile health clinics to provide medical care to rural and disadvantaged populations.
Each van is GPS-enabled and is staffed with a doctor, nurse, lab attendant and pharmacist. The vans, or Mobile Medical Units (MMUs), were operational in 1998 under the name Jeewan Jyoti Yojana, although the program relaunched in 2006 under its current name
Dr. Jyotirmoy Roy was first incharge and Project Devoloper of MHU NRHM  Dr. Jyotirmoy Roy was the First' MO of MHU .


== References ==

Bryocamptus is a genus of copepods belonging to the family Canthocamptidae.
The species of this genus are found in Eurasia and North America.


== Species ==
The following species are recognised in the genus Bryocamptus:

Bryocamptus arcticus
Bryocamptus minutus
Bryocamptus pygmaeus
Bryocamptus vejdovskyi


== References ==

The Vulture crown was an ancient Egyptian crown worn by Great Royal Wives and female pharaohs. It was depicted as a headdress in the shape of a vulture draped over the head, with its wings hanging down on the sides. It was a symbol of protection associated with the vulture goddess Nekhbet, who often wore this crown when depicted in a human form. These crowns were frequently worn by the Great Royal Wife, high ranking priestesses, and female pharaohs. These crowns were also sometimes equipped with the Uraeus to symbolize Wadjet, representing both Upper (Nekhbet) and Lower Egypt (Wadjet).


== History ==
The vulture crown was initially only seen in depictions of goddesses. From the Fifth Dynasty onwards, however, queens began to wear the headdress regularly as part of their iconography. The association of Nekhbet with the queen stemmed from the vulture's symbolism of motherhood; the hieroglyph for the vulture, mwt, was used to write the word for "mother". Because Nekhbet was a protector goddess, the queen's affiliation with her complemented the king's role as the embodiment of the falcon god Horus.
Khentkaus II was one of the first queens to wear the vulture headdress. In the New Kingdom, the vulture's head on the crown was more frequently replaced by the uraeus.  


== Gallery ==


== References ==

Rade Rakonjac (1962 – 2 April 2014) was the bodyguard of Serbian war criminal Željko Ražnatović, a close friend of the Zemun Clan mafia boss Luka Bojović, and a colonel in the Serbian Volunteer Guard. He was murdered in 2014.
Following the assassination of Serbia's Prime Minister Zoran Đinđić on 12 March 2003, Rakonjac was among those arrested during Operation Sablja. Although he had strong connections to the Serbian mafia, Rakonjac was never officially convicted of any major crime. His only charge during his lifetime was for the illegal possession of a firearm.
Rakonjac served as groomsman to Ražnatović during his 1995 wedding to Ceca.


== Murder ==
On 1 April 2014, Rakonjac was sitting in front of the cafe "Marika" in Belgrade near his home when a masked assailant fired at him from a moving vehicle. The car was later found burned in the Belgrade neighborhood Voždovac. Rakonjac, who was shot in the neck and chest, died of his injuries the following day at the Military Medical Academy. Two other people with ties to Arkan were also injured in the shooting: Goran Ristanović, a basketball manager, and Stojan Novaković, described by the newspaper Novosti as "Ceca's groomsman" in her 1995 wedding to Željko Ražnatović.
It was noted by regional media that Rakonjac was killed two days after the information about new evidence came to light that suggests that the 2000 murder of Željko Ražnatović ("Arkan") had a politically driven motive. A witness whose identity is not publicly known claimed that Arkan's murder was ordered by the Yugoslav government for Arkan's meetings with Western officials to overthrow Milošević. Police investigated whether this testimony had anything to do with Rakonjac's murder.
Rakonjac was buried 5 April 2014 in Belgrade's New Cemetery. The identity of his murderer is still a mystery as of April 2015.


== References ==

The 2021 season was Petaling Jaya City FC's 18th season since its establishment in 2004. The club participated in the Malaysia Super League for the 3rd time since 2019.


== Players ==

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


== Transfers ==


=== Transfers in ===


=== Transfers to ===


== Squad statistics ==


=== Appearances and goals ===
As of 9 November 2021


== Competitions ==


=== Malaysia Super League ===
 


==== League table ====


==== Matches ====
  Win
  Draw
  Loss


=== Malaysia Cup ===


==== Group stage ====

The draw for the group stage was held on 15 September 2021.


== References ==

Zeljko Babic (born 3 April 1976), also known as Sean Babic, is a former association football player in the now defunct National Soccer League in Australia. He represented Australia in two senior games.


== References ==

Attentional bias is the tendency for a person's perception to be affected by selective factors in their attention. Attentional biases may explain an individual's failure to consider alternative possibilities when occupied with an existing train of thought. For example, cigarette smokers have been shown to possess an attentional bias for smoking-related cues around them, due to their brain's altered reward sensitivity. Attentional bias has also been associated with clinically relevant symptoms such as anxiety and depression.


== In decision making ==
A commonly studied experiment to test for attentional bias is one in which there are two variables, a factor (A) and a result (B). Both can be either present (P) or not present (N). This results in four possible combinations:

Both the factor and result are present (AP/BP)
Both the factor and result are not present (AN/BN)
While the factor is present, the result is not (AP/BN)
While the result is present, the factor is not (AN/BP)
The four combinations can be shown in table form as follows:

A common question which follows the structure of the above experiment is: "Does God answer prayers?" Due to attentional bias, theists tend to say "yes". They focus on the present/present (A/B) cell, as their religious beliefs in a deity cause them to fixate on the occasions when they were given what they asked for, thus they use the justification: "Many times I've asked God for something, and he's given it to me." Similarly, due to attentional bias, atheists equally tunnel on data from the present/absent (A/B', A'/B) cells: "Has God ever given me something that I didn't ask for?" or "Have I asked God for something and didn't receive it?" This experiment too supports Smedslund's general conclusion that subjects tend to ignore part of the table depending on their specific attentional biases.
The scenarios can be illustrated below in a similar table to above:

When making decisions, attentional biases toward positive stimuli have been associated with numerous positive outcomes, such as increased social engagement, increased prosocial behaviour, decreased externalizing disorders, and decreased emotionally withdrawn behavior. In contrast, individuals with clinically relevant symptoms, such as anxiety disorder and chronic pain are shown to prioritize threat cues over reward cues. In one experiment, faces with varying valences were presented (neutral, threatening, and happy) with a forced-choice reaction time at two exposure durations, 500 and 1250msec. For individuals with high trait anxiety, there was strong evidence for an attentional bias favoring threatening facial expressions. Additionally, increased dysphoria correlated with the tendency to avoid happy faces. This tendency leads to a spiraling effect, as one will only see negative faces, which induces greater anxiety, which exacerbates the aforementioned tendency to avoid positive stimuli – a form of the vigilance-avoidance pattern.
Notably, there is also a difference in attention biases between anxious and depressed individuals. Word pairs were shown to the subjects, with a dot probe following a word of each pair (dot probe paradigm). One-half of the word pairs were presented on the subliminal level, and the other half were presented on the supraliminal level, and then the response time was measured. As expected, the anxious and depressed groups showed an attentional bias towards negative words compared to the normal control group. On a supraliminal level, the depressed group showed greater vigilance for threat stimuli than the anxious group. However, for subliminal threat stimuli, the anxious group showed a greater vigilance, which implies an anxiety-related bias on the subconscious level.


== In addictive behaviour ==
Research from the past two decades has established that addictive behaviour is strongly correlated to the attentional bias for substance-related cues, in how the latter characterizes the former. An example of this is smoking and smoking-related cues.
Research (using the Stroop paradigm) tested the effect of mixing smoking related words (cigarette, puff, and smoke) with: negative connoting words (sick, pain and guilty), positive connoting words, (safe, glad, and hopeful) and neutral connoting words (tool, shovel, and hammer). Results showed a strong correlation between a slower reaction time and the degree of negative language employed when discussing smoking. The results indicate attentional bias, suggesting the influence negative language has had on the individual attitude towards smoking. When asked to think of the negative consequences of smoking, as the negative language evoked underlying negative feelings toward smoking, they displayed fewer cravings than the smoker subjects who were encouraged to smoke. The experiment illustrates the influence of attentional bias on environmental smoking cues and how these could contribute to a smokers' inability to quit. As stated earlier individuals' attentional biases are influenced by subliminal stimuli, so in the smoker's case, they are more subject to substance-related stimuli such as observing other smokers or noticing ads for cigarettes. The stimuli evoke expectancy of substance availability, which creates a further attentional bias for substance-related stimuli and induces craving for the substance.
Similar Stroop paradigm studies have concluded that attentional bias is not dependent on smoking itself, but rather the person who is the smoker displays attentional bias. A recent study required one group of smokers to refrain from smoking the night before and another less than an hour before. Abstinence from smoking created a slower reaction time, but a smoke break between study sessions showed increased reaction time. Researchers say this shows that nicotine dependence intensifies attention, but does not directly depend on smoking itself due to lack of evidence. The longer reaction time suggests smokers craving a cigarette linger on smoking-related words. Smokers and smokers attempting to quit displayed the same slower reaction time for smoking-related words, which supports research that implies attentional bias is a behavioral mechanism versus a dependency mechanism, due to the fact that the smokers were slowed down by smoking-related words and negative words, but not slowed down by positive and neutral words.
Drug addiction is also an example of attentional bias in that certain memories or objects can prompt intense cravings for one's drug of choice. It is easier for individuals who experience this to relapse and begin their drug use again, because the urges given off by that initial stimuli can prove to be too strong to curb. There are some ways that individuals could overcome attentional bias, and a solution is stimuli-related therapy. This type of therapy would give those struggling with addiction and relapse an opportunity to overcome the initial fear associated with a particular object. A study conducted by a group of researchers in the Netherlands found that by giving participants an opportunity to attend therapy sessions during their treatment for drug addiction, more participants remained drug-free compared to those who relapsed. Therefore, the conclusion can be drawn that with exposure therapy, the number of patients who will leave a treatment facility and relapse decreases. The Stroop Test also showed in this study that between the control group and the treatment group the only major component of the test was time; researchers made the claim that those who received treatment reacted a lot faster to certain drug-related stimuli versus those in the control group who did not. This means that when experiencing attentional bias, treated addicts seemed to brush off the memories a little easier compared to those who had not received proper treatment. In other words, certain steps need to be taken in treatment facilities across the country to ensure that drug addiction no longer rises, or continues to ruin people's lives. Also, a therapy of this kind should be closely monitored and mandatory to ensure the smallest number of relapses occur after treatment.


== In body image disturbance ==
There is evidence that people with body image disturbance show attentional biases related to body size and food. For example, people with anorexia nervosa tend to direct their attention disproportionately towards thin bodies. Attentional bias towards thin bodies has also been reported in non-clinical samples, with individuals with higher levels of body dissatisfaction disproportionately attending to thin bodies.


== Measurements ==
There are two different forms of attentional bias that can be measured:

Within-subject bias
When there is a significant difference between an anxious individuals' attention bias towards threat-related stimuli and attention bias towards neutral stimuli (which usually favors threat-related stimuli)
Between-subject bias
When there is a significant difference between non-anxious and anxious individuals' attention bias towards and neutral stimuli and threat-related stimuli


=== Measurement paradigms ===
There are four main paradigms used to measure attentional bias:

Stroop paradigm
The Stroop paradigm was the first measure of attentional bias. It also uses reaction time, only in this case utilizing colors. The subject would have to read the color of the word (e.g. brown), however, the name of the word would be a different color (e.g. red). Variations involve the opposite, where one would have to read the name of the word, but the color of the word would differ.
Dot-probe paradigm
The dot-probe paradigm/task is the gold standard in attentional bias research, considered an upgraded version of the dot-probe paradigm. Two stimuli of difference valences are presented simultaneously for a fixed time. Then, a probe replaces one of the two stimuli, which the participants have to respond to – by classifying the probe or responding to the location.
Posner paradigm
The Posner paradigm or Posner cueing task is similar to the dot-probe paradigm. It is a sight test, which assesses the individual's ability to switch and focus on different stimuli presented. The subject focuses on a specific point, then attempts to react as quickly as possible to target stimuli presented to the sides of the specified point.
Visual search paradigm
The visual search is a less used method of assessing attentional bias. It involves measuring one's ability to spot and discern particular objects among other objects.
While the other options are valid methods, they all tap into different aspects of attention bias. Because of this, some methods are less used when looking into specific aspects of attentional bias. For example, in a posner cueing task, the cues were either a neutral, angry or happy, facial expression. There were both valid (targets appearing in the same location as the cue/face) and invalid trials (The target appearing in a different location to the cue/face). Surprisingly enough, in the invalid tests, individuals' response times increased to the same degree of attentional bias for both negative stimuli and positive stimuli, contrary to hundreds of other studies.


== Mechanisms ==
On a scientific level, attentional bias often seen in eye-tracking movements is thought to be an underlying issue of addiction. Smokers linger on smoking cues compared with neutral cues. Researchers found higher activation in the insular cortex, the orbitofrontal cortex and the amygdala when presented with smoking cues. The orbitofrontal cortex is known to be coordinated with drug-seeking behavior and the insular cortex and amygdala are involved in the autonomic and emotional state of an individual.
Neural activity is also known to decrease upon the beginning of smoking, focusing the smokers' attention on their upcoming cigarette. Therefore, when smoking cues are nearby it is harder for a smoker to concentrate on other tasks. This is seen in the activation of the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex, known for focusing attention on relevant stimuli.
However, beyond this, the mechanisms of attentional bias is an uncertain area, as there are many conflicting theories on how attentional biases operate. An initial theory was schema theory, in which it was believed schema was biased towards threats, thus threat-related material is always favored in cognitive thinking. Conversely, other individuals have argued that humans are prone to attentional biases at certain points of information processing, which is now a more common topic of controversy.
Psychologist J. Mark G. Williams and colleagues have argued that anxious individuals tend to prioritize threat stimuli during early information processing, and direct their attention away from threats in more strategic stages of processing. This correlates with the vigilance-avoidance pattern, which is when one initially directs attention to threat, however then proceeds to avoid processing details and information in order to avoid an anxious state of mind. Conversely, others theorize that anxiety has little impact on initial detection of threats but has is more significant in modulating the maintenance of attention on the source of the threat. This can be explained by the alternative theory to the vigilance-avoidance pattern, which is that anxious individuals, once processing the threat, struggle to disengage attention from the threat stimuli due to reasons such as fear.
Regardless of the opinions, there have been numerous studies which attempt to find the ultimate explanation. However, there have been results which support both theories, thus making the mechanisms of attention bias an uncertain topic.


== Variables ==


=== Time ===
In one study, stimulus exposure duration was tested against attentional bias for threat stimuli (for non-clinical anxiety). Individuals were given exposure durations of 100, 500, and 1500 millisecond intervals. However, there seemed to be no significant change in the bias towards threat stimuli. The experiment has yet to be tested for clinical anxiety.


=== Neurocognitive function ===
A study also explored the negative relationship between neurocognitive function and attentional bias. Individuals with a lower capacity in the attentional domain, particularly in digit symbol coding, exhibited more attentional bias toward threats.


== Clinical applications ==
The link between attentional biases and addictions illustrate how controlling attentional processes may be essential in assisting smokers who are trying to quit. However, this is not dealt with, as in the case of the United Kingdom (UK), the Stop Smoking Services (SSS) and National Health Service (NHS) both have yet to target attentional biases in their smoking cessation programs.
Individuals with clinically relevant symptoms, such as anxiety disorders and chronic pain are shown to initially focus on threatening information. However, there is still uncertainty regarding the causes of this relationship. Two studies explored the causes by using a modified dot-probe paradigm and experimentally inducing differential attentional responses to emotional stimuli and then noting the effect on the consequential emotional vulnerability. The results confirmed how inducing attentional bias can alter emotional vulnerability, thus introducing the possibility that cognitive-experimental procedures designed around these results have potential therapeutic value in the future.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Baron, Jonathan. (2000). Thinking and Deciding (3d edition). Cambridge University Press.
Smith, N.K.; Chartrand, T.L.; Larsen, J.T.; Cacioppo, J.T.; Katafiasz, HA; Moran, KE (2006). "Being bad isn't always good: Affective context moderates the attention bias towards negative information" (PDF). Journal of Personality and Social Psychology. 90 (2): 210–220. doi:10.1037/0022-3514.90.2.210. PMID 16536647. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2009-09-20. Retrieved 2009-07-16.

Frank Tiberi (born December 4, 1928) is an American saxophonist and the leader of the Woody Herman Orchestra. He was born in Camden, New Jersey, United States. He was named successor by Woody Herman shortly before Herman's death, and Tiberi has led the band since 1987.
He plays the alto and tenor saxophone, bassoon, clarinet, and flute. He has been performing and recording since age 13. Tiberi toured with Benny Goodman and Urbie Green, and he played with Dizzy Gillespie. He had a period in the late-1960s when he was a studio musician, although by 1969 he was hired as Herman's lead saxophone soloist. He remained in that role until Herman's death, sometimes taking over his duties when ill-health affected Herman in his later years.
Tiberi is a professor at Berklee College of Music, where he teaches improvisational techniques and pedagogy. He served as director for the Camden Jazz Festival in New Jersey. He specializes in modern and contemporary jazz techniques and has released eponymous albums and with fellow Berklee instructor, George Garzone.
During the early-1960s, Tiberi became interested in John Coltrane and his developing style of playing, investing in a reel-to-reel tape recorder to record Coltrane's performances at venues across Philadelphia and New York City. He used these recordings to transcribe Coltrane's solos, study his playing, and teach his students. The tapes amounted to more than 60 hours of music, and their existence had remained largely elusive for decades; however, it was announced that the tapes would be released in September 2026 as part of Coltrane's centennial. In April 2026, a single LP preview titled The Tiberi Tapes: A Preview of the Mythic Recordings was released for Record Store Day.


== Discography ==
Tiberian Mode (1999)
4 Brothers 7 (2007)
Audacity (2012)


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Faculty bio at Berklee College of Music

The tubarial salivary glands, also known as the tubarial glands, are a pair of salivary glands found in humans between the nasal cavity and throat.


== Description ==
The tubarial glands (TGs) are located in the nasopharynx. They are situated proximal to the eustachian tube, superior to the soft palate and posterior to the inferior nasal conchae. The tubarial glands overlay the torus tubarius region and are found on the dorsolateral or posterior lateral wall of the nasopharynx, extending from the skull base down on the inner side of the superior constrictor muscle.
The tubarial glands are difficult to visualize on standard radiological images like MRI, appearing as shadowy regions of soft tissue. However,  they can be visualized clearly using prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) positron emission tomography—computed tomography (PET/CT).


== History ==

The glands were discovered by a group of Dutch scientists at the Netherlands Cancer Institute in September 2020 using PET/CT scans.


== Significance ==
Tubarial glands are packed with predominantly mucinous acini and can release mucinous fluid that coats and moistens the mucosal surface of the pharynx. Due to their location at the posterior-superior aspect of the nasopharynx, they serve as a "spout" of glandular tissue that can effectively provide protective coverage to a large area of the pharynx. This protection may involve modulating environmental pH and immune interactions. Based on their size, density, and location, they are considered the predominant glandular tissue in the pharyngeal region capable of providing enough secretion for mucosal protection. 
Dysfunction of the tubarial glands could be associated with dry mouth (xerostomia) and difficulty swallowing (dysphagia). The tubarial glands might also contribute as a source of SG tumors—it is believed that avoiding the irradiation of the glands can lessen some side effects of radiotherapy.


== Controversy ==
The claim that this organ was only recently discovered has been disputed by anatomists.


== References ==

Eastern Express Highway, abbreviated to EEH, is a 23.55 km (14.63 mi) long highway connecting the cities of Mumbai and Thane. It is one of the busiest roads in the Mumbai Metropolitan Area and is a part of the National Highway 48. It is a north–south artery of Mumbai connecting the city proper to the eastern suburbs and to the metropolitan area of Thane.
For most of its course, it is 6 lanes wide (3 lanes in each direction) with over a dozen flyovers/grade separators.


== Route ==
The highway begins at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus and stretches up to Thane. At Chembur, it cuts off from the Sion Panvel Highway at the RCF Junction (Priyadarshini), to the outer limits of the city. It has heavy traffic during rush hours – southbound traffic in the morning rush hour; while northbound traffic is heavy during the evenings. It is used by an estimated 50,000 passenger cars daily. Towards the south, beyond Sion, it continues as Dr Ambedkar Road. Linking Sion in central Mumbai to Thane and beyond, the Eastern Express Highway is one of the several key roads widened and improved under the Mumbai Urban Infrastructure Project, by firms contracted by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA).
Link roads connecting WEH (Western Express Highway) and EEH, such as the Jogeshwari–Vikhroli Link Road (JVLR) and Santa Cruz–Chembur Link Road (SCLR) are the major arterial roads of the Mumbai suburban road network. Both the WEH and the EEH run along the north to south direction and are parallel in certain sections.


== See also ==
Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg
Sion Panvel Highway
Mumbai–Pune Expressway
National Highway 48 (India)
Western Express Highway
Eastern Freeway (Mumbai)


== References ==

The pouch is a distinguishing feature of female marsupials and monotremes, and rarely in males as well, such as in the yapok and the extinct thylacine. The name marsupial is derived from the Latin marsupium, meaning "pouch". This is due to the occurrence of epipubic bones, a pair of bones projecting forward from the pelvis. Marsupials give birth to a live but relatively undeveloped foetus called a joey. When the joey is born it crawls from inside the mother to the pouch. The pouch is a fold of skin with a single opening that covers the teats. Inside the pouch, the blind offspring attaches itself to one of the mother's teats and remains attached for as long as it takes to grow and develop to a juvenile stage.


== Variations ==

The marsupial pouch shows substantial morphological variation across species, including differences in opening direction, enclosure, and teat arrangement. These different forms are often associated with ecological behavior such as climbing or burrowing. The two kinds that are distinguishable (on the front or belly): opening towards the head and extending the cavity under the skin towards the tail (forward, or up) or opening towards the tail and extending towards the front legs (to the rear, backward or down). For example for quolls and Tasmanian devils, the pouch opens to the rear and the joey only has to travel a short distance to get to the opening (resting place) of the pouch. While in the pouch they are permanently attached to the teat and once the young have developed they leave the pouch. The kangaroo's pouch opens horizontally on the front of the body, and the joey must climb a relatively long way to reach it. Kangaroos and wallabies allow their young to live in the pouch well after they are physically capable of leaving, often keeping two joeys in the pouch, one tiny and one fully developed. In kangaroos, wallabies and opossums, the pouch opens forward or up.  
Female koalas have been described as having a 'backward-opening' pouch like wombats, as opposed to an upward-opening pouch like kangaroos, but that is not true. When a female koala gives birth to young her pouch opening faces neither up nor down, although it is located towards the bottom of the pouch rather than at the top. It faces straight outwards rather than 'backwards'. It sometimes appears to be 'backward-facing' because when the joey is older and leans out of the pouch, this pulls the pouch downwards or 'backwards'. The pouch has a strong sphincter muscle at the opening to prevent the joey from falling out. 
In wombats and marsupial moles, the pouch opens backward or down. Backwards facing pouches would not work well in kangaroos or opossums as their young would readily fall out.  Similarly, forward-facing pouches would not work well for wombats and marsupial moles as they both dig extensively underground.  Their pouches would fill up with dirt and suffocate the developing young. Kangaroo mothers will lick their pouches clean before the joey crawls inside. Kangaroo pouches are sticky to support their young joey. Koalas are unable to clean out their pouches since they face backwards, so just prior to giving birth to the young koala joey, a self-cleaning system is activated, secreting droplets of an anti-microbial liquid that cleans it out. In a relatively short time, the cleansing droplets clean out all of the crusty material left inside, leaving an almost sterile environment ready to receive the tiny joey. 
The water opossum and the now extinct Tasmanian tiger are the only two marsupials where the male also has a pouch (in order to protect their genitalia while swimming).
Some marsupials (e.g. phascogales) lack the true, permanent pouches seen in other species.  Instead, they form temporary skin folds (sometimes called "pseudo-pouches") in the mammary region when reproducing. This type of pouch also occurs in echidnas which are monotremes. Across marsupials, variation in pouch presence reflects broader evolutionary patterns. Comparative evolutionary studies also suggest pouch presence is associated with history traits. Species with larger body sizes and smaller litter sizes are more likely to have a well-developed pouch. This is consistent with reproductive strategies that involved greater maternal investment per offspring. In contrast, small-bodies species that produce larger litters may lack a pouch. This suggest energetic trade-offs between offspring number and parental investment have influence pouch evolution.
Pouches have their own microbiota and it changes depending on reproductive stage: anoestrus, pre-oestrus, oestrus/birth, post-birth. The pouch also plays an important immunological role. Marsupial young are born without a fully developed adaptive immune system. As a result, newborns are susceptible to infection while completing their development attached to the mother's teat within the pouch. However, the pouch environment is not sterile and contains diverse microbial communities, including potential pathogens. To fight against these risks, the pouch epithelium produces antimicrobial secretions that help regulate microbial growth and maintain a controlled microbial environment. Additionally, the maternal milk contains lysozymes, immunoglobulins, transferrin, and cathelicidins which help to contribute to neonatal protection.Changes can be made to the appearance of the pouch by inducing oestrus.


== See also ==
For more about the nature and usage of the pouch, see Marsupial § Early development


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Marsupial pouches at Wikimedia Commons

North Arm is a settlement in Lafonia, the southern part of East Falkland, in the Falkland Islands. It sits on the south coast, on the shore of the Bay of Harbours, from where it overlooks Sea Lion Island in the distance. In 2007, the population was 25 people, of which six were children. It is the largest settlement on East Falkland south of Goose Green. North Arm is located 90 miles (140 km) from Stanley, and it takes about four and a half hours to drive between the two settlements.


== History ==


=== Sheep farming ===
During the 1893-4 sheep farming season the Falkland Islands Company's farm at North Arm was introduced to a new steam machine, which sheared sheep automatically; however, due to performance issues with machine shearing, many farms continued hand shearing until the early 1960s, but by the 1970–71 season only one farm still practiced hand shearing.
North Arm was owned by the Falkland Islands Company until 1991, when it was sold to the government. There is a school, a community centre and a shop that opens for three hours a week.


=== Disappearance of Alan Addis ===

North Arm was the scene of the still unresolved 1980 disappearance Royal Marine Alan Addis. In August 1980, Alan Addis, 19 years old at the time, was stationed in the Falkland Islands as part of a six-man unit of Royal Marines tasked with preparing local inhabitants for a potential invasion by Argentina On 8 August, after a week of working, the marines went to the social club in North Arm to spend the evening drinking. Addis was last seen around 1:30 a.m., and after the marines' ship had left port at 7 a.m. the following morning it was turned around after Addis was discovered to be absent. The following search yielded no results, and it was initially believed that Addis had died of an accident, possibly the result of slipping and falling into the Bay of Harbours or wandering off into the interior of Lafonia. This was disputed by Alan Addis's mother, Ann Addis, who, after going to the Falkland Islands herself to investigate, believed that her son had been murdered. In the years that followed no traces of Alan Addis were found, with an inquest into the disappearance returning an open verdict and Falkland Islands law enforcement coming to share Ann Addis's suspicions of murder.  


== Geography ==
North Arm is located in a drier area of the Falkland Islands, and receives around 400 mm (16 in) of rainfall annually, compared to the roughly 600 millimetres (24 in) that Stanley receives.
The settlements surroundings are part of the geological Bay of Harbours Formation, consisting mainly of sandstone and siltstone, and in some places the ground consists of a combination "of rough, ridged, topography and lines of diddle-dee marking sandstone beds." The Bay of Harbours Formation was formed during the Late Permian, and although uncommon, fossils from that era are present in the formation, including ones of Glossopteris. Some buildings in North Arm, and one to the east of Goose Green, are made of sandstone from the formation, and these buildings have proven to be resistant to frost damage.


== References ==


== Sources ==
Aldiss, D.T.; Edwards, E.J. (1999). The geology of the Falkland Islands (PDF). British Geological Survey (Report). p. 2. Retrieved 11 May 2026.

Rafik Schami (Arabic: رفيق شامي) (born Suheil Fadel (سهيل فاضل) 23 June 1946) is a Syrian-German author, storyteller and critic.


== Biography ==
Born in Syria in 1946, Schami is the son of a baker from a Christian Aramean (Syriac) family. His family originated from the town of Maaloula. After attending a monastery boarding school in Lebanon, he studied chemistry, mathematics, and physics in Damascus. In 1970, he left Syria for Lebanon to evade censorship and the military draft; the following year, he moved to Germany. There, Schami continued his studies in chemistry while working odd jobs, obtaining a doctorate in 1979.
From 1965, Schami began writing stories in Arabic. From 1964 to 1970, he was the co-founder and editor of the wall news-sheet Al-Muntalak (The Starting-Point) in the old quarter of Damascus. Later in Germany, in his spare time, he co-founded the literary group Südwind in 1980 and was part of the PoLiKunst movement. Schami became a full-time author in 1982. He currently lives in the city of Kirchheimbolanden with his Bavarian wife and son and holds dual citizenship. Schami's books have been translated into 29 languages.


== Assessment ==
Syrian-born Rafik Schami rates as one of the leading figures of German migrant literature. "Guest-workers", mainly from Turkey, began to arrive in Germany in 1960, and by 1968 they numbered over 150,000. A distinctive migrant literature began to emerge significantly as a result of both Schami's own writing and his role as a facilitator for other writers. In 1980 he co-founded the literary groups Südwind (South Wind) and PoLiKunst (Polynationaler Literatur- und Kunstverein; Polynational Literary and Art Society), which encouraged all forms of migrant cultural production.
Typical themes of migrant literature are conditions in the homeland and life as an alien in Germany. Both of these are to be found in Schami's works, but unlike many migrant writings in German, they never degenerate into a lament on the difficulties of the foreign worker or an exposé of German xenophobia. Rather, a sympathy and tolerance for cultural diversity.  Mostly they are set in Damascus, occasionally in Maaloula, the village the author's family originates from. They describe life in the Arab world for the benefit of the western reader, providing factual information and offering insights into aspects of daily life. In the process, they quietly undermine all kinds of prejudice.
The short novel Eine Hand voller Sterne (1987; A Hand Full of Stars), which contains many autobiographical elements, is a good example of this. It takes the form of the diary of a Damascene youth, following his progress through school, work, and family life, and featuring the themes of friendship and first love in a difficult situation of social conflict. Without ever appearing didactic, it educates the reader to an awareness of the richness of life in a foreign culture. Important here is the differentiating presentation of the Arab world which militates against the homogeneity of western perceptions. Like the author, the diary-writer stands in the Christian tradition: not all Arabs are Muslims. Cultural and religious diversity in Syria is a key theme in the book, for example in the riddle of the "madman", which can only be solved by the co-operation of all the communities in Damascus. The story "Nuh, mein Freund" ("My Friend Nuh") in the collection Der Fliegenmelker (1985; The Fly Milker) deals with the young man's discovery of an affection for the Kurdish minority.
If the fiction set in Syria presents a positive view of Arab family and social structures, it frequently contains critical comment on Damascene politics, on corruption, censorship, issues of civil and human rights. It was because of these problems that Schami himself left Syria and was unable to return. A Hand Full of Stars is again a good example, charting as it does the growing political awareness of the boy as he discovers journalism as a form of civil resistance.  The story "Als der Angstmacher Angst bekam" ("When the Fear-maker became Afraid") in Der Fliegenmelker takes a malicious delight in the downfall of a government informer, a stock figure in Schami's Damascene fiction.  Other texts speak of the fear of police brutality, skepticism vis à vis government propaganda and disillusionment as a series of coups fail to bring political change.
By contrast, Schami has a generally positive view of Germany.  In interviews and speeches he warns against undercurrents of intolerance but speaks optimistically of the Germans as a people well-placed precisely because of their history to embrace foreign elements. Some stories dealing generally with intolerance and injustice could certainly be read in the context of migrant workers in Germany. One commentator interprets the title story of Das Letzte Wort der Wanderratte (1984; The Itinerant Rat's Last Word) in this way: rats = guest-workers, humans = Germans, massacre of Hamelin rats = Holocaust; the interpretation is possible but not necessary. Similarly the title story of Das Schaf im Wolfspelz (1982; Sheep in Wolf's Clothing) and many others which very obviously contain a social moral could certainly be taken to address the situation in Germany but could be equally applicable in Syria or elsewhere. The story "Vampire lieben Knoblauch" ("Vampires Love Garlic") in Das Letzte Wort der Wanderratte tells how Günter with his crucifix and Ali with his crescent are equally helpless victims of the predator, Dracula; it is a mistake to seek anti-German polemic in Schami's writing.
His sharpest criticism is directed against the principle of assimilation, with its implication that outsiders settling in Germany should abandon their own cultural identity. In the story "Als der Meister auftrat" ("When the Master Entered") in Das Letzte Wort der Wanderratte, the migrant worker Hassan has himself transformed into a Siegfried, only to discover that the deception is untenable. The magician who sells him his German skin is named Gnussapna – an inversion of Anpassung, assimilation. As an alternative the story speaks of bridge-building, the disarming of prejudices in both communities. Against the pressure for ethnic minorities to become invisible, Schami champions the concept of a boldly multicultural society, which indeed was the basic ideal of the PoLiKunst movement. A fine expression of the importance of co-existence is the parable "Der Wald und das Streichholz" ("The Forest and the Matchstick") in Der Fliegenmelker: if the pines and the olives each hope the match will burn the others, it will burn them all.
The overriding characteristic of Schami's style is its affinity to the oral tradition of Arabic story-telling: one could speak of an integration of Arabic and German narrative traditions. Most of his books are collections of stories, while the novels abound in echoes of the Arabian Nights, even in the titles of Erzähler der Nacht (1989; Damascus Nights) or Der ehrliche Lügner (1992; The Honest Liar), is subtitled: Roman von tausendundeiner Lüge (Novel of 1001 Lies). Both are structured as a series of inserted stories presented orally by protagonists within a narrative framework. Damascus Nights in particular is a story about story-telling. Vom Zauber der Zunge (1991; On the Magic of the Tongue) gives an account of the background to it. Schami began as a child telling stories to his friends on the streets of Damascus, and his promotional appearances are less public readings than free retellings of his works.  Story-tellers are favorite protagonists.
One consequence of this is that the target audience is extremely fluid: while some of his works are clearly published as children's literature (picture books, cassettes), the distinction between youth, young adult and adult literature is not easily made; traditional story-telling addresses the entire community at once. The interplay of truth and fiction, always difficult concepts, is a recurring theme in Schami's writings.  Der ehrliche Lügner opens with the words: "My name is Sadik, but not even that is certain." Elsewhere we are told that the important thing is not whether stories are true, but rather how we live with them (A Hand Full of Stars). Although elements from fairy-tale worlds may appear in these stories, they are always rooted in daily life. Schami has made a distinction between Illusion and Phantasie (illusion and vision). Illusion is an unachievable dream, distorting the world to something impossible, whereas vision is the imaginative construction of achievable goals; rooted in reality it indicates something which can be striven for, but this reality means also accepting the other possibility, that there may not be a happy ending. Asked by a radio interviewer whether literature is an escape from reality, Schami answers, yes: but one which enables the reader to return to reality better equipped.


== Literary prizes ==
Adelbert-von-Chamisso-Förderpreis 1985;
Thaddäus-Troll-Preis des Förderkreises deutscher Schriftsteller in Baden-Württemberg 1986; *ZDF-Leseratten-Preis 1987;
Zürcher Kinder- und Jugendbuchpreis "La vache qui lit" 1987;
Die blaue Brillenschlange 1987;
Jenny-Smelik-Kiggen Preis 1989;
Österreicher Staatspreis (Austrian State Prize) Ehrenliste 1989;
Rattenfänger-Preis der Stadt Hameln 1990;
Phantastikpreis der Stadt Wetzlar 1990;
Mildred L. Batchelder Award, for the English translation A Hand Full of Stars, 1991
Adelbert-von-Chamisso-Preis 1993;
Hermann-Hesse-Literaturpreis 1994;
Hans-Erich-Nossack-Preis der deutschen Wirtschaft 1997;
Nelly Sachs Prize 2006.
Hermann-Sinsheimer-Preis
Carl Zuckmayer Medal 2022


== Works of fiction ==
Andere Märchen, 1978
Das Schaf im Wolfspelz: Märchen und Fabeln, 1982
Luki: die Abenteuer eines kleinen Vogels, 1983
Das letzte Wort der Wanderratte: Märchen, Fabeln und phantastische Geschichten, 1984
Der Fliegenmelker: Geschichten aus Damaskus, 1985
Weshalb darf Babs wieder lachen?, 1985
Der erste Ritt durchs Nadelöhr: noch mehr Märchen, Fabeln und phantastische Geschichten, 1985
Bobo und Susu: Als der Elefant sich in eine Maus verliebte, 1986
Der Kameltreiber von Heidelberg (radio play) 1986
Eine Hand voller Sterne, 1987; (A Hand Full of Stars, translateted by Rika Lesser, 1990)
Malula: Märchen und Märchenhaftes aus meinem Dorf, 1987
Als die Puppen aus der Reihe tanzten (play) 1987
Die Sehnsucht fährt schwarz: Geschichten aus der Fremde, 1988
Erzähler der Nacht, 1989 (Damascus Nights, translated by Philip Böhm, 1993?)
Der Löwe Benilo, 1989
Der Wunderkasten, 1990
Der fliegende Baum: Die schönsten Märchen, Fabeln und phantastischen Geschichten, 1991
Der ehrliche Lügner, 1992
Das ist kein Papagei, 1994
Reise zwischen Nacht und Morgen, 1995
Der Schnabelsteher, 1995 (The Crow Who Stood on His Beak, translated by Anthea Bell 1996)
Fatima und der Traumdieb, 1995 (Fatima and the Dream Thief, translated by Anthea Bell 1996)
Loblied und andere Olivenkerne, 1996
Milad: von einem, der auszog, um einundzwanzig Tage satt zu werden, 1997
Gesammelte Olivenkerne, 1997
Vom Zauber der Zunge, Reden gegen das Verstummen, 1998
Die dunkle Seite der Liebe, 2004 (The Dark Side of Love, translated by Anthea Bell 2009)
Was ich schaffe, überdauert die Zeit, 2008
Das Geheimnis des Kalligraphen, 2008 (The Calligrapher's Secret, translated by Anthea Bell 2011)
Die geheime Mission des Kardinals, 2019


== Published speeches and interviews ==
Vom Zauber der Zunge: Reden gegen das Verstummen, 1991
Der brennende Eisberg: Eine Rede, ihre Geschichte und noch mehr, 1994
Zeiten des Erzählens, edited by Erich Jooß, 1994
Damals dort und heute hier, edited by Erich Jooß, 1998


== Sources ==
This article is taken (with permission) from: Dunphy, Graeme (2000). "Rafik Schami". In Konzett, Matthias (ed.). Encyclopedia of German Literature. Chicago: Fitzroy Dearborn Publishers. pp. 849–851. ISBN 1-57958-138-2.


== See also ==

Migrant literature
German literature


== References ==


== External links ==

Suruç Water Tunnel (Turkish: Suruç Tüneli is a water supply tunnel located in Suruç district of Şanlıurfa Province, southeastern Turkey. The purpose of the tunnel is to provide irrigation for the Suruç Valley from Atatürk Dam. With its length of 17.185 km (10.678 mi), it is the country's longest tunnel.


== Technical features ==
The water tunnel was commissioned by the State Hydraulic Works (DSI) on December 25, 2008. For the building of the water tunnel, Ilci Construction Inc. was contracted. The construction works at an altitude of 580 m (1,900 ft) AMSL began on March 18, 2009. The excavation of the water tunnel was carried out with a tunnel boring machine (TBM), which is 152 m (499 ft) long and has a cutting shield of 7.83 m (25.7 ft) diameter. The TBM was transported from Italy on 300 trailers, and its assembly completed after twelve months on August 21, 2010. Synchronised with the progress of excavation, the inner walls of the tunnel were lined with 30 cm (12 in) thick precast concrete hexagons. The average daily progress of the excavation works was between 30–40 m (98–131 ft). The water tunnel has an average downhill slope of 0.49% through the Gazientep Formation of the Eocene and Oligocene geological period.


== Economics ==
The construction cost about ₺2 billion. As part of the Southeastern Anatolia Project, it supplies water to agricultural land covering an area of about 950 km2 (370 sq mi) in Suruç Valley and to 134 populated places in and around Suruç. With its inner diameter of  7 m (23 ft), the water tunnel has a discharge capacity of 90 m3/s (3,200 cu ft/s), which makes it bigger than many rivers in Turkey. It is expected that the project will create jobs for at least 190,000 people in the region. With irrigation by the Suruç Water Tunnel, over 8,000 farmers will be able to produce more profitable agricultural product. Ministry of Forest and Water Management Veysel Eroğlu stated that its contribution to the country's economy will as much as ₺270 million annually.


== See also ==
List of long tunnels by type


== References ==

Casey Benjamin (October 10, 1978 – March 30, 2024) was an American saxophonist (alto and soprano), vocoderist, keyboardist, producer, and songwriter. He was a member of the Robert Glasper Experiment which won a Grammy Award for Best R&B Album for their album Black Radio. He was one half of the funk pop new wave duo HEAVy with vocalist Nicky Guiland.
Benjamin was also a member of Stefon Harris's band Blackout and worked with numerous artists at the intersection of jazz, hip-hop, and R&B, including Roy Hargrove, Betty Carter, Derrick Hodge, Victor Bailey, Kris Bowers, Kendrick Lamar, Nas, Q-Tip, Mos Def, Lupe Fiasco, Kanye West, Busta Rhymes, Diddy, Heavy D, Consequence, DJ Logic, Wyclef Jean, Bilal, Mary J. Blige, John Legend, and Beyonce. He also worked with rockers Vernon Reid and Melvin Gibbs. In 2011, he was the keyboard/saxophonist for Patrick Stump's live solo project tour.
Benjamin was from South Jamaica, Queens, New York City. He picked up the saxophone at eight years old and continued studying the instrument at Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts. He also attended workshops with jazz pianist Barry Harris. Later, he attended The New School for Jazz and Contemporary Music in Manhattan, where he met Robert Glasper.
Benjamin died suddenly on March 30, 2024, at the age of 45. The cause of his death was a pulmonary thromboembolism (blood clot).  According to a statement released by his family on his social media, he was recovering from a recent surgery at the time of his death.


== Discography ==


=== As sideman ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Casey Benjamin discography at Discogs
Casey Benjamin at IMDb

The 1909 Wisconsin Supreme Court election was held on Tuesday, April 6, 1909, to elect a justice to the Wisconsin Supreme Court. Incumbent justice John Barnes was re-elected, unopposed.


== Results ==


== References ==

The Sparkman–Skelley Farm is a property in Boston, Tennessee that was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2000.  It has also been known as Sparkman Farm and as Skelley Farm.  It dates from c.1846.
It includes Italianate and Greek Revival architecture.  When listed the property included four contributing buildings, one contributing structure, and one non-contributing building on an area of 94 acres (38 ha).
The NRHP eligibility of the property was covered in a 1988 study of Williamson County historical resources.


== References ==

Le Flon is a municipality in the district of Veveyse in the canton of Fribourg in Switzerland.  It was created in 2004 through the merger of Bouloz, Pont (Veveyse) and Porsel.


== Geography ==
Le Flon has an area of 9.57 km2 (3.69 sq mi).  Of this area, 7.04 km2 (2.72 mi2) or 73.5% is used for agricultural purposes, while 1.91 km2 (0.74 mi2) or 19.9% is forested.   Of the rest of the land, 0.53 km2 (0.20 mi2) or 5.5% is settled (buildings or roads), 0.01 km2 (2.5 acres) or 0.1% is either rivers or lakes and 0.05 km2 (12 acres) or 0.5% is unproductive land.
Of the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.3% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.6%.  Out of the forested land, 18.7% of the total land area is heavily forested and 1.3% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees.  Of the agricultural land, 13.7% is used for growing crops and  58.7% is pastures, while 1.1% is used for orchards or vine crops.  All the water in the municipality is flowing water.
The municipality is located in the Veveyse district.


== Demographics ==
Le Flon has a population (as of December 2020) of 1,223.  As of 2008, 6.6% of the population are resident foreign nationals.  Over the last 10 years (2000–2010) the population has changed at a rate of 26.2%.  Migration accounted for 21%, while births and deaths accounted for 6.6%.
Most of the population (as of 2000) speaks French (95.3%) as their first language, German is the second most common (2.4%) and Portuguese is the third (0.8%).
As of 2008, the population was 52.3% male and 47.7% female.  The population was made up of 502 Swiss men (48.9% of the population) and 35 (3.4%) non-Swiss men.  There were 448 Swiss women (43.6%) and 42 (4.1%) non-Swiss women.  As of 2000, children and teenagers (0–19 years old) make up 30.2% of the population, while adults (20–64 years old) make up 56.3% and seniors (over 64 years old) make up 13.5%.
As of 2009, the construction rate of new housing units was 6.7 new units per 1000 residents.


== Politics ==
In the 2011 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 25.1% of the vote.  The next three most popular parties were the SPS (25.0%), the CVP (24.6%) and the FDP (8.8%).
The SVP lost about 5.1% of the vote when compared to the 2007 Federal election (30.2% in 2007 vs 25.1% in 2011).  The SPS moved from third in 2007 (with 23.7%) to second in 2011, the CVP moved from second in 2007 (with 26.4%) to third and the FDP retained about the same popularity (8.6% in 2007).  A total of 319 votes were cast in this election, of which 6 or 1.9% were invalid.


== Economy ==
As of  2010, Le Flon had an unemployment rate of 3.7%.  As of 2008, there were 77 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 32 businesses involved in this sector.  27 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 11 businesses in this sector.  43 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 20 businesses in this sector.
In 2008 the total number of full-time equivalent jobs was 115.  The number of jobs in the primary sector was 57, all of which were in agriculture.  The number of jobs in the secondary sector was 25 of which 7 or (28.0%) were in manufacturing and 17 (68.0%) were in construction.  The number of jobs in the tertiary sector was 33.  In the tertiary sector; 16 or 48.5% were in wholesale or retail sales or the repair of motor vehicles, 2 or 6.1% were in the movement and storage of goods, 3 or 9.1% were in a hotel or restaurant, 1 was a technical professional or scientist, 8 or 24.2% were in education and 1 was in health care.
Of the working population, 7% used public transportation to get to work, and 63.9% used a private car.


== Education ==
The Canton of Fribourg school system provides one year of non-obligatory Kindergarten, followed by six years of Primary school.  This is followed by three years of obligatory lower Secondary school where the students are separated according to ability and aptitude.  Following the lower Secondary students may attend a three or four year optional upper Secondary school.  The upper Secondary school is divided into gymnasium (university preparatory) and vocational programs.  After they finish the upper Secondary program, students may choose to attend a Tertiary school or continue their apprenticeship.
During the 2010–11 school year, there were a total of 114 students attending 6 classes in Le Flon. A total of 206 students from the municipality attended any school, either in the municipality or outside of it. There was one kindergarten class with a total of 15 students in the municipality. The municipality had 5 primary classes and 99 students. During the same year, there were no lower secondary classes in the municipality, but 52 students attended lower secondary school in a neighboring municipality. There were no upper secondary classes or vocational classes, but there were 22 upper Secondary students and 12 upper Secondary vocational students who attended classes in another municipality. The municipality had no non-university Tertiary classes, but there were 2 non-university Tertiary students and 3 specialized Tertiary students who attended classes in another municipality.


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website (in French)
"Le Flon" in  German, French and Italian in the online Historical Dictionary of Switzerland.
"Bouloz" in  German, French and Italian in the online Historical Dictionary of Switzerland.
"Pont (Veveyse)" in  German, French and Italian in the online Historical Dictionary of Switzerland.
"Porsel" in  German, French and Italian in the online Historical Dictionary of Switzerland.

The Scouts de España (1960–1978) was a nondenominational Scouting organization in Spain after the official dissolution of other Scouting movements in Spain in 1940 under Francisco Franco. This organization was marked by differences with Catholic Scouting groups such as the Movimiento Scout Católico that, under the shelter of the Roman Catholic Church (generally at the parish-level) also maintained activity during this period.


== Scouts de España versus Scouts Católicos ==
Between the movements existed a fundamental confessional difference, which also induced differences in the growth and financing of the groups. The Scouts de España were locally organized and self-managed, whereas the Catholics were generally parochially organized and managed. Other differences existed in the Scout ideals. The Catholic Scout Motto was "Always Alert", whereas the Scouts de España were "Always Ready", for example.


== Social acceptance ==
Both movements always enjoyed support of the population, and although officially dissolved, the Scout movements were given tacit permission to maintain activities until the present era and the later resurgence of Scouting in Spain after 1977. Authorities showed ample general tolerance with the movement in spite of the de jure illegality of their situation.


== Program and ideals ==
The national emblem of the Scouts de España was the fleur-de-lis formed in the shape of a Cross of Saint James.
The text of the Scout Promise that-after surpassing the corresponding tests for an aspiring tenderfoot to become a Scout, was:
Prometo por mi honor, y con la ayuda de Dios, hacer cuanto de mí dependa para cumplir mis deberes para con Dios y la Patria, ayudar a mi prójimo en toda circunstancia y cumplir fielmente la Ley Scout.
I promise on my honor, and with the aid of God, to do whatever depends on me to fulfill my duties towards God and the Mother country, to help to my fellows in all circumstances and to faithfully obey the Scout Law.


== Scout Law ==
El Scout cifra su honor en ser digno de confianza.
El Scout es leal a su patria, sus padres, sus jefes y sus subordinados.
El Scout es útil y ayuda a sus semejantes.
El Scout es amigo de todos y hermano de los demás scout sin distinción de clases ni razas.
El Scout es cortés y caballeroso.
El Scout ve en la Naturaleza la obra de Dios y respeta y protege a los animales y las plantas.
El Scout es obediente, disciplinado y no hace nada a medias.
El Scout es animoso y sonríe y canta ante peligros y dificultades.
El Scout es trabajador, económico y cuida el bien ajeno.
El Scout es limpio y sano, puro en sus pensamientos, palabras y acciones.
It was customary to say that there was an unwritten eleventh point-The Scout is not an idiot.


== References ==

Joseph "Joe" Kneipp (born 27 September 1973 in Brisbane, Queensland) is an Australian former professional squash player.
Kneipp was born in Brisbane and grew up near Cairns. He began playing squash at the age of seven. As a junior, he won the Australian under-13 squash championship title. At the age of 14, he attended the Australian Institute of Sport for a year. He captained the Australian team which won the world junior team title in 1992.
Kneipp joined the professional circuit in 1994. His career-high world ranking to date is World No. 10 in January 2004. That year, he finished runner-up to Thierry Lincou in the Super Series Finals.
Kneipp won a gold medal in the mixed doubles at the 2006 Commonwealth Games, partnering Natalie Grinham. He also won the mixed doubles title at the 2006 World Doubles Squash Championships, partnering Rachael Grinham.
Since 2002, Joe has been coached by his brother Daniel Kneipp.


== External links ==
Profile at psa-squash.com
Joseph Kneipp at Squash Info
Page at squashpics.com at the Wayback Machine (archived 2006-11-17)
Team Kneipp column at squashtalk.com at the Wayback Machine (archived 2005-04-27)
Interview at squashtalk.com (January 2002) at the Wayback Machine (archived 2007-03-14)
Interview at squashsite.co.uk (May 2004)

René A.J. Janssen (born 1959 in Roermond, Netherlands) is a Dutch chemist who is Professor of the Moleculair Materials and Nanosystems group (M2N group) within the department of Chemical engineering and Chemistry at Eindhoven University of Technology.
In 2013 Janssen won a 2.5 million euro grant by the European Research Council to develop methods to produce solar energy systems at a lower cost.
In 2015 he was one of four winners of the Dutch Spinoza Prize. Part of Janssen's research focuses on plastic solar cells and the storage of solar energy in solar cells.
Since 2011 Janssen is member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.


== References ==


== External links ==
Profile at Eindhoven University of Technology

Eastern Suburbs (now known as the Sydney Roosters) competed in the 30th New South Wales Rugby League season in 1927.


== Details ==
Home Ground: Agricultural Ground
Lineup:-
Cyril Abotomey 
• J. Barratt 
• Tom Barry 
• George Boddington 
• Bill Ives
• Massey 
• F. Jefferies  
• G. Hall 
• George Harris 
• G. Keys
• G.H. Clamback 
• H. Kavanagh
• Hugh Byrne 
• Nelson Hardy 
• P. Burton 
• Dick Brown 
• R. Kerr 
• T. Fitzpatrick 
• Rick Bevan
• Norm Pope
• Arthur Robinson 
• Jack Coote 
• Vic Webber
• S. Sharp 
• A. Carter


== References ==


== External links ==
Rugby League Tables and Statistics

Robert Edwin Sutton (born 30 May 1940) is a New Zealand former cricketer. He played 56 first-class matches, most of them for Auckland, between 1958 and 1974.
Sutton was a left-arm fast-medium bowler and tail-end batsman. He was for some years considered a bowler of Test potential, and was selected for teams of young New Zealand players against touring Test teams three times in the 1960s, but was never selected in the Test team. He took his best figures of 7 for 64 and 2 for 35 when Auckland defeated Wellington in the final game of the 1963–64 Plunket Shield, giving Auckland a narrow victory in the tournament. In the 1962–63 Plunket Shield he took 6 for 14 and 2 for 20 (match figures of 33.4–19–34–8) in an innings victory over Otago.


== References ==


== External links ==
Robert Sutton at Cricinfo

Hyperaspis signata is a species of lady beetle in the family Coccinellidae. It is found in North America, where it has been recorded from Massachusetts to Florida, west to Wisconsin and east Texas. It is also found in Oklahoma.


== Description ==
Adults reach a length of about 2.60-4.0 mm (ssp. signata) and 2.60-3.25 mm (ssp. bicentralis). The pronotum of the males has yellow anterior and lateral margins. The elytron has one or two yellow or red spots.


== Subspecies ==
These two subspecies belong to the species Hyperaspis signata:

Hyperaspis signata bicentralis Casey, 1899 (Oklahoma, Texas)
Hyperaspis signata signata (Olivier, 1808) (Massachusetts to Florida, west to Wisconsin and east Texas)


== References ==


== Further reading ==

Rendezvous Mountain is a 1,800-acre (730 ha) North Carolina state park in Purlear, North Carolina.  It was originally established as North Carolina's third state park. From 1984 to early 2022, the park was operated by the North Carolina Forest Service as Rendezvous Mountain Educational State Forest.


== History ==
Rendezvous Mountain is popularly rumored to have been an assembly point for the Overmountain Men during the Revolutionary War.  Colonel Benjamin Cleveland is said to have called militiamen from around Wilkes County, by blowing a large ox horn from the mountain's summit.  Cleveland was able to summon over 200 Patriots from the surrounding area to join him on a march to the Battle of Kings Mountain.  The route they took is now commemorated by the nearby Overmountain Victory National Historic Trail.
In 1926, the park's original 146-acre (0.59 km2) tract was donated to the state by Judge T. B. Finley of North Wilkesboro for inclusion in the State Park System; however, the unit was never opened to the public due to its small size, inaccessible location, and questionable historic significance.
The Civilian Conservation Corps constructed roads and trails around the mountain in the 1930s. They also built a cabin near the mountain's summit, which still remains.
The land was transferred to the Division of Forestry in 1956.  It was later opened to the public in 1984 as an educational state forest. In the early 2000s, the forest was greatly expanded when large tracts along its western boundary became available.  The state forest grew to a peak size of 3,316 acres (13.42 km2).
The Appropriations Act of 2021 instructed the NC Forest Service to transfer a mutually agreed upon portion of Rendezvous Mountain Educational State Forest to the NC Division of Parks and Recreation by February 1, 2022.  Since the forest was already split into two disconnected areas, it was agreed that the original tract and all adjoining tracts, which contained the forest's visitor facilities, would be managed as a state park.  Meanwhile, the undeveloped, 1,500-acre (6.1 km2) Little Fork tract would be retained by the Forest Service, and it would be leased to the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission as a public game land.


== References ==


== External links ==
Rendezvous Mountain NC Department of Natural and Cultural Resources
Rendezvous Mountain Map (July 2025) North Carolina State Parks

The Legacy (1961–2002) is a boxset covering four decades of recordings by Glen Campbell. The fourth CD is a compilation of live recordings.
In 2019, a revised version of the set, titled The Legacy (1961-2017) was released. It replaced the fourth disc, composed of live recordings, with a disc of studio tracks from albums Campbell had released from 2003 to 2017.


== Track listing ==
Disc 1:

"Turn Around, Look At Me" (Jerry Capehart)
"Kentucky Means Paradise" (with The Green River Boys) (Merle Travis)
"Too Late To Worry - Too Blue To Cry" (Al Dexter)
"Universal Soldier" (Buffy St. Marie)
"Guess I'm Dumb" (Brian Wilson, Russ Titelman)
"Burning Bridges" (Walter Scott)
"Just To Satisfy You" (Waylon Jennings, Don Bowman)
"Less Of Me" (Glen Campbell)
"Gentle On My Mind" (John Hartford)
"Cryin'" (Joe Melson, Roy Orbison)
"By The Time I Get To Phoenix" (Jimmy Webb)
"Tomorrow Never Comes" (Ernest Tubb, Johnny Bond)
"Hey, Little One" (Dorsey Burnette, Barry De Vorzon)
"I Wanna Live" (John D. Loudermilk)
"Turn Around And Look At Me" (Glen Campbell, Jerry Capehart)
"The Legend Of Bonnie And Clyde" (Merle Haggard, Buck Owens)
"Let It Be Me" (with Bobbie Gentry) (Gilbert Bécaud, Pierre Delanoë, Mann Curtis)
"Scarborough Fair/Canticle" (with Bobbie Gentry) (Paul Simon, Art Garfunkel)
"Wichita Lineman" (Jimmy Webb)
"Dreams of the Everyday Housewife" (Chris Gantry)
"Reason To Believe" (Tim Hardin)
Disc 2:

"Galveston" (Jimmy Webb)
"Where's The Playground Susie" (Jimmy Webb)
"If This Is Love" (Glen Campbell, Bill Ezell)
"True Grit" (Elmer Bernstein, Don Black)
"Try A Little Kindness" (Bobby Austin, Curt Sapaugh)
"Honey, Come Back" (Jimmy Webb)
"One Pair Of Hands" (Curtis, Campbell)
"All I Have to Do Is Dream" (Boudleaux Bryant)
"Everything A Man Could Ever Need" (Mac Davis)
"It's Only Make Believe" (Conway Twitty, Jack Nance)
"Pave Your Way Into Tomorrow" (Billy Graham)
"MacArthur Park" (Jimmy Webb)
"Dream Baby (How Long Must I Dream)" (Cindy Walker)
"The Last Time I Saw Her" (Gordon Lightfoot)
"I Say A Little Prayer/By The Time I Get To Phoenix" (with Anne Murray) (Burt Bacharach/Hal David, Jimmy Webb)
"The Last Thing On My Mind" (Tom Paxton)
"I Knew Jesus (Before He Was A Star)" (Neal Hefti, Stanley Styne)
"I'm So Lonesome I Could Cry" (Hank Williams)
"Houston (I'm Comin' To See You)" (David Paich)
"Bonaparte's Retreat" (Pee Wee King, Redd Stewart)
"The Moon's A Harsh Mistress" (Jimmy Webb)
Disc 3:

"Rhinestone Cowboy" (Larry Weiss)
"Country Boy (You Got Your Feet In LA)" (Dennis Lambert, Brian Potter)
"Arkansas" (Mitch Torok, Ramona Redd)
"Don't Pull Your Love/Then You Can Tell Me Goodbye" (Dennis Lambert, Brian Potter, John D. Loudermilk)
"Southern Nights" (Allen Toussaint)
"Sunflower" (Neil Diamond)
"God Only Knows" (Brian Wilson, Tony Asher)
"I'm Gonna Love You" (Micheal Smotherman)
"Can You Fool" (Micheal Smotherman)
"Highwayman" (Jimmy Webb)
"Somethin' 'Bout You Baby I Like" (with Rita Coolidge) (Richard Supa)
"Any Which Way You Can" (Milton Brown, Steve Dorff, Snuff Garrett)
"I Was Too Busy Loving You" (Jimmy Webb)
"Faithless Love" (John David Souther)
"A Lady Like You" (Jim Weatherly, Keith Stegall)
"The Hand That Rocks The Cradle" (with Steve Wariner) (Ted Harris)
"I Have You" (Gene Nelson, Paul Nelson)
"If These Walls Could Speak" (Jimmy Webb)
"Unconditional Love" (Donny Lowery, Randy Sharp, Tim Dubois)
"She's Gone Gone Gone" (Harlan Howard)
"Show Me Your Way" (with Anne Murray) (Craig Fall)
"Only One Life" (Jimmy Webb)
"Somebody Like That" (Larry Bryant, Geoff Thurman)
Disc 4: Live Performances

"The Impossible Dream" (Mitch Leigh, Joe Darion)
"The Lord's Prayer" (Albert Hay Malotte)
"Didn't We" (Jimmy Webb)
"My Way" (Jacques Revaux, Claude François, GliesThibaut, Paul Anka)
"Try To Remember/The Way We Were" (Harvey Schmidt, Tom Jones, Marvin Hamlisch, Alan Bergman, Marilyn Bergen)
"Galveston" (ballad arrangement) (Jimmy Webb)
"Amazing Grace" (John Newton)
"Classical Gas" (instrumental) (Mason Williams)
"Medley: Good Vibrations/Help Me Rhonda/Surfer Girl/Surfin' U.S.A." (Brian Wilson, Mike Love, Chuck Berry)
"Mansion In Branson" (Paul Overstreet, B. Braddock)
"Let It Be Me" (with Debby Campbell) (Gilbert Bécaud, Pierre Delanoë, Mann Curtis)
"Highwayman" (Jimmy Webb)
"The William Tell Overture" (instrumental) (Gioacchino Rossini)
"Still Within The Sound Of My Voice" (Jimmy Webb)
"Time In A Bottle" (Jim Croce)


== Production ==
Compilation producer - Mark Copeland
A & R supervisor - Christopher Clough
Remastering - Bob Norberg/Capital Mastering
Art direction - Michelle Azzopardi/Al Quattrocchi/Jeff Smith
Design - Tornado Design
Photos - Capitol Records Archives/Glen Campbell Enterprises/Al De Lory
Guitar photography - James Mitchel Steele
Memorabilia - Glen Campbell Enterprises
Liner notes - Joel Selvin
Discographical annotation - Michael Johnson
Editorial supervision - Brendan Gormley
Guitar cover - Ovation Guitars


== References ==

Stephen Thomas Erlewine. "Legacy 1961-2002". Allmusic. Retrieved August 11, 2009.
Mike Ireland. "Not Fade Away - Reissue Review from Issue #48 Nov-Dec 2003: The Legacy (1961-2002) (Capitol (4-CD box))". No Depression. Retrieved August 11, 2009.
Matt Cibula. "Too Much Glen Campbell, and I Still Don't Know Who He Is". Pop Matters. Retrieved August 31, 2009.

Olav Aspheim (24 November 1921 – 9 March 1948) was a Norwegian member of the fascist party Nasjonal Samling, volunteer front fighter for the 5th SS Panzer Division Wiking and Statspolitiet constable who was sentenced to death and shot after World War II.
From August 1944, he was a Statspolitiet constable in Oslo. He was among the Norwegians that on 9 February 1945 participated in a firing squad at the execution site of Akershus Fortress where twenty Norwegian resistance fighters were shot.
Aspheim was arrested after the war. During the post-war legal purge in Norway he was found guilty of crimes that included treason, bodily harm, maltreatment and wrongful execution. His case was confirmed by the Supreme Court on 27 February 1947, where he was sentenced to death. Aspheim was executed by firing squad at Akershus Fortress on 9 March 1948.


== References ==

The 1978 Kent State Golden Flashes football team was an American football team that represented Kent State University  in the Mid-American Conference (MAC) during the 1978 NCAA Division I-A football season. In their first season under head coach Ron Blackledge, the Golden Flashes compiled a 4–7 record (2–6 against MAC opponents), finished in eighth place in the MAC, and were outscored by all opponents by a combined total of 248 to 158.
The team's statistical leaders included Tom Delaney with 440 rushing yards, Tom Delaney with 400 passing yards, and Mike Moore with 250 receiving yards. Three Kent State players were selected as first-team All-MAC players: linebacker Jack Lazor and defensive linemen Mike McKibben and Mike Zele.


== Schedule ==


== References ==

The Callaway family is an American business family originating largely from the U.S. state of Georgia. 


== History ==
The Callaway family of Georgia descends from Peter Callaway (1640–1715) an immigrant who came to the United States from England. Fuller Earle Callaway, and Cason Jewell Callaway (1894–1961) were part of this same family; and their branch of the family had migrated to west Georgia (to the cities of Columbus and LaGrange).


== Family members ==
Peter Callaway (1640–1715, m. Elizabeth Johnson)
John Callaway Sr. (1685-1770, m. Mary Gould)
Edward Callaway (1711-1769)
John Callaway (1746-1821), founder of Callaway Plantation
Enoch Callaway (1792-1959, m. Martha "Patsy" Reeves)
Rev. Abner Reeves Callaway (1832-1898), second-generation Baptist minister
(m. Sarah Jane Howard)
Enoch Callaway, Mayor of LaGrange - 1895-1897 (1853-1901, m. Frances Banks)
Enoch Callaway Jr. (1892-1961, m. Jennie Crowell)
Enoch Callaway III (1924-2014), psychiatrist
Jane Louisa Crowell Callaway (1929-1931)
Mary Glenn Callaway Arnold (1855-1907)
Howard Robert Callaway (1857-1927)
Lucy B. Callaway (1859, died in infancy)
Abbie R. Callaway (1860-1865)
William B. Callaway (1863, died in infancy)
Pope Francis Callaway (1865-1923)
Abner Reeves Callaway Jr (1868-1869)
Fuller Earle Callaway (1870-1928, m. Ida Cason)
Fuller Earle Callaway Jr. (1907-1992), CEO of Callaway Mills
Cason Jewell Callaway (1894-1961), founded Callaway Gardens
Bo Callaway, congressman and United States secretary of the Army (m. Beth Walton)
Betsy Callaway Considine (m. Terry Considine)
(m. Mary Wilbourne Ely)
Ely Reeves Callaway (1880-1956)
Ely Callaway Jr. (1919-2001), founder of Callaway Golf Company
Ely Reeves Callaway III (1948-2023), founder of Callaway Cars
Nicholas Callaway, founder of Callaway Arts & Entertainment
Lisa Callaway
Abbie Leila Callaway Allen (1883-1974)
Harry Wilbourn Callaway (1884-1950)


== References ==

Village Drums of Freedom are free improvisation percussion band founded in 1969 by Trinidadian drummer Gerald Achee. As of 2012 VDOF consists of more than a hundred jembe players all over the world. Most of them are members of Rastafari Movement. Village Drums of Freedom are Calypso band. Every year they play a leading part in the Trinidad and Tobago Carnival. In 2003 VDOF released an album Historic travel: cultural rhythms.


== See also ==
Polyrhythm
Djembe
Improvisation


== References ==


== External links ==
Village Drums of Freedom official Soundcloud account

The 1920–21 National Challenge Cup was the annual open cup held by the United States Football Association now known as the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup.


== History ==
On September 25, 1920, the National Challenge Cup held a drawing for the first round of the 1921 National Challenge Cup.  The drawing paired eighty-five entrants, down from 99 the previous year being due to the fact the entrance fee had been raised from $5 to $10. The cup a single elimination format consisting of six rounds and a single game final. The entrants were dividing into an eastern and a western division which led to a final pitting St. Louis Scullin Steel F.C. from the west and Brooklyn Robins Dry Dock from the east.


== First round ==


=== Eastern Division ===


==== Northern Massachusetts District ====
Byes: Maple Leaf F.C.; Gray & Davis F.C.


==== Southern New England District ====
Byes: Young Thornton F.C.; Potter & Johnson F.C.; Colonial F.C.; Greystone F.C.; Fairlawn Rovers


==== Connecticut District ====
Byes: Stamford F.C.; Ansonia F.C.; Columbia Gramophone Co.


==== Southern New York District ====
Byes: Clan MacDuff F.C.; Brooklyn F.C.; Robins Dry Dock F.C.


==== New Jersey District ====
Byes: Cedar Cliff F.C.


==== Eastern Pennsylvania District ====


=== Western Division ===


==== Michigan District ====
Byes: I.F.L. F.C.; One and All F.C.; Walkerville F.C.; Magyar A.A.F.C.; Caledonia F.C.; Roses F.C.; Ulster F.C.


==== Ohio District ====
Byes: Cleveland Greyhounds F.C.; White Motor Co. F.C.; Goodyear F.C.


==== Northwestern New York District ====
Byes: Oneida Community Co. F.C.; McNaughton Rangers F.C.; Rochester City Moose F.C.; Rochester Celtic F.C.; Camera Works F.C.; Kodak Park F.C.


==== Western Pennsylvania District ====
Bye: Madison F.C.


==== Missouri District ====
Byes: Ben Miller F.C.; St. Louis Screw F.C.; Scullin Steel F.C.; Innisfail F.C.


==== Wisconsin District ====
Bye: Simco F.C.


==== Illinois District ====
Byes: Thistles F.C.; Bricklayers F.C.; Harvey F.C.; Swedish American A.A.; Pullman F.C.; Rangers A.C.; Norwegian American A.A.


== Bracket ==
Home teams listed on top of bracket

(*): replay after tied match
w/o: walkover/forfeit victory awarded


== Final ==


== See also ==
1920–21 American Cup


== References ==


== Sources ==
USOpenCup.com

Bogue Faliah is a stream in the U.S. state of Mississippi.
Bogue Faliah is a name derived from the Choctaw language meaning "long creek". Variant names are "Boga Falia", "Bogue Falia", "Bogue Faliah Creek", "Bogue Filia", "Bogue Filiah", and "Bogue Litto".


== References ==

Michael John Clifford Taylor (24 April 1934 – 4 April 2017) was a British racing driver.  He participated in two Formula One World Championship Grands Prix, debuting on 18 July 1959.  He scored no championship points. He also participated in several non-Championship Formula One races.
His racing career effectively ended when his steering column weld failed on his Lotus 18 in the 1960 Belgian Grand Prix at 160 mph (260 km/h). He was thrown from the car, cutting down a tree with his body and broke several bones (Alan Stacey and Chris Bristow were killed and Stirling Moss was also injured at the event, crashing his Lotus 18 in practice). He was paralysed, but after therapy was able to regain the ability to walk.
Because of his car failure, Taylor later sued Lotus successfully, one of the few successful actions against the makers of a racing car.
After his accident, Taylor sporadically competed in long distance rallying, finishing third in the London–Sydney Marathon in 1977 in a Citroën CX with Paddy Hopkirk and Bob Riley. Taylor also had a career in property speculation. He died on 4 April 2017 after a battle with cancer.


== Complete Formula One World Championship results ==
(key)


== Sources ==

Profile at www.grandprix.com

Cutting on action or matching on action refers to film editing and video editing techniques where the editor cuts from one shot to another view that matches the first shot's action.
A common example is a man walking up to a door and reaching for the knob. Just as his hand touches the knob, the scene cuts to a shot of the door opening from the other side.
Although the two shots may have actually been shot hours apart from each other, cutting on action gives the impression of continuous time when watching the edited film.  By having a subject begin an action in one shot and carry it through to completion in the next, the editor creates a visual bridge, which distracts the viewer from noticing the cut or noticing any slight continuity error between the two shots.
A variant of cutting on action is a cut in which the subject exits the frame in the first shot and then enters the frame in the subsequent shot.  The entrance in the second shot must match the screen direction and motive rhythm of the exit in the first shot.


== Examples ==
Japanese filmmaker Akira Kurosawa had "a tendency to cut from one shot to another on the motion of an actor to hide the cut and avoid calling attention" to it; an example of this is the 1954 film Seven Samurai, where, when "Shichirōji kneels down to comfort" Manzo, the film "cuts on the action of kneeling." Kurosawa's approach to "cutting on motion" has since been widely adopted by many Hollywood blockbuster films, such as Marvel Studios films.
Some films, like Alain Resnais's surreal Muriel ou Le temps d'un retour (1963), play with this technique. Cutting on action is used, instead of accentuating the continuity elements of the action, to trick and confuse the viewer. The director also plays with other aspects of continuity editing, such as subverting the 180 degree rule and shot/reverse shot.


== See also ==
Continuity editing
Match cut
Motion picture terminology


== References ==


=== Cited sources ===


=== Additional sources ===

The Gunsaulus Mystery is a 1921 American silent race film directed, produced, and written by Oscar Micheaux. The film was inspired by events and figures in the 1913–1915 trial of Leo Frank for the murder of Mary Phagan. The film is now believed to be lost. Micheaux remade the film 1935 as Murder in Harlem.


== Plot ==
The body of Myrtle Gunsaulus, a young African-American girl, is discovered in the basement of a New York City factory. Arthur Gilpin, the African-American janitor who discovered the body, is arrested and charged with her murder.
Arthur's sister Ida May (Evelyn Preer) contacts her former boyfriend, the attorney Sidney Wyeth (Lawrence Chenault), to defend Gilpin in court. During the trial, Wyeth redirects attention for the murder away from Gilpin to Anthony Brisbane, a white man with a history of sexual deviancy. Gilpin is exonerated while Brisbane is revealed as Myrtle Gunsaulus's killer.


== Cast ==
Evelyn Preer
Lawrence Chenault
Dick Abrams
Louis De Bulger
Mabel Young
Eddie Brown
Hattie Christian
E. G. Tatum
Mattie Wilkes


== Production ==
Oscar Micheaux, the most prolific African-American filmmaker of the race film genre, had previously addressed the issue of violence by whites against blacks in his 1920 feature Within Our Gates, which aroused controversy. That film's storyline, which included a portrayal of racial lynching and the sexual attack by a white man against a black woman, resulted in censorship rulings in Atlanta and other major cities throughout the U.S.
Micheaux tackled another controversial subject with his 1921 The Gunsaulus Mystery. The plot was based on the 1913 murder of Mary Phagan and the trial of Leo Frank. After an African American was first interrogated, police attention turned to Frank, the Jewish-American manager of the factory.  He was prosecuted and convicted of the crime. After appeals had failed, he received commutation of his death sentence, but Frank was kidnapped and lynched on August 17, 1915.
Micheaux shot The Gunsaulus Mystery at the Estee Studios in New York City and distributed the film through his Micheaux Film Corporation. Evelyn Preer, the star of Within Our Gates, also starred in this production.
Micheaux revisited the subject again in 1935 with a sound remake, which was released under the titles Murder in Harlem and Lem Hawkins' Confession.  Especially in this version, Micheaux used the conventions of the detective story to introduce differing narratives and rework the binary nature of the trial, in which an African-American man and Jewish-American man had testified against each other.
No print of The Gunsaulus Mystery is known to exist in any archive or private collection, and it is considered to be a lost film. Events of the Mary Phagan murder would be covered in detail in the 1988 four-hour TV miniseries The Murder of Mary Phagan.


== See also ==
List of lost films


== References ==


== External links ==

The Gunsaulus Mystery at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films
The Gunsaulus Mystery at IMDb
surviving lantern promo; The Gunsaulus Mystery

Öskjuvatn (Icelandic pronunciation: [ˈœscʏˌvahtn̥] , "Askja Lake") is a lake in the Highlands of Iceland. Its surface area is about 11 km2 (4.2 sq mi). With a depth of 217 m (712 ft), it is the second-deepest lake in Iceland after Jökulsárlón.
The lake is situated in the crater of the volcano Askja in the northeast of the glacier Vatnajökull.  The name Öskjuvatn simply means Askja lake. Like the neighbouring crater Víti, it was created by an enormous volcanic eruption in 1875.


== History ==
The lake was first surveyed in 1876 by Professor Johnstrup and Lieutenant Caroc. It was roughly circular with a diameter of about 4000 feet (1220 m) and 232 m (761 ft) below the floor of Askja caldera. Its water was light-green, and covered from recently erupted pumice, at the temperature of 22 °C (72 °F).
In 1878 the lake was about 600 ft (180 m) below the Askja caldera floor, 5 miles (8.0 km) (8 km) in circumference and at a temperature of 20.5 °C (68.9 °F).
In 1881 the lake temperature was down 12 °C (54 °F).
In 1884 the lake temperature was down 14 °C (57 °F), the northwestern length of the lake was 10,000 ft (3,000 m) and the lake was 150 m (490 ft) below the floor of Askja caldera.

On July 10, 1907, two German scientists, Walter von Knebel and Max Rudloff disappeared while exploring the lake in a small boat. The lake was described at the time as almost
rectangular and about 5 by 3 km (3.1 by 1.9 mi) and 60 m (200 ft) below the floor of Askja caldera. Knebel's fiancée, Ina von Grumbkow, led an expedition in search of them with a vulcanologist Hans Reck, but no trace of them was ever found. Suppositions at the time suggested that seismic volcanic disturbances could have caused a landslip or similar occurrence, and recorded that only two days previously the telegraph cable to Iceland had been broken by deep water disturbances for the first time since it was laid, close to the Icelandic coast. Reck's 1908 measurements were a mean lake temperature of 6.5 °C (43.7 °F), dimensions of 4.5 by 3 km (2.8 by 1.9 mi), no change in surface height, and a depth of more than 140 m (460 ft).
In 1917 the lake surface was found to be 1,011 m (3,317 ft) above sea level, with a temperature of 7.5 °C (45.5 °F).
Hans Reck visited again in 1932 and noted the lakes shape had changed following previous eruptions. There were other eruptions before the first full bathymetry in 1963.
The maximum depth of 217 m (712 ft) was possibly greater in a 2012 survey but temperature corrections precluded an accurate figure. What is known is that the lake floor has subsided since 1876. 


== See also ==
Geography of Iceland
Iceland plume
List of lakes of Iceland
List of rivers of Iceland
Volcanism of Iceland


== References ==


== External links ==
Photo of Askja and the lake

The General Aircraft Company was an American aircraft design and manufacturing company that was formed in the late 1930s and ceased involvement with aircraft in 1976.


== History ==
The company was established at Lowell, Massachusetts to build an aircraft designed by Doctor Otto C. Koppen, a professor of aeronautics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The aircraft was the G1-80 Skyfarer, a two-seat cabin high-wing braced monoplane. The company was applied for its first patent, an airplane wing, in 1939.
Before the company could produce the aircraft in any numbers the Second World War intervened, and the Skyfarer programme was abandoned after either 17 or 18 examples had been built. After establishing a factory in Astoria, New York, the company became a manufacturer of the Waco CG-4A troop glider and the interests in the Wayfarer were passed to Grand Rapids Industries.
The company announced plans to produce a new regional airliner called the GAC-100 at its plant in El Segundo, California in 1968.
In 1969, the company bought the Helio Aircraft Company which specialised in building STOL aircraft for use by government agencies in Southeast Asia. The company ceased to manufacture aircraft in October 1976 when it sold the production rights and assets of its Helio Aircraft division.


== Aircraft ==


== References ==


=== Notes ===


=== Bibliography ===

Amerila lineolata is a moth of the subfamily Arctiinae. It was described by Sergius G. Kiriakoff in 1954. It is found in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.


== References ==

Häuser, Ch. L. & Boppre, M. (1997). "A revision of the Afrotropical taxa of the genus Amerila Walker (Lepidoptera, Arctiidae)". Systematic Entomology. 22 (1): 1-44.
Kiriakoff, S. G.  (1954). "Hétérocères nouveaux ou peu connus du Katanga". Revue de Zoologie et de Botanique Africaines. 50: 169-188.

The votive painting from Šopka is the work of an anonymous disciple of Lucas Cranach the Elder, who worked in north-west Bohemia and is referred to by the initials with which he signed his paintings as the Master IW. The painting was discovered at the end of the 19th century in the parish church, formerly the Augustinian Monastery Church of St. Laurence in Šopka (now Pšovka near Mělník), and is exhibited in the Gallery and Museum of the Litoměřice Diocese.


== Description and classification ==
Double-sided painting in oil tempera on wooden panel 81 x 62 cm. The panel was originally larger and its current dimensions are the result of a cutting in 1662, when it was inserted into a Baroque edifice, or in 1896, when it was reframed. In the Baroque period it was partially, but fortunately unusually sensibly, repainted, thus suppressing its original rich colour. At the same time the background of the back of the panel was repainted and decorated with painted ornament.
The panel was discovered in 1892 by L. Böhm in the sacristy of the parish church of St. Lawrence. Shortly afterwards it was described by Karel Chytil and was to be given to the public picture gallery. The painting was restored in 1896 by J. Heřman (a report on its condition before restoration is given by F. X. Jiřík) and again in 1962–1963 by J. Blažej. The last restoration removed the Baroque overpainting and restored the original authentic appearance of the work. On the front of the panel behind the Death's feet is the signature of the Master IW and an incompletely preserved date, probably 1530.
This votive painting has no direct analogues in domestic or foreign works. The artistic conception, the character of the painting and the execution itself place it among the top works of Master IW. In terms of quality it is comparable to one of Cranach's most important works – his Prague Altarpiece, which was undoubtedly known to Master IW. It is even possible that Master IW, as one of Cranach's most gifted pupils, may have been involved in the creation of this retable. The altar was commissioned before 1520, when the painter was working as a journeyman in Cranach's workshop.
The two sides of the panel can be understood in a unity of content. The Sorrowful Christ or the risen Saviour and victor over death has his hands raised as in the depictions of the Last Judgement and shows the wounds – a symbol of the sacrifice made for the sake of the vindication of mankind. In conjunction with the adoration of the donor, Christ represents the mediator between God and man and is depicted in the spirit of the mystery of the Trinity as the believer's gateway to the kingdom of heaven. On the reverse side is depicted the God of Grace (the Throne of Grace, "Gnadenstuhl", lat. sedes gratiae)) who sacrificed his son for the salvation of mankind. The high-resolution image as well as the Infrared reflectography is stored in the Cranach Digital Archive.


=== Front side ===
The front side of the board stands out from the rest of Master IW's work. Here the painter has shown an unusual degree of his own inventiveness and combinatory skills. The Donor kneels before the Sorrowful Christ and the Grim Reaper with a scythe and hourglass. The scene is framed by Renaissance architecture. In contrast to the well-known Zlíchov retable by Master IP, where Christ, at the intercession of the Virgin Mary, acts as a saviour from Death, this painting captures a situation that can be interpreted as a crucial fateful event. Christ standing between the supplicant and Death can be seen as a symbol of infinite grace, calling for the spiritual empowerment of human life through repentance and prayer. The painting is characterized by the extraordinary quality of execution, subtle gradations and careful handling of details. Compared to the works of Lucas Cranach the Elder, Master IW's painting is characterized by a greater softness of expression, emotionality and lyricism, which correspond to the domestic Czech artistic environment.
A similar theme is depicted in the earlier Votive Panel of the Švihovsky family (1504/05) from the workshop of Master of the Chudenický Altarpiece. The motif of the Sorrowful Christ with outstretched arms is known from a woodcut by Albrecht Dürer (1500), as is the painting of Death and the Hourglass (1510).


=== Reverse side ===
The back of the board depicts the Holy Trinity as the so-called "Throne of Grace". The enthroned God the Father, holding the crucified Jesus Christ, looks down with fixed eyes on the faithful, inviting them to personal contemplation of the divine mercy that sacrificed a son for the salvation of mankind and the redemption of sins. The gilded background is surrounded by clouds with figures of angels. The dove above the head of God the Father, symbolizing the Holy Spirit, was slightly damaged when the plate was cut. The whiteness of Christ's body contrasts with the red robe of God the Father and his brown velvet cloak with green lining. The painter took special care in depicting the gilded and precious-stone decorated border of the cloak.
Only ten years older (1520) is the Altarpiece with the Holy Trinity by the Master of the Litoměřice Altarpiece. Of Cranach's works, the Holy Trinity from the Castle Church in Chemnitz (1515–1525) is the closest to this painting in terms of composition.


=== Details of the painting ===


== History of the painting ==
The painting was preserved despite looting of the monastery in the early 17th century. It can be presumed that the donor of the painting was a nobleman buried in the church. The family burial ground in the sacristy of the church and the Marian chapel was founded by Zdislav Berka of Dubá and Lipá, but he only acquired the Mělník estate in 1542, which rules out his connection with the painting. At the time of the presumed creation of the Master IW's panel, the right of patronage was held by Radslav Beřkovský of Šebířov and Liběchov (1476–1537), a knight and between 1512–1523 and 1525–1537 the chief scribe and royal secretary. In 1529–31, Radslav Beřkovský was, along with Zdeněk Lev of Rožmitál and Vojtěch of Pernštejn (for the noble status), together with Volfart Planknar of Kynšperk, provincial governor for the knighthood. The nobleman depicted could also be Jaroslav Hasištejnský z Lobkovic (brother of Jan and Bohuslav Hasištejnský z Lobkovic), who resided in nearby Obříství and died in 1529. Three of his children, who died shortly after their birth, were buried in the monastery.


== References ==


== Sources ==
Hamsíková Magdalena, Recepce díla Lucase Cranacha st. v malířství první poloviny 16. století v Čechách / Reception of the work of Lucas Cranach Sr. in the painting of the first half of the 16th century in Bohemia, dissertation, Faculty of Arts, Charles University Prague, 2011
Kesner, Ladislav st., Mistr IW – votivní obraz ze Pšovky s Kristem, Smrtí a prosebníkem, Mělník – Pšovka / Master IW – votive painting from Pšovka with Christ, Death and the supplicant, Mělník – Pšovka. Proceedings published on the occasion of the rededication of the church of St. Lawrence in Mělník-Pšovka restored after the flood of 2002. 15 August 2004 / Špačková, Renata Mělník : Město Mělník, 2004, 92 p., il., pp. 54–61, ISBN 80-239-3338-8
Macek Petr, Beránek Jan, Zahradník Pavel: Bývalý klášter bosých augustiniánů v Pšovce u Mělníka / The former monastery of the barefoot Augustinians in Pšovka near Mělník, in: Průzkumy památek VIII, no. 2, 2001, pp. 7–37
Kesner Ladislav, Mistr IW / Master IW, Galerie výtvarného umění Litoměřice 1993
Pešina Jaroslav, Paralipomena k dějinám českého malířství pozdní gotiky a renesance. Osm kapitol dodatků an oprav k české malbě deskové 1450–1550 / Paralipomena to the History of Czech Painting of the Late Gothic and Renaissance. Eight chapters of additions and corrections to Czech panel painting 1450–1550, Chapter VI, pp. 325–375 in: Umění XV, 1967, Praha
Kohoutek J, Oprava votivního obrazu ze Šopky od Mistra IW / Repair of a votive painting from Šopka by Master IW, in: Umění XII, s. 616–621, 1964
Pešina Jaroslav, Česká malba pozdní gotiky a renesance / Czech Painting of the Late Gothic and Renaissance, Prague 1950, pp. 82–83, p. 130, cat. no. 383-384
Matějček A, Nepoznaný obraz monogramisty IW v Praze / The unrecognized painting of the IW monogramist in Prague, in. Kniha o Praze. Pražský almanach II., Prague 1931
Chytil Karel: České malířství prvního desetiletí XVI. století, in: Ročenka kruhu pro pěstování dějin umění za rok 1930 / Czech Painting of the First Decade of the XVIth Century, in: Yearbook of the Circle for the Cultivation of Art History for 1930, 1931, pp. 34–35


== External links ==
Expozice Diecézního muzea v Litoměřicích / Expositions of the Diocesan Museum in Litoměřice Archived 2022-12-11 at the Wayback Machine
Museum Chomutov: Der Meister IW Archived 2022-12-11 at the Wayback Machine

Khordha district is an administrative district of the state of Odisha, India. It was formed on April 1, 1993, by the division of former Puri District into Puri, Khordha and Nayagarh districts. In the year 2000 the district name was changed to Khordha. The district headquarters is Khordha Town. The capital city of Bhubaneswar is located in this district. Khordha is the most urbanized of all the districts of Odisha.
Khordha Road, the railway station that serves the town, is also the divisional headquarters of the East Coast Railway of the Indian Railways, and contains its own division. Khordha is known for its brass utensils, cottage industries, railway coach manufacturing and cable manufacturing unit and consumer food manufacturing unit of various MNCs like Coca-Cola, Pepsi,
Unilever, ITC etc.


== History ==

It was the capital of Odisha from 1568 to 1803. It is also known for its fort, often described as the "last independent fort". The commander who kept it free from British East India Company was Bakshi Jagabandhu, popularly called 'Paika Bakshi'.
The Savaras tribal group, who are still to be found in the district in some pockets, once heavily populated the area. Khurda came into prominence when the first Rajas of the Khordha dynasty, Ramachandra Deva, made it the capital of his kingdom during the latter part of the 16th century. Khurda suffered repeated onslaughts from Muslim and Maratha cavalry but its royal house retained independence till 1804, when the British East India Company dispossessed Raja of his territory following the Second Anglo-Maratha War.
British government took Odisha under its rule in 1803 but could only include Khurda in 1827. The Paikas of Khurda are known for protesting against the British rule in Odisha.


== Geography ==
It is also the district headquarters of Khurda district located at 20.11° N 85.40° E. The area of the district is 2,813 km2 (1,086 sq mi). The district is bordered by Cuttack district to the north and east, Puri district to the south, Ganjam district to the west, and Nayagarh district to the northwest. The Daya and Kuakhai Rivers flow through Khurda. The forested area is 618.67 km2 (238.87 sq mi). The district is mainly flat coastal plain, with some hill ranges in the west. It borders the Chilika Lake.


=== Climate ===

Temperature: 41.4 (max), 9.5 (min)
Rainfall: 1443 mm (avg)


== Economy ==
It is renowned for its brass utensils cottage industries, cable factory, spinning mills, watch repairing factory, railway coach repairing factory, oil industries, Coca-Cola bottling plant and small metal industries, or sms group, Iocl gas bottling plant.


== Divisions ==
Parliamentary constituencies: 2
Assembly constituencies: 6
Subdivisions: 2
Villages: 1,561
Blocks: 10
Grama panchayat: 168
Tehsils: 08
Towns: 6
Municipality: 2 (Khordha, Jatni)
Municipal Corporation: 1 (Bhubaneshwar)
N.A.C: 3 (Tangi, Balugaon, Banpur )


=== Blocks ===
Balianta
Balipatna
Banapur
Begunia
Bhubaneswar
Bolagarh
Chilika
Jatni
Khordha
Tangi


=== Subdivisions ===
Source:

Bhubaneswar: consists of 4 blocks, viz. Balianta, Balipatana, Jatni, Bhubaneswar.
Khurda: consists of 6 blocks, viz. Tangi, Khorda sadara, Banapur, Begunia, Bolgarh and Chilika.


== Demographics ==

According to the 2011 census Khordha district has a population of 2,251,673, roughly equal to the nation of Latvia or the US state of New Mexico. This gives it a ranking of 201st in India (out of a total of 640). The district has a population density of 799 inhabitants per square kilometre (2,070/sq mi). Its population growth rate over the decade 2001-2011 was 19.65%. Khordha has a sex ratio of 925 females for every 1000 males, and a literacy rate of 87.51%. 48.16% of the population lives in urban areas. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes make up 13.21% and 5.11% of the population respectively.

At the time of the 2011 Census of India, 92.13% of the population in the district spoke Odia, 1.98% Urdu, 1.69% Telugu, 1.55% Hindi, 1.38% Bengali and 0.43% Santali as their first language.


== Politics ==


=== Vidhan sabha constituencies ===

The following are the eight Vidhan sabha constituencies of Khordha district and their elected members.


=== Lok Sabha constituencies ===
During the 1952 general election, Pandit Lingraj Mishra was elected from the Khurda (Lok Sabha constituency). From 1957 onwards, members were elected from Bhubaneswar (Lok Sabha constituency).


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

The 25th Rhythmic Gymnastics European Championships was opened on May 15, 2009, in Baku, Azerbaijan in the Heydar Aliyev Sports-Concert Complex and ended on May 17. 186 gymnasts from 32 countries were scheduled to participate.
Gazelle has chosen to be the official symbol of this tournament. The Head of the European Union of Gymnastics Dimitrios Dimitropulos said an official opening ceremony that "the championship has been organized in line with high standards".


== Medal winners ==


== Senior Results ==


=== Team ===


=== Rope ===


=== Hoop ===


=== Ball ===


=== Ribbon ===


== Junior Results ==


=== Group 5 ribbons ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Official site (English version)

The Elgins were an American vocal group on the Motown label, active from the late 1965 to 1967. Their most successful record was "Heaven Must Have Sent You", written and produced by the Holland–Dozier–Holland team, which was a hit in the US in 1966, and in the UK when reissued in 1971.


== Career ==
Founding members Robert Fleming, Johnny Dawson, Cleo "Duke" Miller and Norman McLean recorded together for various small labels in Detroit prior to their Motown days, as The Sensations, The Five Emeralds, and The Downbeats, and also recorded as The Downbeats for Motown in 1962. The record company suggested that they add female lead vocalist Saundra Mallett, who had recorded unsuccessfully for the label, backed by The Vandellas; she later married and became Saundra Edwards. The new group's first single release was "Put Yourself In My Place", issued in December 1965; early copies credited the record to the Downbeats, but Berry Gordy wanted to use the name Elgins, which had previously been one of the names used by The Temptations. The record rose to no. 4 on the Billboard R&B chart and no. 72 on the Billboard Hot 100, and its B-side, "Darling Baby", also made the Hot 100. Several months later, they issued "Heaven Must Have Sent You", which again reached both the R&B and pop charts, becoming their biggest pop hit. They also released an album, Darling Baby. However, their follow-up single, "I Understand My Man," was less successful, and the group broke up in 1967.
With the continuing popularity of Motown records in the UK fuelled by the Northern soul scene, "Heaven Must Have Sent You" was reissued in 1971 and peaked at no. 3 on the UK Singles Chart. "Put Yourself in My Place" was also reissued and made the chart. With Saundra Mallett Edwards being unwilling to rejoin the group, the Elgins toured the UK with former session vocalist Yvonne Vernee Allen taking her place. One of Yvonne Vernee's solo singles from the 1960s, "Just Like You Did Me", also became popular on the Northern soul scene, especially at Wigan Casino Soul Allnighters. Vernee also recorded some material with The Elgins at Motown, but none of it saw release. Bonnie Pointer recorded a hit version of "Heaven Must Have Sent You" in 1979, and, in 1989, Vernee, Dawson, McLean and Jimmy Charles recorded a new arrangement of the song in the style of Pointer's disco version for producer Ian Levine and it was released as a single that same year. They made several further recordings for Levine's Motorcity label in the 1990s, and two albums, Take the Train (1990) and Sensational (1991), were released. A second single, "It's Sensational", was released in 1992, and a compilation album of their Motorcity material, The Best of the Elgins, was released in 1996. Saundra Edwards also made separate recordings for the same label. She died in February 2002.
A 1997 British import CD paired their album Darling Baby with one by The Monitors, another group that recorded for Motown with limited success, and which featured future Temptation, Richard Street. Recordings of the group, including their Motown album, all singles and unreleased recordings up to 1968, can be found on The Motown Anthology, released in 2007.
Johnny Dawson died in September 2018. Norman McLean died on November 17, 2024.


== Discography ==


=== Albums ===
1966: Darling Baby (V.I.P. VM400)
1968: Darling Baby (UK issue) (Tamla Motown STML/TML11081)
1990: Take the Train (MOTCLP 39)
1991: Sensational (MOTCCD 75)
1996: The Best of the Elgins (HTCD 7733-2)
1997: The Elgins Meet the Monitors (UK issue) (Marginal ISO 9002)
2007: The Motown Anthology (UK issue) (Universal UK B000OONPO0)


=== Singles ===


== References ==


== External links ==
The Elgins discography at Discogs
A biography of the Elgins
Elgins discography
The Elgins at IMDb

The Terebovlia Castle 
(Ukrainian: Теребовлянський замок) is a ruined 17th-century castle in the town of Terebovlia in western Ukraine.
The ruins are located on the edge of Gniezny canyon, near its mouth to Seret River. The fortification, the remains of which can still be seen, was built in the 1630s under the leadership of the Terebovlian starosta Aleksander Bałaban.


== History ==
There have been at least three fortresses on the castle hill in Terebovlia. The first historical castle in the town, mentioned in the Old Russian writing Primary Chronicle, was a castle erected in 9th/10th century. The city achieved its greatest power during the reign of Prince Vasylko Rostyslavych, the great-grandson of the Grand Duke of Kiev Yaroslav the Wise.
Prince Vasylko Rostyslavych's fortress was a wooden, enclosed palisade, and only the castle church within it was built of stone. The fortress had several defensive lines, but there was no water well. Archeologists suggest that the water was brought here underground or simply filled the reservoirs. This original castle was not like the one that has survived until now. Even the entrance to it was not from the east, as it is now, but from the north - from the modern park. There were cellars under the castle.
After the death of Vasylko Rostyslavych in 1124, the Principality of Terebovlia became part of the Principality of Halych, and later part of the Halych-Volhynia principality. With the reign of Vladimir Igorevich of the Izyaslavych family, Terebovlya regained its independence. However, in 1211, in the battle with the Magyars, the prince was captured and executed along with his brothers and father. In those days, the wooden walls of the castle were replaced by stone, but in 1241 Terebovlia was completely destroyed by the hordes of Batu Khan. In 1341 the city is already mentioned as being conquered by the Poles. In 1346 the Polish king Casimir III the Great rebuilt the fortress. Little is known about this newer castle, but it was stone and walled. In 1448 Kazimierz Jagiellończyk stayed here. In 1534, the castle was extended by Kraków castellan Andrzej Tęczyński.

During the 15th and 16th centuries Terebovlya fortress declined in importance due to constant attacks by Tatars. Within a few months, the Terebovlian Andrzej Tęczyński - a castellan of the then Polish capital of Krakow - rebuilt it at his own expense. The necessity of repairing the castle was mentioned in the privilege of King Stephen Báthory from 30 November 1576 (a copy was preserved  ).
In 1594 (July 1595 ), Terebovlya was acquired by Severyn Nalyvaiko, but the castle was not damaged at that time. At the end of the 16th century the castle was repaired by the Terebovlian headman Jakub Pretwitch.
From 1605-1625 the castle's importance declined after suffering 15 attacks by Crimean Tatars. Following these events, it was the turn of the fortress to build a stroll now. In 1631 the castle was rebuilt by the Trembowel starosta Andrzej Bałaban. The walls reach 3.5-5m in thickness and up to 18m in height. The entrance to the castle was made at height of 3m above the ground and could only be reached with the help of a special platform. It is suggested that during this castle renovation the church with grave of prince Vasylko Rostyslavych was destroyed.
Cossacks captured castle in 1648, but after the armistice it was occupied by the Poles and frequently resisted attacks by Cossacks, Turks and Tatars.

In course of Polish–Ottoman War (1672–1676) Terebovlia castle became an important border fortress after the partition of Podolia by Turkey in 1671. Armistice in war followed by Treaty of Buchach which ultimately was rejected by Sejm of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and war resumed. In 1675 Mehmed IV sent a new 10,000-strong Turkish-Tatar army under command of Pasha Ibrahim Shyshman  to enter Ukraine and on 20 September the siege of Terebovlya began. Despite considerable numerical advantage, Pasha Ibrahim Shyshman was unable to capture the castle and on 11 October retreated south in anticipation of the early start of winter season. This saved the rest of Podillya, Galicia from the attack.
Terebovlia castle became famous for its heroic defense against Tatars and Turks.

During the 18th and 19th centuries the castle was left unattended and decayed. The lower parts of the walls have been preserved. Currently the castle belongs to the Castles of Ternopil Oblast National Reserve.


== See also ==
Battle of Trembowla


== References ==

Bow Bowing () is a suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Bow Bowing is located 49 kilometres south-west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government area of the City of Campbelltown and is part of the Macarthur region.


== History ==
The suburb Bow Bowing draws its name from a local creek. The creek's name is probably of aboriginal origin since it was originally spelt Boro Borang and later corrupted. The name Bow Bowing was only chosen for the suburb in 1975 and for more than one hundred years prior to that it was known as Saggart's Field after a local family. A school built in 1866 was named Saggart Field School although it was renamed Minto Public School in 1884.
The land in the area was purchased by the Housing Commission in 1976 with the intention of building over one thousand homes in the relatively small area of the new suburb. Local concerns, particularly over other Housing Commission developments in the area, forced the original plan to be shelved. The land was subsequently sold to private developers who built 350 homes in the area. The development was officially opened in 1990.


== Population ==
According to the 2021 census, there were 1,606 people in Bow Bowing. 59.5% of people were born in Australia. 58.5% of people spoke only English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Arabic at 5.4%. The most common responses for religion in Bow Bowing were Catholic 27.1%, No Religion 18.1%, Islam 12.6%, Anglican 9.6% and Hinduism 8.2%.


== References ==

The Historian is a 2014 drama film written, directed, produced by Miles Doleac. The film also stars Doleac along with William Sadler, Colin Cunningham, Jillian Taylor, Glynnis O'Connor, Leticia Jimenez and John Cullum.


== Plot ==
The film follows history professor Dr. Ben Rhodes who has confrontational relationship with his new boss Dr. Valerian Hadley played by William Sadler. Hadley is also the faculty adviser for Anna Densmore played by Jillian Taylor and who develops a problematic sexual relationship with Rhodes. However, Rhodes also has a supposedly non-romantic sexual relationship with Stacey Castillo played by  Leticia Jimenez. All the relationships come to a dramatic confrontation in the end which includes a sexual assault which Cynthia Kirkeby of the Point Of View Reviews describes as likely to "polarize many discussions around the script."


== Reception ==
The Historian was the first feature-length movie from Historia Films. It first premiered May 20 New York City's SoHo International Film Festival. It was also featured in the Los Angeles's Dances With Films 17.  On July 11, it opened the Long Island International Film Expo in Bellmore, New York. On October 20, it was featured at the Gulfport Sun and Sand Film Festival. Also in Mississippi, it was shown locally at theaters in Hattiesburg and D'Iberville starting on November 7.
The Historian has garnered mixed receptions from the few critics that have reviewed. Ben Kenigsberg of The New York Times stated, "Despite low production values, The Historian... sustains curiosity over what.. is a long running time." While Serena Donadoni of The Village Voice derides Doleac as "a filmmaker [who] can't reconcile all his story lines."


== Cast ==
William Sadler as Dr. Valerian Hadley
Miles Doleac as Dr. Ben Rhodes
Colin Cunningham as Chris Fletcher
Jillian Taylor as Anna Densmore
Glynnis O'Connor as Dean Jan Messer
Leticia Jimenez as Stacey Castillo
John Cullum as Brigston Hadley


== References ==


== External links ==
The Historian at IMDb

Captain Pushpendra Kumar Garg (born 22 November 1963) is an Indian sportsperson in yachting.
He was born in Sasni in Aligarh district (Now it situated at Hathras district) of Uttar Pradesh. He studied at Sainik School, Lucknow, and the National Defence Academy, Khadakvasla before joining the Indian Navy.


== Career ==
He formed a team with Homi Motivala and won the bronze medal in the enterprise class at the 1990 and 1994 Asian Games held at Beijing and Hiroshima respectively. They were also the world champions in the same class in 1993.
He won the gold medal at the 1993 Enterprise Class World Championship in Zimbabwe and silver medal in 1997 Enterprise Class World Championship in Goa, India. In 2021 he was appointed as the CEO of Sports Authority of India.


== Awards ==
P. K. Garg received the Arjuna award for best performance in Yachting for the year 1990 and the Major Dhyan Chand Khel Ratna award jointly with Homi Motivala for overall best performance in sports for the year 1994–95 from the Government of India.


== References ==


== External links ==

Berezovka (Russian: Берёзовка; Altay: Кайыҥду-Бел, Kayıñdu-Bel) is a rural locality (a settlement) in Ognyovskoye Rural Settlement of Ust-Koksinsky District, the Altai Republic, Russia. The population was 246 as of 2016. There are 6 streets.


== Geography ==
Berezovka is located on the left bank of the Katun River, 9 km southwest of Ust-Koksa (the district's administrative centre) by road. Ognyovka is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

Vermont has a long history with ice hockey in the United States. Despite the state's sparse population, its location in New England placed Vermont in the middle of ice hockey circles, particularly at the college level.


== History ==
The close proximity to Canada afforded Vermont with a very close view of ice hockey as far back as the 19th century. Several local clubs were arranged but nothing formal occurred until 1909. One of those amateur teams was put together by a group of students at Norwich University. After garnering some interest from the student body, the school gave its blessing to the program and the first sanctioned team in Vermont hit the ice the following year. Unfortunately, a lack of facilities left the Cadets scrambling to find available ice and eventually forced the program to be suspended in 1913. After World War I, ice hockey returned to the state when Middlebury began its men's program. They were joined that season by Saint Michael's which, aside from cutting down on travel costs, provided each with a local rival. With an increasing number of rinks in the state, Norwich was able to secure a home venue and return in 1925. That same year, the state's flagship university, Vermont also hit the ice, giving the state a solid foundation with the sport. However, after the Great Depression the cost of business became too much. During the 1930s, Norwich, Vermont and Saint Michael's were each forced to suspend operations. Only Middlebury was able to carry on through the difficulties.
Eventually the financial situation improved and Norwich returned to the ice by the end of the 30s. Just as the others were considering revivals of their own, World War II broke out and all programs were mothballed in the early 40s. Once the war had ended, Middlebury and Norwich restarted in short order with Saint Michael's making an abortive attempt in the 50s. The Catamounts, however, did not get back onto the ice until the 1960s. Despite the long wait, the team was very successful in its return, winning three league championships over a 5-year span. Vermont promoted its program to the top division in 1974 and has remained there ever since, albeit with less success. In the meantime, Middlebury flited with a championship in the late 1970s, however, because the school was a member of NESCAC, they were forbidden from playing in national tournaments. Despite that barrier, ice hockey in Vermont was flourishing in the late 70s and eventually the Green Mountain state became a foursome once more when Saint Michael's was able to bring its team back in 1982.
In the mid-90s, the NESCAC changed its rules and finally allowed its member school to participate in national tournaments. Within a year, Middlebury won its first championship and proceeded to win the next four as well. The Panthers became the first team in college hockey history to win five consecutive championships. Spurred on by their long-time rival, Norwich was able to win its first championship in 2000, ending Middlebury's run. In the first decade of the 21st century, five additional Division III national titles were won by Middlebury and Norwich, making the state the center of D-III ice hockey.
The success of the men's programs led to increased interest from other quarters. Middlebury was the first Division II or III college to found a women's team, playing its inaugural season in 1981. The other Vermont schools were slower on the uptake but by 2006 each of them was sporting a women's program as well. With so much college hockey going on in the state, eventually the sport spilled over into different branches. Vermont high schools had long sported varsity programs but the state did not receive its first formal junior team until 2000. The Green Mountain Glades were members of the Eastern Junior Hockey League, a Tier III league, and survived for over a decade before relocating to Maine. Two years after their departure, a second low-level junior team arrived. The Vermont Lumberjacks continued to call the state home, as of 2023, and have been relatively successful on the ice.
In terms of professional hockey, Vermont has seen very little interest. With the state's most populous city being Burlington at just north of 44,000 residents (ranked 870th in the nation in 2020), Vermont just doesn't have enough people to support a pro team. To date, only one attempt was made and it proved to be rather disastrous; the Vermont Wild played during the fall of 2011. At the start the team performed about as well as could be expected for an expansion team but their attendance figures were woeful. Playing out of the 1,000-seat Green Mountain Arena, the Wild only could get about 1/4 of the venue filled. The showing was so dismal that the team only played 10 of their scheduled 53 games before folding.


== Teams ==


=== Professional ===


==== Inactive ====


=== Collegiate ===


==== Active ====


=== Junior ===


==== Active ====


==== Inactive ====


=== Timeline ===

  Active     Active (out of state)  


== Players ==


=== Notable players by city ===

Vermont has a very high level of engagement with ice hockey. In 2022, 0.663% of the population was registered with USA Hockey, or about 1 in every 150 people. That was good enough for 4th in the nation, ahead of traditional hotbeds like Massachusetts and Michigan. With the state's low overall population that only translates to approximately 4,000 people, however, that hasn't stopped several Vermont natives from making a name in the sport.

Charles Adams was a grocery store magnate and avid fan. He founded the Boston Bruins, the first NHL team in the US.
John LeClair was the first person from Vermont to both win a Stanley Cup and a medal at the Winter Olympics.
Amanda Pelkey was a 4-year player at Vermont and went on to win a gold medal at the 2018 Winter Olympics.
Gary Wright played collegiately at Vermont and coached ice hockey for over 40 years.


==== Barre ====


==== Burlington ====


==== Montpelier ====


==== Newport ====


==== Norwich ====


==== Shelburne ====


==== St. Albans ====


==== Stowe ====

† relocated from elsewhere.


== References ==

Anders Jochumsen (born 28 January 1981) is a Danish former professional footballer and manager. He is currently working as a youth development coach at Vallensbæk IF.
He has represented the Danish Under-21, Under-19,  Under-17 and Under-16 national teams a total of 25 times scoring 5 goals. [1]


== Career ==
Jochumsen started out as a trainee with Brøndby IF and has since represented several Danish clubs including Odense Boldklub and Akademisk Boldklub before moving to Lyngby Boldklub in the summer of 2006. He scored 16 league goals for Lyngby Boldklub in his first season with them. [2]
On 7 August 2007 he got a free transfer from Lyngby BK, the day after he announced that he would continue his career in Fremad Amager in the Danish Second Division. He played for the club until March 2009. Later he played for Brønshøj BK, Vanløse IF, Avedøre IF and Stenløse BK.
In June 2010 he was named joint manager of Stenløse BK together with Thomas Skov. In June 2011 he replaced Anders Sundstrup as manager of Greve Fodbold.


== References ==
^ DBU
^ Lyngby Boldklub
Anders Jochumsen ny assistent i Frem‚ bold.dk, 24 June 2016

The 2000 United States presidential election in North Dakota took place on November 7, 2000, and was part of the 2000 United States presidential election. Voters chose three representatives, or electors to the Electoral College, who voted for president and vice president.
North Dakota was won by Governor George W. Bush with a double-digit margin of victory of 27.6%. Bush won most of the counties of the state. He won all but two counties: Rolette County, which Gore won with 61% of the vote and Sioux County, which Gore won with 70% of the vote. North Dakota gave Pat Buchanan his best performance in the nation with 2.5% of the vote, whilst third-party candidates performed very well overall, obtaining a total of 6.6% of the vote.
Winning 60.66% of the popular vote, North Dakota proved to be Bush's fifth strongest state in the 2000 election after Wyoming, Idaho, Utah and Nebraska.


== Results ==


=== Results by county ===


==== Counties that flipped from Democratic to Republican ====


=== By congressional district ===
Due to the state's low population, only one congressional district is allocated. This district is an at-large district, because it covers the entire state, and thus is equivalent to the statewide election results.


== Electors ==

Technically the voters of North Dakota cast their ballots for electors: representatives to the Electoral College. North Dakota is allocated 3 electors because it has 1 congressional district and 2 senators. All candidates who appear on the ballot or qualify to receive write-in votes must submit a list of 3 electors, who pledge to vote for their candidate and their running mate. Whoever wins the majority of votes in the state is awarded all 3 electoral votes. Their chosen electors then vote for president and vice president. Although electors are pledged to their candidate and running mate, they are not obligated to vote for them. An elector who votes for someone other than their candidate is known as a faithless elector.
The electors of each state and the District of Columbia met on December 18, 2000 to cast their votes for president and vice president. The Electoral College itself never meets as one body. Instead the electors from each state and the District of Columbia met in their respective capitols.
The following were the members of the Electoral College from the state. All were pledged to and voted for George W. Bush and Dick Cheney:

Rosemarie Myrdal
Edward T. Schafer
Bryce Streibel


== See also ==
United States presidential elections in North Dakota
Presidency of George W. Bush


== References ==

Pseudamnicola pisolinus is a species of mollusc in the genus Pseudamnicola.
This is a taxon inquirendum.


== References ==

Bank, R. A.; Neubert, E. (2017). Checklist of the land and freshwater Gastropoda of Europe. Last update: July 16, 2017.


== External links ==
Boeters, H. D. & Falkner, G. (2017). The genus Mercuria Boeters, 1971 in France (Gastropoda: Caenogastropoda: Hydrobiidae). West-European Hydrobiidae, Part 13. Zoosystema. 39 (2): 227-261

The Georgia, Carolina and Northern Railway was a Southeastern railroad that began after Reconstruction and operated up until the start of the 20th century.  It ran from Monroe, North Carolina to Atlanta, Georgia and later became part of the Seaboard Air Line Railroad.


== History ==


=== Construction and early years ===
The Georgia, Carolina and Northern Railway was founded in 1886 with the goal of building a line from Monroe, North Carolina, to Atlanta, Georgia. Construction on the line began in 1887 in North Carolina.
By 1892 the railroad had almost completed its original plan when a court injunction halted its progress into Atlanta. As a result, the GC&N developed the Seaboard Air Line Belt Railroad. The Seaboard Air Line Belt Railroad ran about 8 miles (13 km) from Belt Junction (near Emory University) west to the Nashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis Railway for which the Georgia, Carolina and Northern Railway had trackage rights into Atlanta. In 1898 the railroad acquired the Loganville and Lawrenceville Railroad.


=== Seaboard Air Line years ===

In 1901 the GC&N was formally merged into the Seaboard Air Line Railway.  The Seaboard operated the line as their Abbeville Subdivision from Monroe to Abbeville, South Carolina and as their Atlanta Subdivision from Abbeville to Atlanta.  The Seaboard primarily used the line for passenger services to Atlanta.  The Silver Comet, The Cherry Blossoms, and The Capitol were passenger trains that ran the line daily from Monroe to Atlanta.


=== Later years ===
In 1967, the Seaboard Air Line merged with its rival, the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad (ACL).  The merged company was named the Seaboard Coast Line Railroad (SCL).  Seaboard Coast Line designated the entire line from Monroe to Atlanta as the Abbeville Subdivision.  The Silver Comet was discontinued the following year.
In 1980, the Seaboard Coast Line's parent company merged with the Chessie System, creating the CSX Corporation.  The CSX Corporation initially operated the Chessie and Seaboard Systems separately until 1986, when they were merged into CSX Transportation.  CSX would later truncate the Abbeville Subdivision designation at Abbeville with track north of there being annexed to the Monroe Subdivision.


== Current operations ==
The full line is still in service today and it is still operated by CSX Transportation.  The line is the primary route from the Northeast to Atlanta, and it is dispatched by Centralized traffic control.


=== Monroe to Abbeville ===

The line from Monroe to Abbeville is now part of the CSX's Monroe Subdivision.  The Monroe Subdivision also includes track from Monroe to just outside of Hamlet, North Carolina.


=== Abbeville Subdivision ===

From Abbeville to Tucker, Georgia, the line is CSX's Abbeville Subdivision.  The Abbeville Subdivision connects with CSX's Gainesville Midland Subdivision and the Hartwell Railroad in Athens, Georgia.  It also serves Total Distribution Services Inc. (TDSI), a CSX subsidiary, near Lawrenceville, Georgia.


=== Tucker to Atlanta ===

The line from Tucker to Atlanta is part of CSX's Atlanta Terminal Subdivision, which also includes the company's other rail lines within Atlanta.


== Historic stations ==


== References ==

Fontanes-du-Causse (French pronunciation: [fɔ̃tan dy kos]; Languedocien: Fontanas del Causse) is a former commune in the Lot department in south-western France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Cœur de Causse. Its population was 62 in 2022.


== See also ==
Communes of the Lot department


== References ==

The Spanish House is a historic house at 46 Fernwood Road in West Hartford, Connecticut.  Built in 1928, it is the only Spanish Colonial Revival house in the town, and a well-preserved and documented exemplar of the style.  The house was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on June 14, 1979.


== Description and history ==
The Spanish House is located in a residential area of eastern West Hartford, on the northwest side of a bend in Fernwood Road east of Steele Road.  It is a U-shaped 1+1⁄2-story structure, with the legs running north–south and enclosing a courtyard that is open at the southern end.  The walls are masonry finished in stucco, and the roof is red tile.  Wrought iron elements accent the exterior, and portions of the interior have painted landscapes and abstract patterns executed by N. Ross Parke, a Hartford artist.  A two-car garage, integral to the structure, projects north from the eastern leg of the U, and is accessed via a semicircular drive on the east side of the property.
The house was designed by the Hartford architect Lester Scheide in consultation with his patron, Grace M. Spear Lincoln, a Hartford native who had lived in Spain.  The Spanish architectural style exhibited by the house is unique to the period for central Connecticut.  The house was built in 1928, Fernwood Road having been platted for development in 1925.  Interior floor tiles and fountains were imported from Spain.  The entire history of the house's design and construction is documented through sketches, plans, and bills.


== See also ==
National Register of Historic Places listings in West Hartford, Connecticut


== References ==

Wangenies (Walloon: Wandjniye) is a village of Wallonia, and a district of the municipality of Fleurus, located in the province of Hainaut, Belgium. 
It was its own municipality prior to the fusion of municipalities of 1977.


== References ==

Richard Nelson Swett (born May 1, 1957) is an American politician and diplomat from the U.S. state of New Hampshire who served as the U.S. representative for New Hampshire's 2nd congressional district from 1991 to 1995. He also served as the U.S. ambassador to Denmark from 1998 to 2001.


== Early life, education and career ==
Swett was born in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania and moved to New Hampshire with his family as a child. He attended Yale University and then became an architect in San Francisco.


== Political career ==

Swett became active in the Democratic Party and eventually began a political career. He was elected to the United States House of Representatives in November 1990 but was subsequently defeated in his November 1994 re-election bid.
In the run up to Swett's 1990 campaign, former Governor of New Hampshire Meldrim Thomson, Jr. complained unsuccessfully that listing him on the ballot as "Dick Swett" would be unlawfully misleading, since he was listed as "Lantos-Swett" in the telephone book, voter registration, deed to real property, and business.
Mitt Romney donated $250 to his 1992 campaign. They were fellow Mormons with homes on Lake Winnipesaukee.
In 1994, Swett voted for a bill to ban assault weapons that narrowly passed by two votes in the United States House of Representatives. His stand resulted in numerous threats against his life.
In 1996, Swett ran as a Democratic Party candidate for the Class 2 seat in the United States Senate from New Hampshire, against incumbent Republican Bob Smith, but was narrowly defeated. Smith had established himself as the most conservative Senator from the Northeast, and Bill Clinton's coattails nearly caused his defeat. On the night of the election many American media networks incorrectly projected that Swett had won.
In 1998, Bill Clinton appointed Swett to be United States Ambassador to Denmark. He served in that position until 2001, and then moved back to New Hampshire. Swett and Larry Coben wrote the national energy policy for Senator Joseph Lieberman's 2004 presidential campaign.
Swett returned to the field of architecture, assuming the position of Managing Principal for the Washington office of Leo A. Daly before becoming co-founder and CEO of Climate Prosperity Enterprise Solutions.
Swett is a member of the ReFormers Caucus of Issue One.
On August 12, 2019, Swett endorsed Joe Biden for President.


== Personal life ==
Swett is a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). In 1980, he married Katrina Lantos, a former congressional candidate and daughter of Congressman Tom Lantos; she had previously converted to the LDS Church while a student at Yale.
They have seven children.


== Publications ==
Swett, Richard N. (2005). Leadership by design : creating an architecture of trust. Colleen M. Thornton, chief researcher; translations of Danish texts by Peter Wedell-Wedellsborg and Kenneth Krabat. Atlanta, GA: Greenway Communications. ISBN 0975565400. LCCN 2005282484.


== References ==


== External links ==
Swett Associates
Richard N. Swett at APCO Worldwide
Richard Swett, Consulting Principal at the Greenway firm

Biography at the Biographical Directory of the United States Congress
Financial information (federal office) at the Federal Election Commission
Appearances on C-SPAN
Ambassador Richard M. Swett, FAIA at Sepsis Alliance

Nicat Zaur oğlu Süleymanov (born on 15 November 1998) is an Azerbaijani footballer who plays as a midfielder for Sabail in the Azerbaijan First League.


== Club career ==
On 12 May 2018, Süleymanov made his debut in the Azerbaijan Premier League for Qarabağ match against Keşla.


== Honours ==
Qarabağ

Azerbaijan Premier League (2): 2017–18, 2018–19


== References ==

The Granite Store is a historic commercial building in United States Route 1 in Sullivan, Maine.  It is an unusual example of Greek Revival architecture, executed in rough-cut granite, probably built between 1835 and 1850.  The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1974.  It is now apparently in residential use.


== Description and history ==
The Granite Store is set on the south side of US Route 1, between its junction with Maine State Route 200 and the crossing of Mill Brook.  It is a 2-1/2 story structure with a front-facing gable roof.  It is set on a granite foundation, and its two stories are fashioned out of courses of locally quarried rough cut granite; the gable ends are framed in wood and finished in weatherboard, with a cornice molding outlining it.  The main facade faces north, and has a central entry set in a frame of long granite blocks.  This is flanked by a pair of sash windows, with slightly smaller sash windows above.  An even smaller sash window is located in the gable end.  Both side walls lack any sort of fenestration.  The rear of the building has two windows on the first floor and one on the second, with an additional space on the second floor where there was once a doorway probably used as a loading entry.
It is believed that the initial use of the building, probably built in the 1840s, was as a salt and supply store for fisherman working on the Grand Banks.  By the late 1850s the property was in use as a shipyard, where fishing schooners were built; the store would have then served as a chandlery, providing mariners with all manner of supplies.  The building has had long periods of vacancy since the 1870s, seeing occasional use as a gift shop and art gallery.  It now appears to have been adapted for residential use.


== See also ==
National Register of Historic Places listings in Hancock County, Maine


== References ==

The northern tufted flycatcher or simply tufted flycatcher (Mitrephanes phaeocercus) is a small passerine bird in the tyrant flycatcher family. It is found from Mexico to Ecuador.


== Taxonomy and systematics ==
The northern tufted flycatcher was originally described as Mitrephorus phaeocercus. It was later determined that genus Mitrephorus already "belonged" to other taxa so by the principle of priority genus Mitrephanes was erected for it.
The northern tufted flycatcher's further taxonomy is unsettled. The International Ornithological Committee (IOC) and the Clements taxonomy recognize these four subspecies:

M. p. tenuirostris Brewster, 1888
M. p. phaeocercus (Sclater, PL, 1859)
M. p. aurantiiventris (Lawrence, 1865)
M. p. berlepschi Hartert, EJO, 1902
BirdLife International's Handbook of the Birds of the World adds a fifth, M. p. eminulus, that the IOC and Clements include within M. p. berlepschi. Three other subspecies have been proposed but all three of those taxonomic systems include them within the IOC/Clements four subspecies.
What is now the olive tufted flycatcher (M. olivaceus) of Peru and Bolivia was previously treated as a subspecies of the northern tufted flycatcher. The northern tufted and olive tufted flycatchers are the only species in genus Mitrephanes.
This article follows the four-subspecies model.


== Description ==
The northern tufted flycatcher is 12 to 13.5 cm (4.7 to 5.3 in) long and weighs about 8.5 g (0.30 oz). The sexes have the same plumage and all subspecies have an erect pointed crest. Adults of the nominate subspecies M. p. phaeocercus have a brown-tinged olive crown, a pale spot above the lores, and a thin buff-white eye-ring on an otherwise cinnamon face. Their upperparts are brownish with an olive tinge. Their wings are dusky with buff ends on the coverts that show as two wing bars. They have whitish or pale yellow edges on their tertials. Their tail is dusky. Their throat and breast are bright ochre to cinnamon and their belly ochre-yellow. They have a dark iris, a black maxilla, an orange-yellow mandible, and blackish legs and feet. Juveniles have a dark brown crown with cinnamon-buff edges on its feathers and those of their upperparts.
Subspecies M. p. tenuirostris is paler and duller than the nominate. M. p. berlepschi has a darker olive crown than the nominate, with yellowish lores, an olive back and breast, olive wing bars, and a bright yellow belly. M. p. aurantiiventris is intermediate between the nominate and berlepschi, with medium olive upperparts and underparts tending more ochre than cinnamon.


== Distribution and habitat ==
The subspecies of the northern tufted flycatcher are found thus:

M. p. tenuirostris: western Mexico from southeastern Sonora and southwestern Chihuahua south to western Jalisco
M. p. phaeocercus: mountains of eastern and central Mexico from the latitude of Zacatecas south through Guatemala, northern El Salvador, and Honduras into far northeastern Nicaragua
M. p. aurantiiventris: from Costa Rica's central Alajuela Province east through Panama into the Serranía del Darién short of the Colombian border
M. p. berlepschi: from extreme eastern Panama south through western Colombia slightly into northwestern Ecuador's Esmeraldas and Carchi provinces
The northern tufted flycatcher has also been observed as a vagrant in Texas and Arizona.
The northern tufted flycatcher inhabits a variety of wooded montane landscapes in the upper tropical to lower temperate zones. These including pine, pine-oak, evergreen, and secondary forests and also more open areas and gallery forest. It tends to favor the forest edges and gaps and clearings within it. In elevation if ranges between 1,200 and 3,000 m (3,900 and 9,800 ft) in northern Central America, between 500 and 3,000 m (1,600 and 9,800 ft) in Costa Rica, from near sea level to 1,200 m (3,900 ft) in Colombia, and between 100 and 600 m (300 and 2,000 ft) in Ecuador.


== Behavior ==


=== Movement ===
The northern tufted flycatcher is mostly a year-round resident. It makes some elevational migration in Mexico.


=== Feeding ===
The northern tufted flycatcher feeds on insects. It typically forages singly or in pairs at any level of the forest but primarily at its mid-level. It sits upright on a perch and captures prey in mid-air with sallies from it ("hawking"). It often returns to the same perch, and usually "shivers" its wings and tail when landing. It does not join mixed-species feeding flocks.


=== Breeding ===
The northern tufted flycatcher breeds between April and June in Costa Rica and its season includes February in Colombia. Its breeding season elsewhere has not been defined. Its nest is an open cup made from moss, liverworts and lichens lined with softer material. Nests have been found between about 4 and 27 m (15 and 90 ft) above the ground, sometimes in the saddle of dangling vines and sometimes hidden in epiphytes on a tree branch. The clutch is two eggs. The incubation period, time to fledging, and details of parental care are not known.


=== Vocalization ===
The northern tufted flycatcher's dawn song is "a rapid series of high notes bip-bip-bip-dididi-up-bip-bip-bibibiseer". It also sings "single or repeated tchwee or turee notes" and in the breeding season "seeeu or seer". Its call is pik or beek".


== Status ==
The IUCN has assessed the northern tufted flycatcher as being of Least Concern. It has an extremely large range; its estimated population of at least 500,000 mature individuals is believed to be decreasing. No immediate threats have been identified. It is considered "fairly common" in northern Central America, "common" in Costa Rica, and "locally common" in Colombia. It occurs in two national parks in Costa Rica.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Skutch, Alexander F. (1960). "Tufted flycatcher" (PDF). Life Histories of Central American Birds II. Pacific Coast Avifauna, Number 34. Berkeley, California: Cooper Ornithological Society. pp. 328–331.

This page covers the major events of 2016 in rugby union.


== International tournaments ==
6 February – 6 March: 2016 Americas Rugby Championship, won by  Argentina XV
11–19 November: 2016 Cup of Nations, won by  Russia
9–18 June: 2016 World Rugby Nations Cup, won by  Romania


=== Northern hemisphere national teams ===
February 6 – March 19: 2016 Six Nations Championship, won by  England
Autumn 2014 – Spring 2016: 2014–16 European Nations Cup First Division, won by  Georgia
5 March – 1 October: 2016 Rugby Americas North Championship, won by  Mexico
30 April – 4 June: 2016 Asia Rugby Championship in Hong Kong, Japan and South Korea; won by  Japan


=== Southern hemisphere national teams ===
March 8–21: 2016 World Rugby Pacific Challenge, won by  Fiji Warriors
20 August – 8 October: 2016 Rugby Championship, won by  New Zealand
July 18 – August 3: 2016 World Rugby Pacific Nations Cup, won by  Fiji
May 7 – June 4: 2016 Sudamérica Rugby Cup, won by  Argentina


== Club tournaments ==


=== Northern hemisphere clubs ===
13 November 2015 – 14 May 2016: 2015–16 European Rugby Champions Cup, won by  Saracens
12 November 2015 – 13 May 2016: 2015–16 European Rugby Challenge Cup, won by  Montpellier Hérault Rugby
5 September 2015 – 28 May 2016: 2015–16 Pro12, won by  Connacht
22 August 2015 – 24 June 2016: 2015–16 Top 14 season, won by  Racing 92
16 October 2015 – 28 May 2016: 2015–16 Aviva Premiership, won by  Saracens


=== Southern hemisphere clubs ===
February 26 – August 6: 2016 Super Rugby season, won by  Hurricanes


== Youth tournaments ==
April 19 – May 1: 2016 World Rugby Under 20 Trophy in Zimbabwe, won by  Samoa
3–7 May: 2016 Oceania Rugby Under 20 Championship in Australia and New Zealand, won by  New Zealand
June 7–25: 2016 World Rugby Under 20 Championship in England, won by  England
11–17 December: 2016 U-19 Asia Rugby Championship in Malaysia, won by  Hong Kong


== Women's rugby ==
5 February – 20 March: 2016 Women's Six Nations Championship, won by  France
6–15 October: 2016 Women's European Championship in Spain, won by  Spain
6–8 August: Rugby sevens at the 2016 Summer Olympics – Women's tournament, won by  Australia


== Rugby sevens ==
4 Dec 2015 – 22 May 2016: 2015–16 World Rugby Sevens Series, won by  Fiji
9–11 August: Rugby sevens at the 2016 Summer Olympics – Men's tournament, won by  Fiji


== See also ==
2016 in sports


== References ==

Life imprisonment in Sweden is a term of imprisonment for an indeterminate length. It is the most severe punishment available in Sweden. Swedish law states that the longest punishment, other than life imprisonment, is a fixed prison term of 18 years. However, a prisoner convicted to life imprisonment may appeal a partially served life sentence to the District Court of Örebro for "fixing" the sentence. Upon success, the sentence is commuted to a fixed sentence of any number of years considered proportionate to the severity of the crime, after which standard Swedish parole regulations apply. Due to new legislation taking effect in January 2022, any offender aged 18 at the commission of the murder can be sentenced to life imprisonment. Previously, an age limit of 21 applied. Prior to 2006, all life sentences were issued without the possibility of parole, although executive clemency was widely issued to commute life sentences to fixed-time sentences in a similar way now exercised by the judiciary. This procedure is the only way a sentence longer than 18 years may be issued in Sweden.


== Records and statistics ==
In October 2015, 142 inmates served life sentences in Sweden, all excluding one were convicted of murder (including accessory, attempt and incitement to murder). One was convicted of genocide (Stanislas Mbanenande, convicted for the role he played in the Rwandan genocide). Seven of those who served life sentences were females.
In October 2022, 189 inmates served life sentences in Sweden, 10 of which were females. The vast majority were convicted for murder, some for accessory or conspiracy to commit murder, and a few for genocide (e.g. Claver Berinkindi, found guilty for participation in the Rwandan genocide in 1994) or attempted murder (e.g. the would-be killer of Obidkhon Sobitkhony). 


=== Longest-serving inmates ===
In 2006, convicted murderer Leif Peters died in psychiatric care after 39 years of confinement. As of 2011, Leif Axmyr, who, in 1982, killed his former girlfriend Ulla-Britt Jacobsson and her new fiancée Tommy Larsson, has spent nearly three decades in prison. He held the longest record of ongoing confinement, during which Axmyr filed eleven appeals for a commutation of the sentence. In 2010 his imprisonment was overturned in favor of a determinate sentence of 46 years, but this appeal was itself overturned and a further appeal to the Supreme Court of Sweden was denied. In 2016, Axmyr was finally released after having his sentence converted to 51 years imprisonment, meaning he could leave on probation after 34 years inside (two thirds of the sentence). In 2022, Axmyr was surpassed by spree killer Tommy Alexandersson, sentenced for a case of both triple and double murder in 1988. There have been psychiatric inmates effectively imprisoned for longer periods than Axmyr and Alexandersson.


== Commutation ==
Increased criticism from prison authorities, prisoners and victims led to a revision of practices and in 2006, a new law was passed which gave prisoners the right to apply to have a sentence commuted to a determined sentence at the Örebro District Court. A prisoner must serve at least 10 years in prison before applying and the set sentence cannot be under 18 years (with 1/3 of the sentence suspended), the longest determined sentence allowed under Swedish law. 
When granting a determinate sentence, the court takes into account the crime, the prisoner's behaviour in prison, public safety and the chance of rehabilitation. However, some prisoners may never be released, considered too dangerous to the public. Of those who have been given set sentences under the new law, the sentences have ranged between 25 and 31 years. In 2007, the Swedish Supreme Court ruled that ten years in prison (which at that time was the harshest available prison sentence other than life imprisonment) should overrule life imprisonment as the "general option" for premeditated murder. This was later revised by a number of statutes, specifying a number of conditions for which a life sentence should be issued. 
In 2009, judicial discretion and options to sentence people to more than 10 years but less than life became available. Under the new law, anyone convicted of murder will be sentenced to 10 to 18 years' imprisonment or a life sentence in special circumstances. On average, when there are no special circumstances, a sentence of 14 years may be imposed. In mitigating circumstances, the possible sentence ranges from 10-13 years. In aggravating circumstances, the possible sentence is 15-18 years or life. The "average" sentence of murder, forming a starting point, is considered at 16 years' imprisonment by precedent, with a higher or lower sentence requiring aggravating or mitigating circumstances.  
In 2020, a new law was passed that increased the likelihood of a person convicted of murder receiving a life sentence. Previously, only 30 % of murder cases with aggravating circumstances resulted in life imprisonment; this new legislation resulted in an increase of 50 % of life sentences imposed the previous year.
In January 2022, the minimum age for someone to be sentenced to lifetime was reduced from 21 to 18, although particularly aggravating factors must be considered; i.e. cases which would result in a life sentence for a person over 21 may still result in a fixed sentence for a younger person. The first 18-19-year-old to be given life imprisonment was Fabian Vidar Cederholm (born 23 December 2003), who at age 18 committed a double axe murder at his school in March 2022. The sentence was the harshest imposed on a teenager for a long time.


== Aggravated murder eligible for life imprisonment ==
According to current law, a life sentence may be imposed for murder if "the act was preceded by careful planning, was characterised by particular cunning, aimed to promote or conceal other offences, involved severe suffering for the victim or was otherwise particularly ruthless." (Chapter 3, Section 1 of the Swedish Criminal Code).


== Examples ==
Jackie Arklöv – Murderer and also convicted of crimes against humanity
John Ausonius – Murderer and attempted serial killer
Stig Bergling – Convicted of espionage
Fabian Cederholm - School stabber and murderer
Anders Eklund – Murderer and rapist
Mattias Flink – Mass murderer
Carina Frödin - Arson murderer
Maria Kisch - Murderer
Martina Kveldstad - Murderer
Peter Mangs – Murderer and attempted serial killer
Mijailo Mijailović – Convicted of the murder of Anna Lindh
Johanna Möller - Found guilty of murdering her father, and the attempted murder of her mother.
Hamid Nouri - Foreign official convicted of mass murder
Jennie Olsson - Murderer
Stig Wennerström – Convicted of treason
Tommy Zethraeus – Mass murderer


== References ==


== Further reading ==
THE LEGALITY OF LIFE IMPRISONMENT: COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF INTERNATIONAL, EUROPEAN, AND DUTCH LAW

Essex Golf & Country Club is a private, 18-hole championship golf course located in LaSalle, Ontario, south of Windsor.


== History ==
The club was established in 1902 under the name of Oak Ridge Golf Club, and from that date until 1910 played over a 3400 yard nine-hole course on the Farwell Farm in Sandwich.  Mr. George Mair, the club's founder, was president.
In the fall of 1910 the club purchased the Colonel Alan Prince Farm in the town of Sandwich on Center Road, now Prince Road at its intersection with College Avenue, not far from the Ambassador Bridge linking Windsor and Detroit.  The property consisted of 40 acres (160,000 m2) of land and a nine-hole golf course was constructed in 1911.  During construction, members were invited to play at the Walkerville Country Club, which started out as a tennis club, situated at the present site of Walkerville Collegiate in the Town of Walkerville (now part of Windsor) founded in 1890 by the distiller Hiram Walker.  Mr. Hiram W Walker, a nephew of Hiram Walker and Mayor of Walkerville, became a member of Essex in 1914.


=== Merger ===
The Oak Ridge Golf Club merged with the Walkerville Club and the name was changed to the "Essex County Golf & Country Club."  The nine-hole course was open for play in the spring of 1912 and was in use until the fall of 1914 when, additional land having been procured, an 18-hole course was built. During 1917 more land was purchased and the course was remodeled under the direction of Detroit golf course professional Ernest Way to make a longer 18-hole 5,705-yard (5,217 m) course. The growth of the community resulted in the club losing its country club character, and the decision was made to relocate to a more rural setting. In the mid-1920s 126 acres (0.51 km2) of wooded farmland was purchased in the Town of LaSalle. (Additional land was acquired along the north and south borders in the 1960s and 1970s to bring the total average to approximately 138 acres). The services of the golf course architect, Donald J. Ross was retained and construction of a 6,525-yard (5,966 m) course was commenced in 1928. Construction was supervised by John Gray who, like Ross, was a native born Scotsman. Gray, who had been a greenskeeper at the Prince Road course, remained so at the new course until his death in 1958 at age 73. Gray was a charter member of the United States National Greenskeepers Association when the organization was formed in Toledo, Ohio in 1926.
The new clubhouse was modeled on an English country house and was designed by the Windsor architectural firm of Sheppard, Nichols & Masson.  It opened on July 1, 1929.  When the Detroit District Golf Association was formed in 1919 by 14 clubs, several of the founding clubs had Ross Courses, among which was Essex.  It continued the connection through the years and still belongs to the Golf Association of Michigan as well as the Golf Association of Ontario and the Royal Canadian Golf Association.


=== Fame ===
In the early 1930s, the club encountered financial difficulties and sought relief from the courts on interest payments.  During the next several years, mutually satisfactory arrangements were made with the bondholders and in 1948 the club obtained a new charter and started to operate as the Essex Golf & Country Club on June 1, 1949.
Golfers who played regularly at Essex included Walter Hagen, Al Watrous and Horton Smith, who later worked as club professionals in Detroit. Babe Didrikson Zaharias was reportedly a frequent visitor during the 1930s.[citation needed]
In 1915 Essex admitted Miss Kate Duncan who became the first Lady Member. By 1921, Essex had 10 Lady Members. Miss Duncan remained a member until her death in 1967. Kate Duncan Day was established in her memory.


=== Tournaments and Championships ===
As a tournament site, Essex has provided a strong challenge to some of the top players in the world. It hosted the Ontario Open Championship in 1922, 1949 and 1951, the 1934 Ontario Amateur, the Canadian Women's Amateur in 1964 and, at the top of the list, the Canadian Open in 1976. The latter event was won by Jerry Pate, who established the official competitive course record of 63, shooting 69-67-68-63 = 267 (13 under par), over a field that included Arnold Palmer, Jack Nicklaus, Gary Player, Tom Watson, Raymond Floyd, Johnny Miller, Jim Colbert, Tom Weiskopf, Tom Kite, Ben Crenshaw, Gene Littler, Bruce Lietzke and virtually all of the best tournament players of the day. (Pate's record stood until 2002)
The golf world's attention was once again focused on Essex when the club hosted the 1998 du Maurier Classic, the fourth "Major" on the LPGA Tour. The $1.2 million (US) tournament was held from July 27 to August 2, a great financial success, recorded as one of the best run du Maurier events ever which broke an all-time attendance record in the 25-year history of the event. The $180,000 (US) first place prize was won by Brandie Burton with an 18 under par 270, one stroke better than Annika Sörenstam.
The highlight of the centennial year was the hosting of the PGA Senior Tour's 1.6 million AT&T Canada Senior Open Championship, placing the club as one of the only three Canadian golf clubs to have hosted a PGA Tour, LPGA Tour and a Senior PGA Tour event. Tom Jenkins won the tournament over Bruce Lietzke, Morris Hatalsky and Walter Morgan. A new course record was set when Walter Morgan recorded an 11 under par 60 in the second round of the tournament, improving on the 63 shot by Jerry Pate in the 1976 Canadian Open.


=== Renovation ===
In 1998, Essex also undertook a massive renovation project to improve the club's facilities, practice range, parking, course maintenance facility and a total refurbishment of the clubhouse facilities. In 2002, the club's 100th year, Essex embarked on a major kitchen improvement plan, enlarging and equipping the existing facility with the most up-to-date conveniences. In addition, the entire roof of the structure was replaced. During 2003, work was completed on a new million-dollar irrigation system. Essex was also privileged to host the Seniors Triangular Matches composed of teams from Canada and the United States and an international team from the British Isles. The fall of 2005 saw the commencement of the Renaissance Plan, a project which included restoring the fairways and greens back to their original Donald Ross design as well as a rebuilding and restoration of the bunkers. The project was completed in the fall of 2006.


== References ==
Essex Golf & Country Club

Sidi M'hamed Bou Qobrine Cemetery (Arabic: مقبرة سيدي أمحمد بوقبرين) is a cemetery in the commune of Belouizdad in Algeria. The name relates to Sidi M'hamed Bou Qobrine.


== History ==
In the place of this Muslim cemetery, in 1830 during the French conquest of Algeria, there was only the mausoleum of Sidi M'hamed Bou Qobrine and a few graves among the wild olive trees.
It was then that the burials of the Muslim dead in Algiers were more and more numerous in the El Kettar cemetery from 1834, and in the Sidi M'hamed Cemetery.
The latter began to be a Muslim necropolis only around 1850, when the cemeteries occupying the site of the streets of Tripoli, Larbi Ben Mhidi, Ali Boumendjel and Boulevard Debbih Cherif were destroyed.
Originally surrounded by cacti and aloe vera, a perimeter wall was built to surrounded it at the start of the 20th century.
The entrance gate, the minaret, the portico and the fountain were also built at this time.


== Notable interments ==

Sidi M'hamed Bou Qobrine
Abderrahmane Djilali
Ahmed Senhadji
Aïssat Idir
Ali Boumendjel
Amina Belouizdad
Hassiba Ben Bouali
Larbi Zekkal
Madani Abbassi
Malek Bennabi
Mohamed Bachir El Ibrahimi
Mohamed Belouizdad
Mohamed Lefkir
Zoubir Bouadjadj


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Cemeteries of Algiers


== References ==

Susan Wefald (born June 30, 1947) is a former North Dakota Republican Party politician. She served as a North Dakota Public Service Commissioner from 1993 until her retirement in 2009.


== Biography ==
Susan Wefald was born in  Royal Oak, Michigan and received her bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan and her Master of Public Administration degree from the University of North Dakota. She is a licensed social worker, and a former credit counselor. She was a member of the Bismarck Public Schools board from 1989 to 1993, and she has been on the Veterans Memorial Library Board of Trustees since 2001. She was appointed to the Public Service Commission in 1993 by Governor Ed Schafer to complete the term by Dale V. Sandstrom, who resigned. She is the first woman to serve on the state's Public Service Commission. In 2002, Wefald was re-elected to serve a six-year term with the Commission. Wefald did not seek re-election in 2008. At the time of her retirement, she was serving as the President of the Commission. She is the wife of Robert O. Wefald, and they have three grown children; Sarah, Kathryn and Tom. She currently has two grandchildren named Andrew and Grace.


== References ==

Windsor—Tecumseh—Lakeshore (formerly Windsor—Tecumseh) is a federal  electoral district in Ontario, Canada, that has been represented in the House of Commons of Canada since 2004.


== Geography ==

Windsor—Tecumseh consists of the Town of Tecumseh, and the part of the City of Windsor lying east and north of a line drawn from the U.S. border southeast along Langlois Avenue, east along Tecumseh Road East, and southeast along Pillette Road to the southern city limit.


== History ==
Windsor—St. Clair was created in 1987 as "Windsor—Lake St. Clair" from parts of Essex—Windsor and Windsor—Walkerville ridings. In 1989, the riding's name was changed to "Windsor—St. Clair". It was also a provincial riding for the 1999 and 2003 Ontario provincial elections.
Windsor—Tecumseh was created in 2003 from parts of Essex and Windsor—St. Clair ridings.
This riding was left unchanged after the 2012 electoral redistribution.
Following the 2022 Canadian federal electoral redistribution, this riding has been renamed Windsor—Tecumseh—Lakeshore, first used in the April 2025 election. The riding gained the part of Lakeshore north of the 401 and west of the Puce River (Pike Creek and Elmstead areas) from Essex.


== Demographics ==
According to the 2021 Canadian census
Ethnic groups: 75.9% White, 5.4% Arab, 4.6% Black, 3.2% South Asian, 3.1% Aboriginal, 1.7% West Asian, 1.4% Filipino, 1.4% Latin American, 1.2% Chinese
Languages: 72.2% English, 4% Arabic, 2.6% French, 2.2% Serbo-Croatian, 1.8% Italian, 1.5% Chaldean Neo-Aramaic, 1.3% Serbian, 1.2% Spanish, 1% Polish
Religions: 65.1% Christian (39.6% Catholic, 4.3% Eastern Orthodox, 3.6% Anglican, 2.5% United Church, 1.4% Baptist, 1.4% Pentecostal and other Charismatic, 1% Presbyterian), 27.1 No religion, 4.6% Muslim, 1.3 Hindu 
Median income (2020): $40,400


== Members of Parliament ==


== Election results ==


=== Windsor—Tecumseh—Lakeshore ===


=== Windsor—Tecumseh ===


=== Windsor—St. Clair ===


=== Windsor—Lake St. Clair ===


== See also ==
List of Canadian electoral districts
Historical federal electoral districts of Canada


== References ==
"Windsor—Tecumseh—Lakeshore (Code 35101) Census Profile". 2011 census. Government of Canada - Statistics Canada. Retrieved March 3, 2011.
Riding history from the Library of Parliament
2011 results from Elections Canada


=== Notes ===

Alan Jones (born 11 June 1948) is an Australian cricketer. He played in nineteen first-class and seven List A matches for Queensland between 1970 and 1977.


== See also ==
List of Queensland first-class cricketers


== References ==


== External links ==
Alan Jones at Cricinfo

De Rachewiltz is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Boris de Rachewiltz (1926–1997), Italian Egyptologist
Igor de Rachewiltz (1929–2016), Italian Mongolist
Mary de Rachewiltz (1925–2026), American poet and translator

M. Rajagopalan (born 29 May 1960) is an Indian politician from the CPI(M) and was the MLA of Thrikaripur in the 14th & 15th Niyamasabha.


== Career ==
Rajagopalan started his social activity through Deshabhimani Balasangham, who was a State office bearer from Kasaragod District. He was also the Union Councillor of Calicut University Union twice, a Senate Member in 1984-85 and later became its General Secretary in 1986.
He became a Director Board Member of Agro Industries Corporation, Governing Body Member of Regional Agro Industrial Development Co-operative of Kerala (RAIDCO), a member of Divisional Railway Users Consultative Committee (DRUCC), and the President of Kayyoor Service Co-operative Bank. He is currently the Chairman of Thejaswini Co-operative Hospital, Neeleswaram.


== Political career ==
Rajagopalan was the State Joint Secretary and a Central Committee Member of Students Federation of India (SFI). He was also Kasaragod District President, Secretary and State Joint Secretary of Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI).
He became the President of Kayyur-Cheemeni Grama Panchayat from 2000 to 2005. He is a Director Board member of CPI(M) Kasaragod District Secretariat and the Secretary of Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) Kasaragod District Committee.


== Personal life ==
Rajagopalan is the son of P. Damodaran and M. Devaki. I. Lakshmikutty is his spouse. They have two children: a daughter (Aninditha. L.R) and a son (Sidharth L.R).


== References ==


== External links ==
M Rajagopalan at Facebook

Elections were held in the organized municipalities in the Nipissing District of Ontario on November 13, 2006 in conjunction with municipal elections across the province.
The following are the results of the mayoral races in each municipality and the council races in the City of North Bay.


== Bonfield ==


=== Mayor ===
The following were the results for mayor of Bonfield.  


== Calvin ==


=== Mayor ===
The following were the results for mayor of Calvin.  


== Chisholm ==


=== Mayor ===
The following were the results for mayor of Chisholm.  


== East Ferris ==


=== Mayor ===
The following were the results for mayor of East Ferris. 


== Mattawa ==


=== Mayor ===
The following were the results for mayor of Mattawa. 


== Mattawan ==
Peter Murphy is re-elected as mayor. 


== North Bay ==
The following are the results for mayor and city council of North Bay. 


=== Mayor ===
Incumbent mayor Vic Fedeli defeated former mayor Stan Lawlor in a landslide. The turnout was about 45%.


=== North Bay City Council ===
10 to be elected


== Papineau-Cameron ==


=== Mayor ===
The following were the results for mayor of Papineau-Cameron. 


== South Algonquin ==


=== Mayor ===
Percy Bresnahan was elected mayor. 


== Temagami ==


=== Mayor ===
The following were the results for mayor of Temagami. 


== West Nipissing ==


=== Mayor ===
The following were the results for mayor of West Nipissing. 


== References ==

Daniel Elsner (born 4 January 1979) is a former professional German tennis player.


== Juniors ==
Elsner was an outstanding juniors player. He won 3 consecutive juniors grand slam singles titles: the 1996 Juniors U.S. Open, the 1997 Juniors Australian Open, and 1997 Juniors French Open; as well as making the finals of the subsequent 1997 Juniors Wimbledon. He is one of only 12 male players (as of May 2017) to win at least 3 junior grand slam singles titles, and one of only 4 to do so consecutively.  He was a World No. 1 junior player in singles. 


== ATP Tour ==
Elsner turned professional in 1997 and won several futures tournaments, but had limited success on the ATP tour. His professional highlight was making the semi-finals of the Stuttgart Open in 2000, beating then ATP world No. 2 ranked Magnus Norman en route 46 76 64. He obtained a career high rank of 92 during that year. His best grand slam result was the 2nd round of the French Open in 2004. He last played on the ATP World Tour in October 2008.


== Junior Grand Slam finals ==


=== Singles: 4 (3 titles, 1 runner-up) ===


=== Doubles: 1 (1 runner-up) ===


== ATP Challenger and ITF Futures finals ==


=== Singles: 19 (14–5) ===


=== Doubles: 4 (1–3) ===


== Performance timeline ==


=== Singles ===


== See also ==
List of Grand Slam boys' singles champions


== References ==


== External links ==
Daniel Elsner at the Association of Tennis Professionals 
Daniel Elsner at World Tennis

Odostomia oldroydi is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusc in the family Pyramidellidae, the pyrams and their allies.
The epithet "oldroydi" refers to Ida Shepard Oldroyd ("Mrs. T.S. Oldroyd").


== Description ==
The elongate-ovate shell  is vitreous. Its length measures 3.5 mm. The whorls of the protoconch are small, obliquely immersed in the first of the succeeding turns, above which projects the tilted edge which is marked with five raised spiral lirations. The five whorls of the teleoconch are somewhat inflated, well rounded, moderately contracted at the sutures, strongly slopingly shouldered at the summit. They are ornamented with somewhat retractive axial ribs, of which 14 occur upon the first, 16 upon the second, 18 upon the third, and 20 upon the penultimate turn. In addition to the axial ribs, the whorls are marked by four spiral cords between the sutures which are as strong as the ribs and render them strongly nodulous at their junction. The second of these ribs below the summit marks the angle of the shoulder. The spaces enclosed by the ribs and cords are strongly impressed oblong pits, the long axis of which coincides with the spiral sculpture. The sutures are strongly constricted. The periphery of the body whorl is marked by a spiral groove, crossed by the continuations of the axial ribs, which terminate at the posterior edge of the first basal keel. The base of the shell is well rounded posteriorly, somewhat attenuated anteriorly. It is marked by six almost equal spiral keels, which are less developed about the umbilical area. The deep grooves between these keels are crossed by numerous very slender, raised axial threads. The aperture is oval. The posterior angle is obtuse. The outer lip is thin, showing the external sculpture within. The shell is rendered decidedly sinuous by the spiral cords. The columella is moderately strong, decidedly reflected anteriorly. It is provided with a fold at its insertion.


== Distribution ==
This species occurs in the Pacific Ocean off California.


== References ==

HK Olimp/Venta 2002 were a Latvian ice hockey team that played in the Optibet Hockey League, the top tier of the sport in Latvia. The team was based in Riga and played their home games at the Inbox Ice Arena.


== History ==
HK Olimp was founded in 2018, and the following year joined the Optibet Hockey League where they were immediately considered to be dark horses for the championship, due to have several Latvian national team members as part of their roster, including Georgijs Pujacs and Aleksejs Širokovs, both of whom also had KHL significant experience. The dark horse appellation turned out to be prescient as the team were in 1st place in their inaugural season, before the play-offs were cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the off-season, the team partnered with junior side Venta 2002, and as a result rebranded as HK Olimp/Venta 2002. 
As a result of 1st-place finish when the season was cancelled, Olimp qualified for the 2020–21 IIHF Continental Cup where they were scheduled to face-off in Group E against Shakhtyor Soligorsk of Belarus, Slovenian team Olimpija Ljubljana and the winner of Group B (made up of Crvena Zvezda Belgrade of Serbia, Mladost Zagreb from Croatia, Bulgarian side Irbis-Skate Sofia and Turkish outfit Buz Beykoz Istanbul). However, two months later, the IIHF cancelled the Continental Cup due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
After the end of the 2021-22 Latvian League season, Olimp/Venta 2002 folded and did not apply for the next season. The core of the team then moved on to HK Dinamo Rīga.


== Roster ==
Updated February 11, 2021.


== Season-by-season record ==
Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties, OTL = Overtime losses, Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against, PIM = Penalties in minutes


== Team records ==


=== Career ===
These are the top five scorers in HK Olimpa history.
Note: Pos = Position; GP = Games played; G = Goals; A = Assists; Pts = Points

Penalty minutes: Aleksejs Širokovs, 101


=== Season ===


==== Regular season ====
Most goals in a season: Nikolajs Jeļisejevs, 19 (2019–20)
Most assists in a season: Emīls Ezītis, 20 (2020–21)
Most points in a season: Nikolajs Jeļisejevs, 36 (2019–20)
Most penalty minutes in a season: Aleksandrs Jerofejevs, 68 (2019–20)


== Notable players ==
Miķelis Rēdlihs
Georgijs Pujacs
Aleksandrs Jerofejevs


== References ==


== External links ==
HK Olimp/Venta 2002 on Facebook

Para-athletics classification is a system to determine which athletes with disabilities may compete against each other in para-athletics events. Classification is intended to group together athletes with similar levels of physical ability to allow fair competition. Classification was created and is managed by the International Paralympic Committee (IPC), which is regularly published via its IPC Athletics Classification Handbook. People with physical, vision and intellectual disabilities are eligible to compete in this sport at the Summer Paralympics. The classification for this sport was created during the 1940s and for much of its early history was a medical condition based classification system. The classification system has subsequently become a functional mobility based one, and is moving towards an evidence-based classification system.
Each class has a code consisting of a letter and two digits, with the letter being either "T" or "F" (indicating track or field events) and the number representing the level of physical ability. The current IPC classifications for athletics can be grouped by impairment as follows:

T/F11–13 (visual impairment)
T/F20 (intellectual impairment)
T/F31–34 (wheelchair events for athletes with a movement disorder, including cerebral palsy)
T/F35–38 (ambulant events for athletes with a movement disorder, including cerebral palsy)
T/F40–41 (short stature, including dwarfism)
T/F42–44 (leg impairment, lower limb affected by limb deficiency, leg length difference, impaired muscle power or impaired range of movement)
T/F45–47 (arm impairment, upper limbs affected by limb deficiency, impaired muscle power or impaired range of movement)
T/F51–57 (wheelchair events for athletes with a lower body impairment, including paraplegia)
T/F61-64 (Lower limb/s competing with prosthesis affected by limb deficiency and leg length difference)


== Definition ==
Para-athletics classification at the Paralympic Games is the basis for determining who can compete in specific athletic sports, and within which class. It is used for the purposes of establishing fair competition. The general rules for para-athletics are based on rules intended for able-bodied competitors. The blind classifications are based on medical classification, not functional classification.

Beyond the level of vision impairment, research done at the Central Institute on Employment Abilities of the Handicapped in Moscow has found differences in functional capabilities based on differences in visual acuity.  This plays a significant role in athletics races.


== Governance ==
Classification is handled by the International Paralympic Committee, with classification spelled in the IPC Athletics Classification Handbook. While CP-ISRA has an interest in the sport because it is open to people with cerebral palsy, it is not governed by them. In 1983, the rules for this sport and approval for classification was done by the International Amateur Athletics Federation. At the 1992 Summer Games, athletics classification was governed by four different sporting bodies including the IBSA, ISOD, ISMWSF and the CP-ISRA.


== Eligibility ==
As of 2012, people with physical, vision, and intellectual disabilities are eligible to compete in this sport.


== History ==
The classification for this sport was created during the 1940s and for much of its early history was a medical condition based classification system.  An example of classification in this period was L2 SCI, which was for competitors who had normal functioning except for lower limb paralysis.  These competitors would not compete in wheelchair races against double above the knee amputees because, while their functional disabilities were similar, their medical conditions were not.  The first wheelchair races took place by 1952 at the Stoke Mandeville Hospital. By 1955, Germans had realised there was a need for classification in athletics event because it was systematically unfair to insist a double leg above the knee amputee compete against able bodied athletes in events like the shot put.
In 1964, the International Sport Organization for the Disabled (ISOD) was created. They created the first formal classification system, which had 27 classes. This was reduced to 12 classes for the 1976 Summer Paralympics and was further reduced to nine classes for the 1992 Summer Paralympics. During the late 1960s and early 1970s, the classification system, set up as a series of "handicaps", was seen as problematic because in an effort to clearly describe a disability and promote fairness, the number of classifications made the organisation of competitive events difficult. There were too few people in a classification to the point where an international event for people with disabilities said "1000 competitors = 1000 winners." There were some exceptions to this in classes like double leg paralysis as a result of brain or spinal injury and single leg amputations.
In 1983, classification for cerebral palsy competitors in this sport was done by the Cerebral Palsy International Sports and Recreation Association (CP-ISRA). There were five cerebral palsy classifications.  That year, 80 to 85% of all competitors with cerebral palsy competed in the same classification.  There was separate classification for track events and field events. Class 2 competitors would compete in the 20 metre race using arm propulsion, 60 metre race using leg propulsion, 200 metre race using leg propulsion and the 3 x 60 metre shuttle relay event, which required 3 competitors from class 2 and 3 of which one had to be a class 2 competitor.  In field events, competitors could compete in the medicine ball thrust, the kickball event, the club throw event and the shot put.
In 1983, Cerebral Palsy International Sports and Recreation Association (CP-ISRA) set eligibility rules for classification.  They defined cerebral palsy as a non-progressive brain lesion that results in impairment. People with cerebral palsy or non-progressive brain damage were eligible for classification by them.   The organisation also dealt with classification for people with similar impairments.  For their classification system, people with spina bifida were not eligible unless they had medical evidence of loco-motor dysfunction. People with cerebral palsy and epilepsy were eligible provided the condition did not interfere with their ability to compete. People who had strokes were eligible for classification following medical clearance.  Competitors with multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy and arthrogryposis were not eligible for classification by CP-ISRA, but were eligible for classification by International Sports Organisation for the Disabled for the  Games of Les Autres.
During the 1980s, there were 8 classes for cerebral palsy competitors, 3 classes for competitors with visual impairments, 9 classes for competitors with ambulatory issues and six classes for Les Autres athletes. Intellectual disability athletics classifications existed by the 1984 within the context of the Special Olympics.  In some cases, one intellectual disability class existed with events broken down by age in order to allow equal competition for runners. Some of these races were held in Canada and disability classes competed during able bodied events.
Going into the 1992 Summer Paralympics, there was a push to move more towards a functional classification system by the International Coordinating Committee and the Technical Committee of the International Paralympic Committee.  This came to a head at the November 1989 meeting of the Barcelona Olympics Organising Committee, when a discussion was started about what events and classifications should be eligible for the Games.  A study by the organising committee and the Polytechnic University of Catalonia in the lead up to the meeting.  It looked at the results for the 1984 and 1987 Stoke Mandeville Games, the 1984 New York Games, a 1985 Brussels competition, a 1985 Rome competition, a 1986 Puerto Rico competition, a 1987 Paris competition, the 1988 Seoul Games and a 1989 Nottingham competition.  The study proposed a series of classes, based on the competitive results, for use in Barcelona.  The local organising committee was insistent such a system be implemented to insure the sport at the Paralympic Games was serious and competitive, instead of recreational.  The suggestions for classification were then implemented for sports such as swimming and athletics. During the late 1980s and early 1990s there was a movement away from medical classification and into functional classification systems. Following this, the 1992 Summer Paralympics had four wheelchair racing classifications, down from 7 at the 1988 Summer Paralympics.

During the 1990s, there was a decision to try to fix athlete classification so that competitors could have more certainty in which classification they would compete in before attending an event.  This was a big change as previously, athletes would be classified right before and during an event.
In 1992, the International Paralympic Committee formally took control of governance for disability sport. The 1992 Games were the first ones where athletes of different types of disabilities competed against each other, athletes had a guaranteed right to appeal their classification. The wheelchair classifications were part of the 1994 Commonwealth Games.
At the 1996 Summer Paralympics, there were 44 athletics classifications, 20 for track and 24 for field.  The classifications covered four broad disability types. In 1997, there were four spinal injury related classifications for wheelchair track athletes.  They were T1 for tetraplegics, T2 for competitors with partial mobility in their trunk and arms, T3 for competitors who had use of their trunk halfway down and good arms, and T4 for able-bodied athletes from the waist and things, which also included double amputees. A classification system from F1 to F7 existing at the time for wheelchair competitors in field events.  A classification system also existed for blind athletes from B1 to B3.
Going into the 2000 Summer Paralympics, there were concerns raised by members of the cerebral palsy community about the need to maintain a multiple functional classification system inside this sport specifically for this class of athletes given the large range of functional ability inside the community with cerebral palsy and other motor functional disabilities. Several classes in this sport were included in the 2002 Commonwealth Games. The new classification system made T1 equivalent to <C6 neurological impairment level and 1A for medical classification, T2 equivalent to CYB neurological impairment level, and 1B and 1C for medical classification, T3 equivalent to C7-T7 neurological impairment level, and  1c, 2 and 3 for medical classification, and T4 equivalent to T8-S2 neurological impairment level and 3, 4, 5 and 6 for medical classification. In 2005, athletics had fifty different races for the 100 metre race when gender and classification events were totaled.  These include seven wheelchair classifications, six les autres classes, nine amputee classes, eight cerebral palsy classes, and three blinded classes.
Because of issues in objectively identifying functionality that plagued the post Barcelona Games, the IPC unveiled plans to develop a new classification system in 2003.  This classification system went into effect in 2007, and defined ten different disability types that were eligible to participate on the Paralympic level. It required that classification be sport specific, and served two roles.  The first was that it determined eligibility to participate in the sport and that it created specific groups of sportspeople who were eligible to participate and in which class.  The IPC left it up to International Federations to develop their own classification systems within this framework, with the specification that their classification systems use an evidence based approach developed through research. Functional classifications continued to be used in the 2010s. In 2010, the IPC announced that they would release a new IPC Athletics Classification handbook that specifically dealt with physical impairments.  This classification guide would be put into effect following the closing ceremony of the 2012 Summer Paralympics. Athletes needed to be at least 18 years old to compete in the T40/F40 and T41/F41 classes.  This was to prevent still growing children from competing in this class despite otherwise not having a disability.
The debate about inclusion of competitors into able-bodied competitions was seen by some disability sport advocates like Horst Strokhkendl as a hindrance to the development of an independent classification system not based on the rules for able-bodied sport.


== Classes ==
There are four classifications for wheelchair athletes with cerebral palsy and similar movement disorders: T31, T32, T33 and T34. There are also four classes for wheelchair athletes with other impairments, such as spinal cord injury. They include T51, T52, T53 and T54.   The T54 classification currently in use is comparable to but broader than the early L2 SCI classification. Like L2 SCI, it includes competitors with normal functioning except for lower limb paralysis; unlike SCI L2, it also includes bilateral leg amputees.  If a racer's abdominal muscles are paralysed, they may be classified as a T53. Events for wheelchair class athletes range from 100 metre races to the marathon.
In athletics, bilateral below the elbow amputations have a minimal impact on functional ability to run distances.  As a result, athletic classifications differ from swimming because of the differences in body use requirements impacting performance.


== Levels of classification ==
There are levels of classification available: Provisional, National and International. The first is for athletes who do not have access to a full classification panel; it is a temporary indication of class, used only in lower levels of competition. The second can be used in all domestic competitions. To compete internationally, an International-level classification is required.


== At the Paralympic Games ==
Wheelchair racing was one of the foundation sports at the original 1960 Summer Paralympics. Only wheelchair classified athletes were eligible to compete at the 1960 Summer Paralympics in Rome in this sport. This continued at the 1964 Summer Paralympics in Tokyo and 1968 Summer Paralympics in Tel Aviv.
As demonstration sports, amputee and visually impaired classifications were allowed to compete in athletics for the first at time at 1972 Summer Paralympics. Competitors with cerebral palsy classifications were allowed to compete at the Paralympics for the first time at the 1984 Summer Paralympics.
At the 1992 Summer Paralympics, all disability types were eligible to participate, with classification being run through all the major classifying bodies, with classification being done based on disability type. General and functional classification took place in the Paralympic Village in block 2 from 29 to 31 August.
At the 1996 Paralympic Games, on the spot classification required sporting equipment available for classifiers to use to assess field competitors' classification.  At the 1996 Summer Paralympics, classification was important because if on the spot classifications resulted in changes to a competitor's classification, it impacted the competition schedule.  Consequently, on the spot classification or re-classification, was viewed as a negative aspect for these Games and the Paralympic movement overall. At the 2000 Summer Paralympics, 215 assessments were conducted at the Games.   This resulted in 30 class changes. 3 of these were protested by a national Paralympic committee and 9 by PNS. 8 of these were upheld and 4 were denied.  There were 28 classification appeals lodged for athletics at the 2000 Summer Paralympics involving 18 athletes which resulted in 10 class changes.
For the 2016 Summer Paralympics in Rio, the International Paralympic Committee had a zero classification at the Games policy.  This policy was put into place in 2014, with the goal of avoiding last minute changes in classes that would negatively impact athlete training preparations. All competitors needed to be internationally classified with their classification status confirmed prior to the Games, with exceptions to this policy being dealt with on a case-by-case basis. In case there was a need for classification or reclassification at the Games despite best efforts otherwise, athletics classification was scheduled for September 4 and September 5 at Olympic Stadium.  For sportspeople with physical or intellectual disabilities going through  classification or reclassification in Rio, their in competition observation event is their first appearance in competition at the Games.


== Future ==
Disability sport's major classification body, the International Paralympic Committee, is working on improving classification to be more of an evidence-based system as opposed to a performance-based system so as not to punish elite athletes whose performance makes them appear in a higher class alongside competitors who train less.


== See also ==

Disability sport classification


== References ==

This list of awards for contributions to culture is an index to articles about notable awards for contributions to culture in a general sense. The awards listed here have a relatively open-ended scope, e.g. they apply to the arts irrespective of category. Alternatively, they pertain to a culture-related field that is not covered by a more specific list, such as promotion of culture, conservation of cultural heritage, museums, etc. The list is organized by region and country of the award sponsor, but some awards are open to people or organizations around the world.


== List ==


== See also ==
The Best in Heritage


== References ==

Casillo is an Italian surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Alessandro Casillo (born 1996), Italian singer
Vincenzo Casillo (1942–1983), Italian Camorrista


== See also ==
Castillo (surname)

Chelone obliqua, the red turtlehead, rose turtlehead or pink turtlehead, is a perennial flowering plant belonging to the family Plantaginaceae. This uncommon wildflower is endemic to the United States, where it is found in the Midwestern and southeastern states.
The three common names come from the bloom colors, yet they may even appear in other colors such as purple or white. When blooming, the flower is said to resemble the head of a turtle.


== Description ==
Chelone obliqua is an herbaceous perennial plant that grows to a height of 2 to 3 feet (61 to 91 cm) and can spread out 1 to 2 feet (30 to 61 cm).
The central stem is light green, smooth and hairless, and cylindrical; there are pairs of opposite leaves along the sides that tend to droop. Its leaf blades are lanceolate to broadly lanceolate, hairless, and serrated along their margins. The upper blade exhibits a dark green surface, while the lower blade surface is a paler green. A petiole arises from the base of each leaf blade.
C. obliqua blooms later than some herbaceous perennials, in mid to late summer. The flowers are tubular 2-lipped blooms, with a small yellow beard inside each lower lip. There is no floral scent and the flowers are cross pollinated by bees and attractive to butterflies.
An ovoid seed capsule evolves subsequent to the corollas of the flowers turning brown and falling off. The seeds' capsules are initially light green and uncovered (no coating), and later turn brown and split open to release the seeds. It is rhizomatous with occasional vegetative colony growth. 


=== Varieties ===
Varieties include:

Chelone obliqua var. erwiniae  — Erwin's red turtlehead, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina.
Chelone obliqua var. obliqua  — red turtlehead, the Southeast.
Chelone obliqua var. speciosa —  red turtlehead, the Midwest.


== Distribution ==
Chelone obliqua is native to various states in the eastern and central parts of the country, including: Arkansas, Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Indiana, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Virginia.
It is found as tetraploid in the Blue Ridge Mountains; or as hexaploid in areas ranging from Tennessee to Arkansas and Michigan, and on the Atlantic coastal plain from South Carolina to Maryland. It has arisen several times from diploid ancestors of the other three species of the genus Chelone (Chelone glabra, Chelone lyonii and Chelone cuthbertii).


== Conservation ==
The plant has become a rare wildflower and is threatened and endangered in some states, according to the United States Department of Agriculture.  Populations of the red turtlehead are threatened in Maryland, Missouri and North Carolina.  The red turtlehead is critically imperiled in Michigan, Iowa, Tennessee and Alabama.  It is possibly extirpated in Georgia and Mississippi.  Introduced non-native populations exist in Massachusetts. The variety obliqua is endangered in Kentucky and threatened in Maryland, while the speciosa variety is endangered in Arkansas and of special concern in Kentucky.


== Cultivation ==
Chelone obliqua is cultivated as an ornamental plant. Optimal bloom period is within the months of July and August.
Dispersal of seeds can occur in the early spring, then divide in mid-spring and produce root soft-tip cuttings in the early summer. It is best grown in moist to wet, rich, humusy soils in full sun to partly shaded regions. C. obliqua is tolerant of clay soil, and may benefit from leaf mulch in total sunlight to prevent it from drying out. It can grow in any pH condition (neutral, alkaline, or acidic). Hence, it is mainly grown in moist woods, swampy areas and along streams.
Some problems that may arise include a disposition to powdery mildew, rust, fungal leaf spots, and damage from slugs and snails.


== Etymology ==
Chelone is derived from Greek meaning 'turtle-like', in reference to its turtle head-shaped corollas.
Obliqua means 'slanting', 'having unequal sides', or 'oblique'.


== References ==

Moses Mague ǁGaroëb (14 April 1942, in Arixas near Mariental – 19 August 1997, in Windhoek) was a Namibian politician, founding member of SWAPO, and member of SWAPO's Politburo and Central Committee. During his political career, ǁGaroëb served in the Constituent Assembly of Namibia and was a Member of Parliament from the day of Namibian independence, 21 March 1990. He was appointed Minister of Labour and Human Resources in 1995, a position he held until his death.


== Career ==
ǁGaroëb was born in April 1942 at |Arixas near Mariental as the son of Samuel Geingob and Rebecca Geingos. At the age of 17, he took an active part in the demonstrations against the forced removal from Windhoek's Old Location to Katutura, and witnessed the massacre of 12 December 1959. He went into exile in 1961 as a member of SWANU, and joined SWAPO in the same year. He went to study in the United States and appeared before the United Nations in the early 1960s.
After graduating with a BA in political science from the University of Rochester in New York, he returned from the U.S. to Africa in 1966. In Tanzania, he became a broadcaster with The Namibian Hour from Radio Tanzania, and then editor of SWAPO's newsletter Namibia Today and Director of Information. At the SWAPO Consultative Congress in Tanga, 1969, he was appointed a member of the Central Committee and executive committee (later Political Bureau), positions which he held until his death, and SWAPO Administrative Secretary (until 1989). He was elected into the Constituent Assembly in 1989, continued as a member of the first National Assembly of Namibia, and was re-elected in 1994. From 1990 to 1995, he served as SWAPO Secretary-General. From 1995 until his death he was Minister of Labour and Human Resources.


== Death and legacy ==
Moses ǁGaroëb was a SWAPO loyalist. Not having a tribal power-base, his popularity within SWAPO was based on his outspokenness and his accessibility as an Administrative Secretary, while outside SWAPO, his often uncompromising and hard-hitting statements made him many enemies. ǁGaroëb was married to Carol ǁGaroës. They had four children.
ǁGaroëb last years were overshadowed by progressing ill-health (diabetes). He died on 19 August 1997 in Windhoek and was one of the first leaders of the independent Republic of Namibia who received a state funeral at the Old Location Cemetery on 27 September 1997. Founding president Sam Nujoma, Hage Geingob and Theo-Ben Gurirab all attended his tombstone unveiling ceremony. On 26 August 2015, Namibia's Heroes' Day, ǁGaroëb was reburied at Namibia's National Heroes' Acre.
Moses ǁGaroëb Constituency in Windhoek is named after him, as well as a street in Swakopmund and a primary school in Hakahana, Katutura.


== References ==

Iraota timoleon, the silverstreak blue, is a species of lycaenid or blue butterfly found in Asia.


== Description ==

Male. Upperside. Forewing black, the basal two-thirds of the lower area of the wing deep metallic blue, varying in extent in different specimens. Hindwing also black, the disc deep metallic blue which also varies in extent, abdominal marginal space pale, a glandular basal patch between veins 7 and 8; tail black, tipped with white. Cilia of both wings black, tipped with white. Underside dark chocolate brown variegated, being paler in parts. Forewing a gradually formed club-sliaped silvery streak in the cell, touching the sub-costal nervure, reaching a little beyond the middle of the cell, a round silvery spot at the end of the cell, a discal series of four spots in a straight line, in pairs, the upper two below the costa, the other two in the middle of the disc, the upper and lower portions of the wing paler than the centre portion. Hindwing with a very prominent, curiously-shaped silvery band, which extends from the base where it is narrow, suddenly broadens, has a point upwards and a lobe downwards, then narrows somewhat and turns upwards and expands into a large lobe near the middle of the costa; a small silvery spot below the band, two angulated, outwardly curved pale whitish indistinct lines, from the abdominal margin across the wing, ante and post medial, also terminal and sub-terminal indistinct whitish lines, anal lobe black, with a long somewhat spatulate tail, black tipped with white at the end of the internal vein. Antennae black, the tips pale orange-red; head and body black above, brown beneath; palpi white beneath, eyes ringed with white.
Female. Upperside varying in colour from purplish -brown to bright shining blue, with black borders, varying very much in width in different specimens. Underside like the male, but all the markings larger and more prominent, a medium-sized filamentous tail at the end of vein 2, in addition to the tail at the anal lobe.


== Subspecies ==
Iraota timoleon arsaces (Fruhstorfer, 1907) (south India - Madhya Pradesh to Kerala) male above of a much brighter, more lustrous metallic blue, female entirely suffused with blue. Beneath the white marking less distinct with blurred contours, particularly also the dually-lobed subbasal spot which is more obliterate and covered with brown. The anal angle of the hindwing shows more metallic blue scales.
Iraota timoleon timoleon (Stoll, 1790) (Andaman & Nicobar Island, Odisha, Uttarakhand to North-East India, South China)
Iraota timoleon nicevillei (Butler, 1901) (Sri Lanka)
Iraota timoleon wickii (Eliot, 1980) (Malaysia)


== Life history ==


== References ==

Luttif Afif (Arabic: لطيف عفيف; 1937 or 1945 – 6 September 1972; alias "Issa"—Jesus in Arabic) was a Palestinian militant who commanded the Munich massacre, a terrorist attack in the Munich Olympic Village on 5 September 1972.
Afif was born to an Arab Christian family in Nazareth, Mandatory Palestine in 1937. In 1958, he moved to West Germany to study engineering, learned the language, and then moved to France to work. Afif joined the Palestinian militant organization Fatah in 1966, possibly while residing in Germany. He later returned to the Middle East to fight several battles against Israel. He also likely participated in Jordan's Black September in 1970. In the early 1970s, Afif was living in Berlin and was engaged to a German woman.
In 1972, Afif commanded the Munich massacre attack team, which took nine members of Israel's Olympic team hostage after two others, who had offered resistance, were shot dead. Afif was the chief negotiator on behalf of the Palestinians, who were members of the Black September offshoot of Yassir Arafat's Palestine Liberation Organization. Afif and four of his collaborators were later killed by German snipers at Fürstenfeldbruck Air Base outside Munich. He called the operation Iqrit and Kafr Bir'im, after two Christian Palestinian villages whose inhabitants were expelled by Israel during the 1948 Palestine war.


== Early life ==
Luttif Afif was born in Nazareth, Mandatory Palestine, in 1937. Biographies of Afif claimed that his mother was Jewish, while his father was a wealthy Christian Arab businessman. However, both his family and Israel's interior ministry records dispute the claim about his mother. According to the records, his mother, Arifa, was born in 1920 to Hassan and Amina. Afif had three brothers, all of whom were in Black September; two were in Israeli jails. In 1958, he moved to West Germany to study engineering, learned the language, and then moved to France to work.
According to Simon Reeve, Afif enjoyed the time he spent in Europe, but joined Fatah in 1966, possibly while residing in Germany. He later returned to the Middle East.
Abu Iyad, the head of Black September, wrote that both Afif and his second-in-command, Tony, had fought in Amman in September 1970 and in the battle of Jerash and Ajlun in July 1971. In the early 1970s, Afif was living in Berlin and was engaged to a German woman.


== Munich massacre ==
According to several sources, including Serge Groussard and Simon Reeve, Afif claimed that his own personal reason for taking the Israelis hostage was to get his two brothers out of Israeli prisons. He was described by Manfred Schreiber, chief of the Munich police and one of the German negotiators, as "very cool and determined, clearly fanatical in his convictions"; someone who expressed his demands in a forceful manner and at times "sounded like [one of] those people who aren't completely anchored in reality." Various photos of the hostage crisis show Afif wearing a white beach hat and a linen safari suit, with his face covered in charcoal or shoe polish.
To Walther Tröger, then-mayor of the Olympic Village, Afif gave the impression of being an "intelligent and reasonable man," unlike his comrades, who in the eyes of the Olympic official were "gallow birds" (German: Galgenvögel). Tröger said he obviously did not like Afif because of what he was doing, but he could have liked him if he had met him elsewhere.
Afif spent most of his time in front of 31 Connollystraße, chatting with either the German delegation or the young police officer Anneliese Graes. According to Graes, Afif spoke fluent German with a French accent. She described him as "always polite and correct". When he was asked not to wave his hand grenade in front of her, he simply laughed and replied, "you have nothing to fear from me".
After tense negotiations, the hostage crisis ended after 21 hours, with a bungled ambush of the hostage takers at Fürstenfeldbruck airbase outside of Munich. Afif and four of his compatriots were killed by German snipers, but not before machine-gunning all nine remaining hostages and blowing up a helicopter containing four of them with a hand grenade. Afif is reported in most accounts of the event (and depicted in the films Munich and 21 Hours at Munich) as the guerrilla who threw the hand grenade into the eastern helicopter. Autopsy reports show that the hostages in this helicopter were shot as well; it stands to reason that Afif performed both actions. Another fedayeen, identified by Simon Reeve as Adnan Al-Gashey, machine-gunned the remaining hostages in the western helicopter seconds later.
The bodies of Afif and his four compatriots were turned over to Libya, and after a procession from Martyrs' Square, Tripoli, they were buried at the Sidi Munaidess Cemetery.


== In popular culture ==
In Serge Groussard's The Blood of Israel, Afif was misidentified as Mohammed Safady, one of the terrorists who actually survived the Fürstenfeldbruck gunfight. Another identity was suggested for Afif in Aaron Klein's Striking Back; he identifies the terrorist leader as "Mohammed Massalha", who turned out to be Afif's own father.
Afif was portrayed by Italian actor Franco Nero in the 1976 TV movie 21 Hours at Munich and by French actor Karim Saleh in Steven Spielberg's film Munich (2005).


== See also ==
Mossad assassinations following the Munich massacre
List of hostage crises


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Groussard, S. (New York, 1975), The Blood of Israel: The Massacre of the Israeli Athletes, the Olympics, 1972 ISBN 0-688-02910-8
Klein, A. J. (New York, 2005), Striking Back: The 1972 Munich Olympics Massacre and Israel's Deadly Response, Random House ISBN 1-920769-80-3
Mury, Gilbert. (Wiesbaden, 2002), Schwarzer September: Analysen, Aktionen und Dokumente, Harrassowitz, ISBN 3-8031-1048-3

Erling Wu-Bower is chef partner  at Maxwells Trading in Chicago.
He is a four-time James Beard Award finalist.


== Education ==
Wu-Bower attended the University of Notre Dame to study philosophy.


== Career ==
Wu-Bower began his career with  Paul Kahan at avec.  He  worked at The Publican from its inception followed by serving as opening chef de cuisine at Nico Osteria.
Wu-Bower has worked at The Outpost and Green Dolphin Street in Chicago, and Cetrella in Half Moon Bay, California. He has  staged at Quince in San Francisco.
In 2018, Wu-Bower opened Pacific Standard Time in Chicago.


== Personal life ==
His mother is cookbook author and food writer Olivia Wu,  who emigrated from China as a child.


== Awards and honors ==
Wu-Bower was nominated as a finalist for Best Chef: Great Lakes at the 2025 James Beard Awards.


== References ==

Eekman is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Kazuma Eekman, Dutch-Japanese artist
Luce Eekman (1933–2025), French architect and actress, daughter of Nicolas
Nicolas Eekman (1889–1973), Dutch painter
Tim Eekman (born 1991), Dutch footballer


== See also ==
Ekman

This list is a legal bibliography.
A book can be included on this list only if it meets these criteria:

(1) The book is already in an existing legal bibliography that is a reliable source.
(2) Although the book is not in such a bibliography, at least one reliable source says the book is suitable for inclusion in such a bibliography.
In other words, this bibliography includes books that only reliable, authoritative sources have said must, should be, or could be in a reliable legal bibliography.

A Bibliographical Guide to the Law of the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man
A First Book of English Law
A Legal Bibliography of the British Commonwealth of Nations
Archbold Criminal Pleading, Evidence and Practice
Atiyah's Accidents, Compensation and the Law
Austin, The Province of Jurisprudence Determined
Bacon's Abridgement
Bailey's Law of Wills
Beaumanoir, Coutumes de Beauvaisis
Black Book of the Admiralty
Black's Law Dictionary
Blackstone, A Discourse on the Study of the Law
Blackstone, An Analysis of the Laws of England
Blackstone's Commentaries
Blackstone's Criminal Practice
Bouvier's Law Dictionary
Bracton, De Legibus et Consuetudinibus Angliae
Bridgman's Legal Bibliography
Britton
Brooke's Abridgment
Brunner, The Sources of English Law
Butterworth's Annotated Legislation Service
Card, Cross and Jones: Criminal Law
Chronological Table of the Statutes
Coke's Institutes
Comyns' Digest
Cowley, A Bibliography of Abridgments, Digests, Dictionaries, and Indexes of English Law to the Year 1800
Current Law Statutes Annotated
Daniel, History and Origin of the Law Reports
D'Anvers' Abridgment
Davis' Criminal Law Consolidation Acts
Dworkin, Taking Rights Seriously
Encyclopaedia of Forms and Precedents
Ensor, Defects of the English Laws and Tribunals
Fitzherbert, New Natura Brevium
Fitzherbert's Abridgment
Fleta
Foss, Biographia Juridica
Foster's Crown Law
Fox, Handbook of English Law Reports
Friend, Anglo-American Legal Bibliographies
Gilmore, The Death of Contract
Glanvill
Grotius, De jure belli ac pacis
Hale, Historia Placitorum Coronae
Halsbury's Laws of England
Halsbury's Statutes
Halsbury's Statutory Instruments
Hart, The Concept of Law
Hawkins' Pleas of the Crown
Hoffman's Course of Legal Study
Hollond, English Legal Authors Before Blackstone
Holmes, The Common Law
Ilbert, Legislative Methods and Forms
Information Sources in Law
Jelf, Where to Find Your Law
Kelsen, Pure Theory of Law
Kent's Commentaries
Kenny's Outlines of Criminal Law
Law Books in Print
Lawyers' Law Books
Maine, Ancient Law
Marvin's Legal Bibliography
Moran, The Alphabet of the National Insurance Act, 1911.
Moran, The Boarding House Proprietor and His Guest
Moran, The Heralds of the Law
Odgers on Libel and Slander
Rastall, The Abbreviacion of Statutis
Rastall, Termes de la Ley
Russell on Crime
Rolle's Abridgment
Select Essays in Anglo-American Legal History
Simpson, Biographical Dictionary of the Common Law
Smith, Hogan and Ormerod's Criminal Law
Szladits' Bibliography on Foreign and Comparative Law
St Germain, Doctor and Student
Stair, Institutions of the Law of Scotland
Statutes in Force
Stone's Justices' Manual
Stroud's Judicial Dictionary
The Digest
Vattel, Les droit des gens
Viner's Abridgment
Wallace's Reporters
Wheaton, Elements of International Law
Williams, Learning the Law
Winfield, The Chief Sources of English Legal History
Where to Look for Your Law
Words and Phrases Legally Defined


== See also ==
Bibliography of English criminal law


== References ==


== External links ==
 Learning materials related to Bibliography of law at Wikiversity

In computational learning theory, probably approximately correct (PAC) learning is a framework for mathematical analysis of machine learning. It was proposed in 1984 by Leslie Valiant.
In this framework, the learner receives samples and must select a generalization function (called the hypothesis) from a certain class of possible functions. The goal is that, with high probability (the "probably" part), the selected function will have low generalization error (the "approximately correct" part). The learner must be able to learn the concept given any arbitrary approximation ratio, probability of success, or distribution of the samples.
The model was later extended to treat noise (misclassified samples). 
An important innovation of the PAC framework is the introduction of computational complexity theory concepts to machine learning. In particular, the learner is expected to find efficient functions (time and space requirements bounded to a polynomial of the example size), and the learner itself must implement an efficient procedure (requiring an example count bounded to a polynomial of the concept size, modified by the approximation and likelihood bounds).


== Definitions and terminology ==
In order to give the definition for something that is PAC-learnable, we first have to introduce some terminology.
For the following definitions, two examples will be used.  The first is the problem of character recognition given an array of 
  
    
      
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle n}
  
 bits encoding a binary-valued image.  The other example is the problem of finding an interval that will correctly classify points within the interval as positive and the points outside of the range as negative.
Let 
  
    
      
        X
      
    
    {\displaystyle X}
  
 be a set called the instance space or the encoding of all the samples.  In the character recognition problem, the instance space is 
  
    
      
        X
        =
        {
        0
        ,
        1
        
          }
          
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle X=\{0,1\}^{n}}
  
.  In the interval problem the instance space, 
  
    
      
        X
      
    
    {\displaystyle X}
  
, is the set of all bounded intervals in 
  
    
      
        
          R
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {R} }
  
, where 
  
    
      
        
          R
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {R} }
  
 denotes the set of all real numbers.
A concept is a subset 
  
    
      
        c
        ⊂
        X
      
    
    {\displaystyle c\subset X}
  
.  One concept is the set of all patterns of bits in 
  
    
      
        X
        =
        {
        0
        ,
        1
        
          }
          
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle X=\{0,1\}^{n}}
  
 that encode a picture of the letter "P".  An example concept from the second example is the set of open intervals, 
  
    
      
        {
        (
        a
        ,
        b
        )
        ∣
        0
        ≤
        a
        ≤
        π
        
          /
        
        2
        ,
        π
        ≤
        b
        ≤
        
          
            13
          
        
        }
      
    
    {\displaystyle \{(a,b)\mid 0\leq a\leq \pi /2,\pi \leq b\leq {\sqrt {13}}\}}
  
, each of which contains only the positive points.  A concept class  
  
    
      
        C
      
    
    {\displaystyle C}
  
 is a collection of concepts over 
  
    
      
        X
      
    
    {\displaystyle X}
  
.  This could be the set of all subsets of the array of bits that are skeletonized 4-connected (width of the font is 1).
Let 
  
    
      
        EX
        ⁡
        (
        c
        ,
        D
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \operatorname {EX} (c,D)}
  
 be a procedure that draws an example, 
  
    
      
        x
      
    
    {\displaystyle x}
  
, using a probability distribution 
  
    
      
        D
      
    
    {\displaystyle D}
  
 and gives the correct label 
  
    
      
        c
        (
        x
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle c(x)}
  
, that is 1 if 
  
    
      
        x
        ∈
        c
      
    
    {\displaystyle x\in c}
  
 and 0 otherwise.
Now, given 
  
    
      
        0
        <
        ϵ
        ,
        δ
        <
        1
      
    
    {\displaystyle 0<\epsilon ,\delta <1}
  
, assume there is an algorithm 
  
    
      
        A
      
    
    {\displaystyle A}
  
 and a polynomial 
  
    
      
        p
      
    
    {\displaystyle p}
  
 in 
  
    
      
        1
        
          /
        
        ϵ
        ,
        1
        
          /
        
        δ
      
    
    {\displaystyle 1/\epsilon ,1/\delta }
  
 (and other relevant parameters of the class 
  
    
      
        C
      
    
    {\displaystyle C}
  
) such that, given a sample of size 
  
    
      
        p
      
    
    {\displaystyle p}
  
 drawn according to 
  
    
      
        EX
        ⁡
        (
        c
        ,
        D
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \operatorname {EX} (c,D)}
  
, then, with probability of at least 
  
    
      
        1
        −
        δ
      
    
    {\displaystyle 1-\delta }
  
, 
  
    
      
        A
      
    
    {\displaystyle A}
  
 outputs a hypothesis 
  
    
      
        h
        ∈
        C
      
    
    {\displaystyle h\in C}
  
 that has an average error less than or equal to 
  
    
      
        ϵ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \epsilon }
  
 on 
  
    
      
        X
      
    
    {\displaystyle X}
  
 with the same distribution 
  
    
      
        D
      
    
    {\displaystyle D}
  
.  Further if the above statement for algorithm 
  
    
      
        A
      
    
    {\displaystyle A}
  
 is true for every concept 
  
    
      
        c
        ∈
        C
      
    
    {\displaystyle c\in C}
  
 and for every distribution 
  
    
      
        D
      
    
    {\displaystyle D}
  
 over 
  
    
      
        X
      
    
    {\displaystyle X}
  
, and for all 
  
    
      
        0
        <
        ϵ
        ,
        δ
        <
        1
      
    
    {\displaystyle 0<\epsilon ,\delta <1}
  
  then 
  
    
      
        C
      
    
    {\displaystyle C}
  
 is (efficiently) PAC learnable (or distribution-free PAC learnable).  We can also say that 
  
    
      
        A
      
    
    {\displaystyle A}
  
 is a PAC learning algorithm for 
  
    
      
        C
      
    
    {\displaystyle C}
  
.


== Equivalence ==
Under some regularity conditions these conditions are equivalent: 

The concept class C is PAC learnable.
The VC dimension of C is finite.
C is a uniformly Glivenko-Cantelli class.
C is compressible in the sense of Littlestone and Warmuth


== See also ==
Data mining
Error tolerance (PAC learning)
Occam learning
Sample complexity


== References ==


== Further reading ==
M. Kearns, U. Vazirani. An Introduction to Computational Learning Theory. MIT Press, 1994. A textbook.
M. Mohri, A. Rostamizadeh, and A. Talwalkar. Foundations of Machine Learning. MIT Press, 2018. Chapter 2 contains a detailed treatment of PAC-learnability. Readable through open access from the publisher.
D. Haussler. Overview of the Probably Approximately Correct (PAC) Learning Framework. An introduction to the topic.
L. Valiant. Probably Approximately Correct. Basic Books, 2013. In which Valiant argues that PAC learning describes how organisms evolve and learn.
Littlestone, N.; Warmuth, M. K. (June 10, 1986). "Relating Data Compression and Learnability" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2017-08-09.
Moran, Shay; Yehudayoff, Amir (2015). "Sample compression schemes for VC classes". arXiv:1503.06960 [cs.LG].
Rahimi, Herlock SeyedAbolfazl; Pougkakiotis, Spyridon; Kalogerias, Dionysis (2026). "Constrained Learning with Universally Learnable Concept Classes". arXiv:2608.08414 [cs.LG].


== External links ==
Interactive explanation of PAC learning

Chios was a Medea-class destroyer laid down for the Greek Navy by Fairfield Shipbuilding and Engineering Company, Govan in 1914. She was launched as 16 December 1914 and completed for service in the Royal Navy as HMS Melampus on 29 June 1915. On 16 April 1917 she accidentally rammed and sank the C-class submarine C16. She was sold for breaking up on 22 September 1921.


== Design and construction ==
The Greek Navy placed orders for two light cruisers and four destroyers from a syndicate of British shipbuilders and armament companies in late 1913–early 1914. The destroyers were to be built by John Brown & Company and Fairfield Shipbuilding and Engineering Company. The destroyers were of similar design to the contemporary Admiralty M-class destroyers, with the major difference being the arrangement of the ships' boiler rooms.
The ships were 273 feet 4 inches (83.31 m) long overall and 235 feet 0 inches (71.63 m) between perpendiculars, with a beam of 26 feet 8 inches (8.13 m) and a draught of 11 feet 2 inches (3.40 m). Displacement was 1,040 long tons (1,060 t) normal and 1,178 long tons (1,197 t) deep load. Three Yarrow three-drum boilers fed Brown-Curtis steam turbines rated at 25,000 shaft horsepower (19,000 kW) which drove three propeller shafts, giving a speed of 32 knots (59 km/h; 37 mph). The ship's crew consisted of 79 officers and men. Armament consisted of three QF 4-inch (102 mm) Mk IV guns mounted on the ships centreline, and four 21 inch (533 mm) torpedo tubes in two twin mounts.
The outbreak of the First World War resulted in the four under-construction destroyers being purchased by Britain for the Royal Navy in August 1914. The first of the two Fairfield-built ships, Melampus (which had been laid down as Chios) was launched at Fairfield's Govan, Glasgow shipyard on 16 December 1914 and was completed on 29 June 1915.


== Service ==
Melampus was not listed as part of any unit for the rest of 1915 after commissioning. In January 1916, Melampus was listed as part of the 10th Destroyer Flotilla of the Harwich Force, but by March that year was attached to the 8th Submarine Flotilla, also part of the Harwich Force. On 24 April 1916, the Germans mounted a major operation in the North Sea, where the battlecruisers of the I Scouting Group would bombard the coastal towns of Lowestoft and Yarmouth, in order to provoke a response by the Harwich force or the British battlecruisers based at Rosyth, which would be dealt with by the German battlecruisers and the supporting battleships of the High Seas Fleet. On the afternoon of 24 April, the battlecruiser Seydlitz struck a mine, and on detecting and deciphering German radio signals referring to the mining, the British Admiralty ordered six submarines accompanied by Melampus to intercept the German forces. Later that night, the destroyers and cruisers of the Harwich Force were ordered out, to find the German force, and to induce the Germans to chase the British force into the path of the waiting British submarines. After the Germans bombarded Lowestoft and Yarmouth, Melampus received orders to her submarines to deploy in a patrol line to have the best change of intercepting the German ships on their return journey. Melampus sighted German ships when relaying the new orders to her submarines, and after completing passing on the orders, withdrew at high speed from the German ships. None of the British submarines managed to get close enough to the German ships to engage the Germans. One of the British submarines, E22, was torpedoed and sunk by the German submarine UB-18.
In September 1916, the 8th Submarine Flotilla was split in two, with most of the Flotilla, including Melampus, joining the 9th Submarine Flotilla, still part of the Harwich Force. On 16 April 1917, Melampus was exercising with the submarines C16 and C25 off Harwich, when C16 crossed in front of Melampus at periscope depth. Melampus sighted C16's periscope, and attempted to take evasive action, but it was too late and the destroyer and submarine collided, sinking C16. Attempts by C16's crew to escape were unsuccessful, with all drowning. Melampus was cleared of all blame in the resulting enquiry. Melampus was credited with the sinking of the submarine UC-16 on 22 October 1917, with Prize Money awarded to the destroyer's crew, but UC-16 had probably been sunk in a British minefield
off Zeebrugge earlier in the month.
Melampus remained part of the 9th Submarine Flotilla at Harwich at the end of the war. Melampus was still part of the 9th Flotilla in February 1919, but by March had left the Flotilla, and moved to Devonport. She was sold for scrap on 22 September 1921 and broken up in Germany.


== Pennant numbers ==


== Notes ==


== Citations ==


== Bibliography ==
Colledge, J. J.; Warlow, Ben (2006) [1969]. Ships of the Royal Navy: The Complete Record of All Fighting Ships of the Royal Navy from the 15th Century to the Present (3rd Rev ed.). London: Chatham Publishing. ISBN 978-1-86176-281-8. OCLC 67375475.
Dittmar, F.J.; Colledge, J.J. (1972). British Warships 1914–1919. Shepperton, UK: Ian Allan. ISBN 0-7110-0380-7.
Friedman, Norman (2009). British Destroyers: From Earliest Days to the First World War. Barnsley, UK: Seaforth Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84832-049-9.
Gardiner, Robert; Gray, Randal, eds. (1985). Conway's All the World's Fighting Ships 1906–1921. London: Conway Maritime Press. ISBN 0-85177-245-5.
Grant, Robert M. (1964). U-Boats Destroyed: The Effect of Anti-Submarine Warfare 1914–1918. London: Putnam.
Kemp, Paul (1999). The Admiralty Regrets: British Warship Losses of the 20th Century. Stroud, UK: Sutton Publishing. ISBN 0-7509-1567-6.
Kemp, Paul (1997). U-Boats Destroyed: German Submarine Losses in the World Wars. London: Arms & Armour Press. ISBN 1-85409-321-5.
March, Edgar J. (1966). British Destroyers: A History of Development, 1892–1953; Drawn by Admiralty Permission From Official Records & Returns, Ships' Covers & Building Plans. London: Seeley Service. OCLC 164893555.
Massie, Rober K. (2007). Castles of Steel: Britain, Germany and the Winning of the War at Sea. London: Vintage Books. ISBN 978-0-099-52378-9.
Monograph No. 32: Lowestoft Raid: 24th – 25th April, 1916 (PDF). Naval Staff Monographs (Historical). Vol. XVI. The Naval Staff, Training and Staff Duties Division. 1927.
Monograph No. 34: Home Waters—Part VIII: December 1916 to April 1917 (PDF). Naval Staff Monographs (Historical). Vol. XVIII. The Naval Staff, Training and Staff Duties Division. 1933.

Barry Dean Loudermilk ( LOW-dər-MILK; born December 22, 1963) is an American politician from the state of Georgia who has been the United States House representative from Georgia's 11th congressional district since 2015. Prior to this, Loudermilk served in the Georgia House of Representatives (2005–2010) and the Georgia Senate (2011–2013). Loudermilk stepped down from the Georgia Senate to run for Phil Gingrey's congressional seat in the 11th district.
Loudermilk won the Republican nomination for the House seat in a 2014 runoff against Bob Barr. In that race, The Almanac of American Politics stated Loudermilk took a "sharp anti-establishment turn." After a couple years of being in the U.S. House of Representatives, Loudermilk dropped his membership in the "anti-leadership" Freedom Caucus and became increasingly involved in the "more leadership oriented Republican Study Committee."
Georgia's 11th congressional district is located northwest of Atlanta and is Republican-favoring. The 2025 Cook Partisan Voting Index rated the district as favoring Republicans by 12 points. The Almanac has stated that a Democrat with a strong base in populous Cobb County could result in a competitive race. From 2014 to present, Loudermilk has been re-elected to successive biennial terms. In early 2026, Loudermilk announced he would not seek re-election in later that year.


== Early career ==
Loudermilk enlisted in the United States Air Force in 1984, where he worked as a communications operations specialist. While in the Air Force, he attended the Community College of the Air Force at Air University to earn his Associate of Applied Science in telecommunications technology in 1987 before going on to earn his Bachelor of Science in occupational education and information systems technology from Wayland Baptist University in 1992. He was honorably discharged from the Air Force in 1992. After his military service he founded a company called Innovative Network Systems, Inc.


== Georgia politics ==
Loudermilk was elected chairman of the Bartow County Republican party in 2001, serving until 2004. He served in the Georgia House of Representatives for District 14 from 2005 until 2010 and was a member of the Georgia State Senate from 2011 to 2013. As a representative, in 2007 he argued for the abolition of red-light cameras because the cameras do not conduct an "investigation", as officers do, to see who was driving the vehicle. Instead, cameras cite the vehicle, and it is up to an individual to prove their innocence. As a senator, Loudermilk supported a ban on undocumented students from attending the top 5 public state universities, and he argued to expand the ban to include all state colleges. Loudermilk resigned from the state senate in August 2013 to focus on a US congressional bid. The bid was for the house seat of Phil Gingrey, who ran for a U.S. Senate seat.


== U.S. House of Representatives ==
In the 2014 Republican primary for Georgia's 11th district, Loudermilk took a "sharp anti establishment turn" and argued that Bob Barr's experience in Washington was a drawback. Loudermilk was described as being the favorite of local tea party groups and having the support of Washington-based figures with a history of endorsing anti-establishment conservative politicians. Barr's surrogates argued that Loudermilk consistently embellished his military record.
Greg Bluestein, writing in The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, said that in the Air Force, Loudermilk rose "to the rank of staff sergeant, the candidate has told us. While in campaign speeches he speaks of his experience as an 'aviator,' Loudermilk says his flying experience has been as a civilian. He obtained a pilot’s license in 2008. And that picture of Loudermilk in an Air Force jumpsuit in a small plane? He was a spotter for search-and-rescue missions." In response to press requests and Barr's surrogates, Loudermilk released a military resume and his discharge paperwork.
In the primary, Loudermilk topped Barr and won easily against him in the runoff. Loudermilk ran unopposed in the November election. Once in office that November, he cast a "principled vote" (one of only three) against John Boehner as Speaker of the House, which he thought likely cost him a desired committee assignment. The Almanac of American Politics wrote that "after this initial dustup, Loudermilk moved closer to Republican leaders, despite criticism from right-wing talk radio hosts. In 2017, he dropped his membership in the anti leadership Freedom Caucus, citing a lack of time, while increasing his activity with the more leadership oriented Republican Study Committee."
As of December 2024, Loudermilk was serving as chairman of the House Administration Subcommittee on Oversight. In this position, he spearheaded a report targeting Liz Cheney over her role in the January 6th Committee. In January 2025, Loudermilk became the chair of a House Judiciary Committee subcommittee formed by Speaker Johnson that was intended to cast doubt on the work of the January 6th Committee.


=== District ===

The lines of the 11th Congressional district of Georgia were last updated as of January 3, 2025, after a court-ordered redrawing. The district is located to the northwest of Atlanta. As of 2025, the 11th district includes Marietta, the largest city and county seat of populous Cobb County; cities along the I-575 corridor including Woodstock, Holly Springs, and Canton (the county seat of Cherokee County); parts of Acworth and Kennesaw; and other cities along I-75 north of Atlanta including Emerson, Cartersville (the county seat of Bartow County), Adairsville, and Calhoun (the county seat of Gordon County). The district is Republican-favoring. Given district lines before the 2025 redraw, The Almanac of American Politics said that "recent results suggest that a Democrat with a strong base in Cobb County could give Loudermilk a serious run," given its large population base. The 2025 Cook Partisan Voting Index rates the district as favoring Republicans by 12 points.


=== Tenure ===
In the 114th congress, Loudermilk had an 84% score from conservative political advocacy group Heritage Action for his voting record, with the average House Republican scoring 63%.
In February 2017, Loudermilk co-sponsored H.R. 861, which would eliminate the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency by 2018.
As mentioned above, Loudermilk is a former member of the Freedom Caucus and has been endorsed by the evangelical author and political activist for Christian nationalist causes, David Barton.


=== Committee assignments ===
For the 118th Congress:

Committee on Financial Services
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Monetary Policy
Subcommittee on National Security, Illicit Finance and International Financial Institutions
Committee on House Administration
Subcommittee on Elections
Subcommittee on Oversight (Chair)


=== Caucus memberships ===
Republican Study Committee
U.S.–Japan Caucus
Congressional Coalition on Adoption
Congressional Motorcycle Caucus
Congressional Taiwan Caucus


=== Allegations of aiding the January 6 United States Capitol attack ===
On May 19, 2022, the United States House Select Committee on the January 6 Attack requested that Loudermilk appear for an interview about a tour he led of the United States Capitol Complex on January 5, 2021, the day before the 2021 United States Capitol attack. House Democrats had suggested Loudermilk aided in the attack, which he and House Republicans disputed. In June, Capitol police concluded that there was nothing suspicious about Loudermilk's tour. Capitol police chief Tom Manger said, "There is no evidence that Rep. Loudermilk entered the U.S. Capitol with this group on January 5, 2021." The next day, the committee released video of Loudermilk leading the tour of the Capitol complex on January 5 in areas "not typically of interest to tourists, including hallways, staircases, and security checkpoints"; the footage showed the group walking through tunnels underneath the Capitol, but not within the main building. A man in the tour group can also be seen taking photos of hallways. The committee then shared footage claiming the man was at the riot, showing footage of a man at the storming of the Capitol the next day.
Loudermilk filed an ethics complaint against Representative Mikie Sherrill and other members for alleging he gave a reconnaissance tour of the Capitol on January 5.


== Political positions ==


=== Health care ===
Loudermilk supports reforming Medicaid, Medicare, and Social Security. He supports repealing and replacing the Affordable Care Act ("Obamacare"). He compared the 2017 Republican efforts to repeal Obamacare to the American Revolutionary War and World War II.


=== Donald Trump ===
Loudermilk said he considers the presidency of Donald Trump a "movement" and has praised the concept of "Make America Great Again." He has credited Paul Ryan, rather than Trump, with Republican success in Congress. In 2017, Loudermilk called Ryan a "revolutionary thinker."
In December 2019, Loudermilk likened the impeachment of Trump to the crucifixion of Jesus. In a floor speech, he said, "When Jesus was falsely accused of treason, Pontius Pilate gave Jesus the opportunity to face his accusers... During that sham trial, Pontius Pilate afforded more rights to Jesus than the Democrats have afforded this president in this process", a fact pattern disputed by religious scholarship and rated by PolitiFact as "false."
In December 2020, Loudermilk was one of 126 Republican members of the House of Representatives to sign an amicus brief in support of Texas v. Pennsylvania, a lawsuit filed at the United States Supreme Court contesting the results of the 2020 presidential election, in which Joe Biden defeated Trump. The Supreme Court declined to hear the case on the basis that Texas lacked standing under Article III of the Constitution to challenge the results of an election held by another state.
Given the refusal to accept the 2020 election loss of Donald Trump by allies and supporters, Loudermilk voted to reject the results in both Arizona and Pennsylvania immediately after the January 6th Capitol attack. He was one of 139 Republican House members who objected to certifying Biden as president.


=== Financial and economic issues ===
In 2016, the Club for Growth named Loudermilk a "defender of economic freedom" for his conservative voting record on the economy.
Loudermilk opposes the regulation of buy now, pay later financing.
Loudermilk supports a balanced budget amendment but does not consider it "politically viable."
Loudermilk supports tax reform and voted for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. He called the act a "big Christmas present" for his constituents, claiming it would reduce the deficit, improve the lives of all Americans, and cause more companies to hire due to increased revenues. He said, "I could understand it if all we were doing was just giving a corporate tax break—you could make that argument. But the bulk of the tax reform is giving middle-income Americans a significant tax cut."
Loudermilk supports dismantling the IRS and establishing a flat tax system.


==== Equifax ====
In September 2017, the Georgia-based credit bureau Equifax revealed a data breach that affected 143 million Americans and was characterized by technology journalists as "very possibly the worst leak of personal info ever to have happened". Four months earlier, Loudermilk, who had received $2,000 in campaign contributions from Equifax as part of an extensive lobbying effort, introduced a bill that would reduce consumer protections in relation to the nation's credit bureaus, including capping potential damages in a class action suit to $500,000 regardless of class size or amount of loss. The bill would also eliminate all punitive damages. After criticism from consumer advocates, Loudermilk agreed to delay consideration of the bill "pending a full and complete investigation into the Equifax breach."


=== Foreign policy ===
Loudermilk argued in 2015 against negotiating the Iran nuclear deal. He cited Benjamin Netanyahu's perspective and argued Iran was a dangerous terrorist state—one that sought regional if not global hegemony. He was a Committee on Homeland Security and task force member for the bipartisan 2015 Final Report of the Task Force on Combating Terrorist and Foreign Fighter Travel.


=== Abortion ===
Loudermilk is anti-abortion and believes that life starts at conception. He supports the right to life movement and has said, "Life is the ultimate right endowed by God and it is the responsibility of governments to protect that right, not to destroy it."


=== LGBT rights ===
Loudermilk opposes federal legalization of same-sex marriage, believing it should be decided by states. In 2015, Loudermilk condemned the Supreme Court decision in Obergefell v. Hodges, which held that same-sex marriage bans violated the constitution. He has supported the First Amendment Defense Act.


== Personal life ==
Loudermilk's wife is named Desiree. He has three adult children (Travis, Christiana, and Michael)—who were homeschooled and mostly not vaccinated —and 7 grandchildren as of 2024. Christiana was commended with a 2011 Georgia Senate resolution about her accomplishments in the Civil Air Patrol. Travis, who has worked for Marjorie Taylor Greene, has three children from his relationship with Sarah Redwine.
Loudermilk is a Baptist and has spoken of his attendance to Oakland Heights Baptist Church in Cartersville, GA.
He was "standing near home plate" when the 2017 Congressional baseball shooting began, in which he was uninjured. In response to the shooting, Loudermilk said his assistants in Georgia were armed.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Congressman Barry Loudermilk official U.S. House website
Barry Loudermilk for Congress
Appearances on C-SPAN

Biography at the Biographical Directory of the United States Congress
Financial information (federal office) at the Federal Election Commission
Legislation sponsored at the Library of Congress
Profile at Vote Smart

Pedro de Calabria (active 1712–1725) was a Spanish painter of the Baroque period.
He was born in Valladolid. He was a pupil of Luca Giordano in Naples, whom he accompanied to assist in his works at Madrid. He painted battle-pieces.


== References ==
Bryan, Michael (1886). Robert Edmund Graves (ed.). Dictionary of Painters and Engravers, Biographical and Critical. Vol. I: A-K. London: George Bell and Sons. p. 208.

The Ottawa Rough Riders were a Canadian Football League (CFL) team based in Ottawa, Ontario, founded on September 19, 1876. Formerly one of the oldest and longest-lived professional sports teams in North America, the Rough Riders won the Grey Cup championship nine times. Their most dominant era was the 1960s and 1970s,  in which they won five Grey Cups. The team's fortunes waned in the 1980s and 1990s, and they ultimately ceased operations following the 1996 season. Five years later, a new CFL team known as the Ottawa Renegades was founded, though they suspended operations in 2006. The Ottawa Redblacks, which own the Rough Riders and Renegades intellectual properties, joined the league in 2014.


== Team facts ==
Founded: 1876
Folded: 1996
Formerly known as: Ottawa Football Club (1876–1897), Ottawa Rough Riders (1898–1913, 1931–1996), Ottawa Senators (1914–1915, 1919-1930).
Nickname: The Red and Black (French: Le Rouge et Noir)
Home stadium: Frank Clair Stadium, formerly called Lansdowne Park until 1993
Uniform colours:  Red, black, and white
Helmet design:  Black background with a face of a Rough Rider with a log driver's (rough rider's) pike in the background.
Ontario Rugby Football Union regular season championships: 3 — 1898, 1900, 1902
Quebec Rugby Football Union regular season championships: 1 — 1905
Eastern regular season championships: 19 — 1908, 1925, 1926, 1938, 1939, 1940, 1941, 1945, 1947, 1948, 1949, 1951, 1966, 1968, 1969, 1973, 1975, 1976, 1978
Canadian Dominion Football Championship appearances: 4 — 1898 (won), 1900 (won), 1902 (won), 1905 (lost)
Grey Cup finals appearances: 15 — 1925 (won), 1926 (won), 1936 (lost), 1939 (lost), 1940 (won), 1941 (lost), 1948 (lost), 1951 (won), 1960 (won), 1966 (lost), 1968 (won), 1969 (won), 1973 (won), 1976 (won), 1981 (lost)


== History ==


=== 1876 – 1930 ===

The Ottawa Football Club was organized on Wednesday, September 20, 1876, where they won the first game they played on September 23 against the Aylmer Club at Jacques Cartier Square. The team's colours were cerise, grey, and navy blue. The club adopted the name Ottawa Rough Riders on Friday, September 9, 1898, and changed its team colours to red and black. Since then, red and black have been Ottawa's traditional sporting colours.  Although in later years the name was said to derive from logging (or more specifically, the logdrivers who guided timber down the rivers), the team based its colours on Teddy Roosevelt's regiment in the Spanish–American War, which, with the date of the renaming, suggests that the name also comes from the war. The team changed its nickname to Ottawa Senators from 1925 to 1930.
Ottawa's first Canadian championship came in 1898. The Ottawa Football Club transferred from the Quebec Union to the Ontario League that season. The Riders defeated the Hamilton Tigers 15–8 for the Ontario championship, then defeated Toronto Varsity, the Intercollegiate champions 7–3 and defeated Ottawa College 11–1 to win the Canadian championship. In those days, Ottawa athletes played in multiple sports and the Riders had athletes famous in other sports, such as Harvey Pulford and Frank McGee. The Riders and Ottawa College were the Canadian champions for the next several years, with the Riders defeating Brockville 17–10 in 1900, and defeating Ottawa College 5–0 in 1902, College being the 1901 Canadian champions. The Riders moved back to the Quebec Union, winning the 1903 Quebec championship, in a year where there was no playoff for the Canadian title. In 1905, Ottawa won the Quebec title, only to lose to the Toronto Varsity team 11–9 in the Canadian championship.
The club absorbed the Ottawa St. Pats when the Riders helped found the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union in 1907. The Riders won the IRFU championship in 1909 over the Hamilton Tigers, but lost in the Canadian final in Toronto to Toronto Varsity. The Riders declined and became uncompetitive during the 1910s, attributed to the First World War, and the lure of salaries in professional ice hockey meaning athletes chose hockey over football in Ottawa.

During the decline of the Riders, another Ottawa team, Ottawa St. Brigids, was on an ascent. St. Brigids, which played in the Ottawa City league, and later the Ontario league, was developing top talent. In 1923, St. Brigids and the Riders merged, with St. Brigids manager Jim McCaffery becoming the manager of the Riders. McCaffery was a member of the Riders executive for several decades. The team won the Grey Cup in 1925 and 1926, a time when they were known as the Ottawa Senators. In 1925, Ottawa defeated three-time defending champion Queen's in the Eastern semi-final. Ottawa then defeated Winnipeg 24–1 in the championship, held in Ottawa, and defeated Toronto Varsity 10–7 in Toronto in 1926. The team was led by top players such as Eddie Emerson, Joe Tubman, Joe Miller, Jess Ketchum, Jack Pritchard, Harold Starr and Don Young.


=== 1930 – 1950 ===
The Riders went back into a decline after the championships. Again, another Ottawa team, the Ottawa Rangers, was developing talent and enjoying success, winning the Quebec title. The Riders absorbed the Rangers in 1933, getting Rangers stars Andy Tommy, Arnie Morrison and "Fat Quinn'. That same year the Riders added more talent, bringing in American imports "Windy" O'Neil and Lorne Johnson. In 1935, the Riders added Roy Berry who was mysterious about his origins. The Riders defeated the Toronto Argonauts in the final two games of the Big Four schedule to deny Toronto the Big Four championship. On November 19, 1935, Toronto's The Mail and Empire accused the Riders of using an illegal player in those matches. Editor Edwin Allen stated "Roy Berry" was an alias for Bohn Hilliard, a Texas Longhorns footballer who had played semi-professional baseball. In February 1936, Amateur Athletic Union of Canada president W. A. Fry announced the suspension of nine members of the Ottawa team due to the Roy Berry incident.
In 1936, the Riders won the Big Four title defeating the Hamilton Tigers 3–2. The team progressed to the Eastern final against the Sarnia Imperials. The Imperials won the game 26–20 in a frozen battle held at Toronto's Varsity Stadium. Since there was no western challenge that year, the Imperials became Canadian champions. The highlight of Rough Rider Joe Zelikovitz's football career came in the Big Four game in Hamilton against the Hamilton Tigers on October 15, 1938, when he set the Big Four record with seven interceptions,  a record that still stands unofficially compared to the CFL. The Riders next won the Big Four and Eastern title in 1939, but lost to the Winnipeg Blue Bombers 8–7 in the Grey Cup game, held in Ottawa. In 1940, the Riders won the Big Four and Eastern titles, defeating Toronto Balmy Beach. The win over Balmy Beach carried the Canadian title, as the west refused the Canadian Rugby Union code.
The Big Four went out of existence during the Second World War, but the Riders were able to field a club in the Eastern Rugby Football Union, along with Balmy Beach, Montreal and the Argonauts. The Riders won the 1942 ERFU title over the Argonauts, but again lost to the Blue Bombers in the Canadian final, 18–16 at Varsity Stadium.
The ERFU folded and the Riders continued in the Ottawa City league until 1945 when the Big Four was restarted. During the Riders' time in the Ottawa City league, another team from Ottawa, the Trojans won the Ontario title, and in 1948 the Trojans were absorbed into the Riders.


=== The 1950s ===

The Rough Riders were pioneers in international play in the 1950s. In 1950 and 1951, Ottawa hosted the New York Giants in exhibition games; the Giants won both times, and NFL-CFL matches were not attempted again until 1959.  In the first season of the CFL, the Ottawa Rough Riders and the Hamilton Tiger-Cats made history when they played the first regular season CFL game at Philadelphia's Municipal Stadium on September 14, 1958, as Hamilton defeated Ottawa 24–18.  The Toronto Argonauts had played the Hamilton Tiger-Cats in Buffalo in an exhibition game in 1951, and the Argonauts later faced the Calgary Stampeders in another exhibition game in Portland, Oregon, in 1992; and several CFL games with at least one Canadian team occurred in the United States during the CFL USA era of the early/mid 1990s.)


=== 1960s and 1970s ===

The 1960s and 1970s were the Rough Riders' glory years. With General Manager Red O'Quinn and Coach Frank Clair at the helm along with players Russ Jackson, Whit Tucker, Ron Stewart, Tom Clements, and Tony Gabriel, the Riders were one of the CFL's best teams, winning the Grey Cup in 1968 and 1969 to finish out the decade and then two more under Clair as GM, including their last victory in 1976, where Tony Gabriel made the game-winning touchdown catch in the end zone in a 23–20 win over the Saskatchewan Roughriders. The Rough Riders' final appearance in the Grey Cup game was 1981 against the heavily favoured Edmonton Eskimos. The game started out as a shocker when the Riders jumped out to a 20–1 halftime lead over the Eskimos. But a controversial double interference call against Riders receiver Tony Gabriel late in the game proved to be costly, as the Eskimos, led by backup quarterback Tom Wilkinson, came from behind to beat the Riders 26–23 on a game-winning field goal by kicker Dave Cutler, giving the Eskimos their fourth (out of five) consecutive Grey Cup championship.


=== 1980s and 1990s ===
Throughout most of the 1980s and 1990s, except for two even (.500) records (8–8 in 1983 and 9–9 in 1992), the Riders struggled with losing seasons, poor ownership, mismanagement, and decreased fan support. In 1988, Jo-Anne Polak was named the co-General Manager of the Rough Riders. She became the first woman in CFL history to be appointed to an executive post, and the first female General Manager of any professional sports franchise in North America. Three years later, the team was purchased by Detroit businessman Bernard Glieberman and his son Lonie Glieberman, who became team president, for a dollar. The team changed its logo from a simple block "R" to a double flaming red and silver "RR", and added silver to their traditional red and black colours. Despite a promising year in 1992 the bottom fell out in 1993, when the Gliebermans began making noise about moving the Rough Riders to the United States. The CFL, obviously, did not take kindly to Glieberman's suggestion, but allowed him to split the Rough Riders into American and Canadian halves.  The American half became an expansion franchise known as the Shreveport Pirates under Glieberman's ownership.  The Canadian half retained the Rough Riders name, colours and history under the ownership of modern Ottawa Senators co-founder Bruce Firestone.  This arrangement is similar to the arrangement made by Art Modell and the Cleveland Browns made later in the 1990s.
For the 1994 season the team unveiled its final logo design with the team colours changing from black, silver, and red, to dark navy, red, and gold. The colour changes proved to be unpopular as the team dropped dark navy in favour of a return to black for the 1996 season. Despite the ownership changes, neither Ottawa nor Shreveport played well. In 1995, after a lengthy bankruptcy process in ownership, the Riders were purchased by Chicago businessman and minor league sports entrepreneur Horn Chen, who did not attend a single Riders game. In the dispersal draft of Las Vegas Posse players, Ottawa management drafted Derrell Robertson, who had died the previous December. Following the 1996 season, years of poor ownership and mismanagement took a toll on the Rough Riders franchise that ultimately led to its folding after a storied 120 years. After the Rough Riders folded, the CFL moved its easternmost-West Division team, the Winnipeg Blue Bombers, back to the East Division for a second time to take Ottawa's place and to balance out the divisions (they played in the East from 1987 to 1994, and the Bombers stayed in the East Division from 1997 to 2001; it returned there upon the folding of the Renegades from 2006 to 2013).


=== Two Riders ===
For much of the team's history, it played in the same league as the Saskatchewan Roughriders, confusing many, and also attracting general ridicule to the CFL for being a league with only eight or nine teams, but two of them being named "rough riders" (spelled identically although configured differently; also, the Saskatchewan team's nickname has a well-documented derivation that has nothing to do with the Spanish–American War or logging). For a time, both clubs  shared the same colours of red and black until 1948, when the Saskatchewan team became green and white, which remain their colours to this day. The teams had historically belonged to separate leagues ('unions') until the CFL was formed in 1958. When the CFL was formed, they were allowed to keep their long-standing names; Ottawa was frequently known as the "Eastern Riders" while Saskatchewan was referred to as either the "Western Riders" or "Green Riders". On four occasions, the two teams met in the Grey Cup (1951, 1966, 1969, and 1976); Ottawa won all but the 1966 meeting, which was also Saskatchewan's first Grey Cup in team history.  The Riders vs. Riders matchups were often confusing for fans. Errors were occasionally made on the official scoreboard and commentators often got confused.


=== Ottawa Renegades ===
A CFL franchise in Ottawa was absent for the next five years until 2002, when the city regained a CFL team, named the Renegades. Although sentiment arose toward resurrecting the Rough Riders name, Chen expected payment for the rights to it; the new franchise declined the request, and went with a 'fresh' name for the new team. The team also faced financial problems, ceasing play after the 2005 CFL season.
The Saskatchewan Roughriders opposed the CFL's application to register "Ottawa Rough Riders" as a trademark, and the league abandoned the application in 2016.


=== Ottawa Redblacks ===
In 2008, a partnership of five Ottawa business leaders acquired the Ottawa CFL franchise rights with the intent of relaunching professional football in Ottawa. The CFL also acquired the Rough Riders intellectual properties from Chen. Because the Saskatchewan Roughriders enforced their trademark on the Rough Riders name, Ottawa's new franchise was required to choose a new name.  It took the field in 2014 as the Ottawa Redblacks.
Despite being denied the use of the Rough Riders nickname, the Redblacks do pay homage to the Rough Riders. The Redblacks' primary logo is a stylized version of the block "R" used by the Rough Riders from 1975 to 1991. The currently-used "R" is set within the outline of a saw blade, a nod to Ottawa's logging heritage. In the Redblacks' first home game, they retired the 10 player numbers that the Rough Riders had retired.
For a few years, the CFL did not acknowledge the Redblacks (or for that matter, the Renegades) as the Rough Riders' successor in the same way it considered all three incarnations of the Montreal Alouettes as a single franchise. However, according to the 2017 CFL Guide and Record Book, the CFL now recognizes all three Ottawa-based clubs that played in the CFL or its predecessors–the Rough Riders, the Renegades, and the Redblacks–as "a single entity" dating to 1876 for record-keeping purposes, with "two intervals of non-participation (1997–2001 and 2006–2013)."


== Seasons ==


== Players of note ==


=== Retired numbers ===


=== Canadian Football Hall of Famers ===


=== Other stars ===


== Head coaches ==


=== General managers ===
Jimmy McCaffrey (1923–1959)
George Terlep (1960–1962)
Red O'Quinn (1963–1969)
Frank Clair (1970–1978)
Jake Dunlap (1979–1982)
Don Holtby (1983–1986)
Paul Robson (1987–1988)
Jo-Anne Polak (1989–1991)
Dan Rambo (1992–1993)
Ron Smeltzer (1993)
Phil Kershaw (1994)
Garney Henley (1995–1996)
Leo Cahill (1996)


=== Owners ===
Community ownership
Sam Berger
Gordon Henderson
William Teron
Maurice Strong
Don McLean
David Loeb
Allan Waters
limited partnership of 27 businesses
Bernard Glieberman
Lonnie Glieberman
Bruce Firestone
Horn Chen


== Media personnel ==
Ottawa Journal sports editor Bill Westwick poked fun at the team rather than criticize during their struggles in the mid-1950s. When coach Chan Caldwell suggested that the team could practice on a train ride to an away game by attaching a railway flatcar filled with dirt, Westwick played along with the joke although the plan never happened. A fellow journalist recalled that and Westwick reported on the idea with "brilliant clarity and memorable hilarity".
Newspaper journalist Eddie MacCabe regularly reported on the Rough Riders, travelled with the team, and was the link between the players and the Ottawa community, and was inducted into the Canadian Football Hall of Fame.
Notable radio broadcasters for the Rough Riders include Canadian Football Hall of Fame inductees Ernie Calcutt and John Badham.


=== Radio announcers ===


== See also ==
Ottawa Rough Riders all-time records and statistics
List of Canadian Football League stadiums
Canadian Football Hall of Fame
Canadian football
List of Canadian Football League seasons
Comparison of American and Canadian football
George McPhail


== References ==

Poslední propadne peklu is a Czech adventure film directed by Ludvík Ráža. It was released in 1982.


== Cast ==
Michaela Kudláčková as Magdalena
Ivan Vyskočil as Matouš Psík
Bruno O'Ya as Hoff
Luděk Munzar as Vaněk
Josef Karlík as Kryštof
Dagmar Veškrnová as Keruše
Jiří Holý as Kašehrnek
Petr Haničinec as Bartoš
Martin Růžek as Holoubek
Boris Rösner as Sepp
Josef Somr as Physicus
Ota Sklenčka as Reeve
Petr Oliva as Niklas
Zdeněk Srstka as Bastl
Miroslav Moravec as Poďobaný


== Production ==
Michaela Kudláčková said she broke her leg during filming. "That's when they shot the scene of the girl running through the battle. Mr. Ráza, the director, wanted to make it as dramatic as possible, so he made up the idea of a dead soldier falling on the girl from a passing car. Unfortunately, he didn't think it through. The stuntman was about six feet tall and I was only forty kilos with my bed... When he fell on me, my tibia "snapped" and I ended up with my leg in a cast." Kudlacková said it was complicated to finish the film, "Because we were filming in the spring and I didn't recover until the summer. So we had to wait until autumn, when nature looks similar. Over the summer, we did scenes where I'm sitting and there's no need for my legs to be visible."


== References ==


== External links ==
Poslední propadne peklu at IMDb

The mink industry in Denmark produced 40 percent of the world's pelts. Denmark used to be the largest producer of mink skins in the world. Ranked third in Denmark's agricultural export items of animal origin, fur and mink skins have a yearly export value of about €500 million. Kopenhagen Fur, located in Copenhagen, is the world's largest fur auction house; annually, it sells approximately 14 million Danish mink skins produced by 2,000 Danish fur farmers, and 7 million mink skins produced in other countries. Mink produced in Denmark was considered to be the finest in the world and is ranked by grade, with the best being Saga Royal, followed by Saga, Quality 1, and Quality 2.
In November 2020, a mutated strain of COVID-19 known as "cluster 5" was detected among minks, leading the Danish Government to order the culling of 17 million minks in order to prevent a resurgence in COVID-19 cases, thus temporarily ending the mink industry in Denmark. Mink fur farming was made legal again in 2023. 


== History ==

American mink (Neogale vison) were introduced as a farm animal in Denmark in the mid-1920s – European mink (Mustela lutreola) have never been recorded in Denmark. By the mid-1980s, Denmark was the second largest mink producer, behind the United States. In 1983, it produced 8.3 million pelts, amounting to 22 percent of world production, and in 2002, it produced 12.2 million pelts, representing nearly 40 percent of world production. Fur trade has been declared as one of the twenty nine "special competence clusters in Danish economic life" by the Ministry of Commerce in Denmark.


=== COVID-19 ===

In November 2020, a mutated strain of COVID-19 was found in the animals, resulting in the government ordering the culling of seventeen million mink because of a fear that they could be the catalyst for restarting the international pandemic. At least twelve people have been infected by the mink farm strain though hundreds of cases could be linked to it. The new mutation is known as "cluster 5". In November 2020, the Danish government announced that all remaining mink in Denmark would be culled by 16 November 2020.
It was revealed in late November that the Minister for Agriculture, Mogens Jensen, and five other ministers had been made aware in September that the culling of the entire country's mink population, rather than just those in the infected areas, would be illegal. Facing calls for resignation from the parliamentary opposition and sharp public criticism, Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen acknowledged that the order to cull all minks was illegal, and Jensen resigned on 18 November. A deal was later reached to retroactively make the government's order legal.
On 20 December 2020, the Danish Parliament passed a draft bill to ban mink farming until 2022. Mink breeding became legal again in Denmark from 1 January 2023 onwards, and Icelandic mink are set to play a key role for Danish mink farmers.


== Farm production ==
Climatic conditions in Denmark, where the winter is mild and the summer is cool, are considered ideal for husbanding animals with fur cover. Fish waste from the fishing industry was used as feed at mink farms. A Danish mink farm might have 13,000 cages, set in rows of 60 metres (200 ft) length, and 43 sheds in which two to four minks were housed. Nesting boxes were attached inside the cage. Mink gave birth to their litter of generally five offspring in the nesting boxes; they also fed the litter in the nesting boxes. Using information technology, management, control, breeding and analysis could monitor genetic progress of the mink herd.
Kopenhagen Fur serves as a farmers' cooperative. Concerted efforts of Kopenhagen Fur and Danish Animal Welfare Society (Dyrenes Beskyttelse), have optimized the environmental conditions for mink farming by developing rules, which received approval by the Ministry of Justice in 2007. Danish fur farms produced about 15.6 million minks annually. Though the country had some of the largest mink farms in the world, it also had many small business mink farms run by families.


== Distribution ==

Mink fur of Denmark is exclusively auctioned through Kopenhagen Fur. Auctions are held five times in a year, with the first held in December after the newly pelted skins are ready, and the last in September. Each auction typically sells some 260 million euro worth of fur and lasts five days. Major export markets for Danish mink are China, Hong Kong, Japan, and Korea. In the December 2012 auction, there were 500 bidders with 85 percent of the pelts  purchased by customers from China. Circa 2012, the average price per mink skin was 582 Danish crowns (US$100), then the highest price ever recorded at Kopenhagen Fur.


== References ==

A Taste for Death is the title of an action-adventure novel by Peter O'Donnell which was first published in 1969, featuring the character Modesty Blaise which O'Donnell had created for a comic strip several years earlier. It was the fourth novel to feature the character. The book was first published in the United Kingdom by Souvenir Press.


== Plot summary ==
Canadian Dinah Pilgrim (blind since 11) and her sister Judy are vacationing in Panama. They're attacked on a lonely beach by a pair of gunmen, and Judy is killed and Dinah is taken prisoner. Willie Garvin is nearby and he intervenes, killing the two gunmen, and incidentally determining that they work for Gabriel, the villain from the first Modesty Blaise book.
Willie and Dinah go into hiding, knowing that Gabriel can mobilise the entire Panamanian underworld to search for Dinah. Modesty comes to their aid, and a deadly cat-and-mouse game ensues, with both Modesty and Willie barely surviving traps that should not possibly be survivable.
Back in England, Modesty encounters Simon Delicata, a huge man with an ape-like build, and strength to match. A friend of Sir Gerald Tarrant is dead, and Simon Delicata is the killer. And Willie knows Simon Delicata from long ago, having been beaten senseless and near-fatally injured by him in a barroom fight.
Then Dinah is brutally kidnapped, and it becomes obvious that Gabriel and Simon Delicata are working together. Modesty and Willie travel to Algeria and The Sahara to rescue Dinah. But they're up against the most formidable opponents they've ever crossed swords with. Literally in fact; Modesty has to defeat the fencing master Wenczel in a duel to the death, and he's wearing a protective steel mesh jacket. The final fight, set in an abandoned Foreign Legion fort, occurs with Modesty incapacitated from a serious sword wound and Willie having to go one-on-one unarmed against the man-ape Delicata.


== Aftermath ==
The final Modesty Blaise comic strip story, The Zombie, published in 2001, ends with Modesty and Willie planning to return to the site of Willie's fight with Delicata, recover the buried treasure they left there, and donate it to the Salvation Army. One frame of the strip #10180 depicts the fight between Willie and Delicata in flashback. As a whole, the novels and comic strips tended to follow different continuities, with the occasional exception, such as this.


== Adaptations ==
The novel was adapted by Stef Penney into a five-part serial directed by Kate McAll on BBC Radio 4's 15-Minute Drama from 17 December 2012 to 21 December 2012.  The cast starred Daphne Alexander as Modesty Blaise, Neil Maskell as Willie Garvin, Alun Armstrong as Sir Gerald Tarrant, Ewan Bailey as Gabriel, Sam Dale as Delicata, Geoffrey Streatfeild as Steve Collier, Samantha Dakin as Dinah, Alex Fearns as McWhirter, Matthew Gravelle as Grant, Jeff Mash as Skeet Lowery and Nigel Anthony as Sir Howard Presteign.


== References ==

TV Guide Plus, TV Guide Plus+, TV Guide On Screen, (in North America), Guide Plus+ (in Europe), and G-Guide (in Japan), were brand names for an interactive electronic program guide (EPG) system incorporated into a range of consumer electronics products, including televisions, DVD recorders, digital video recorders (DVR), and other digital television devices. The service provided on‑screen program listings that allowed viewers to navigate, sort, select, and schedule television programming for viewing and recording.
Although marketed under the TV Guide name, the on‑screen service was separate from the long‑running TV Guide magazine. Gemstar acquired the magazine in 1999 to align its electronic listings with the established print brand, but after Rovi purchased Gemstar in 2008 the magazine was sold off to OpenGate Capital and is operated independently. The on‑screen system itself passed to Rovi Corporation, which later acquired TiVo Inc. in 2016 and adopted the TiVo (now Xperi) name. The service was discontinued between 2012 and the start of 2017, following an abrupt cutoff of programing data in North America and a gradual withdrawal of support worldwide.


== History ==
The system was first introduced in the United States and Japan during the mid‑1990s, before expanding into European markets in the following decade. By the early 2000s, it was available through broadcast and MVPD operators in Canada, France, Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom, Austria, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Italy.
By the late 2000s, Rovi also became known for defending its program guide technology in court. The company brought cases against services such as Hulu and later Netflix, arguing that their on‑screen menus copied features of the TV Guide system. Several of these claims were later rejected by U.S. judges, narrowing the scope of Rovi's patents.
While those disputes played out, the on‑screen guide service itself was entering a period of decline. Rovi began winding down broadcast data in North America in 2012 with support being rapidly dropped from new televisions and DVRs soon after. Most devices on the continent had lost all EPG access by spring 2013, and Eurasian versions were gradually withdrawn over the next few years. Official notices confirmed the service's end by the beginning of 2017, which marked the conclusion of its two decade long history.


== Technical overview ==
A number of major consumer electronics manufacturers offered compatible devices including, Channel Master, JVC, Panasonic, Thomson (under the RCA, GE, and ProScan brands), Samsung, Sharp, Sony, LG, and Toshiba. Because the system was advertiser supported, program listings were distributed free to viewers, regardless of whether they received signals via terrestrial, cable, or satellite.
Gemstar also developed EPG software for personal computers, which was bundled with ATI Technologies analog NTSC tuner cards, including the TV Wonder and All-in-Wonder series. With the transition to digital broadcasting, ATI partnered with TitanTV to provide listings for its ATSC tuner cards.
The original analog implementation transmitted data through the vertical blanking interval (VBI) lines, usually 11–18, 20, and 22, of participating television stations, in a manner similar to closed captioning and teletext. This took up to 24 hours to download on the initial setup, because the information was delivered at low bitrate. By the mid‑2000s, the service had transitioned to digital using out‑of‑band data channels, which relied on a vendor licensed feed that supplied expanded program descriptions and advertising metadata.


== Digital television ==
The digital version of the service was first introduced in the mid‑2000s, beginning in the United States in 2006 alongside the rollout of the ATSC. Other regions also moved from analog to digital TV, adopting systems such as DVB-T/T2 in Europe and ISDB in Japan. In markets where the service was supported, it offered a consistent interface across different brands of televisions and recorders. In the United States, the federally mandated digital transition on June 12, 2009, rendered some older receivers and recorders unable to access listings.
At the same time, the Program and System Information Protocol (PSIP) became the standard method for U.S. broadcasters to transmit basic EPG data within ATSC signals. The Federal Communications Commission continues to require full power television stations, unlike MVPD providers, to supply PSIP information. While implementation has varied and some stations provide incomplete listings, PSIP remains in use as the main program guide system for ATSC 1 broadcasts.
Unlike PSIP, which offers only limited program details, the TV Guide system was licensed separately to manufacturers. Device makers paid royalties to Rovi to embed the software, which in turn provided a more comprehensive guide resembling the functionality of digital satellite and cable platforms, including multi‑day listings and DVR features.
With the introduction of ATSC 3.0 (branded NextGen TV), PSIP continues to serve legacy ATSC broadcasts, while its functions are being supplemented by new signaling and EPG protocols such as the Service List Table (SLT). In Europe and several other regions, the comparable digital terrestrial standard is DVB-T2, which uses the DVB Service Information (DVB‑SI) framework to deliver EPG data.


== See also ==
TV Guide
PSIP
DVB-T2
Electronic program guide


== References ==


== External links ==
TV Guide listing homepage
Guide Plus (Archived)
TV Guide On Screen (Archived)

Daud Khan Karrani (died 12 July 1576) was the last ruler of Bengal's Karrani dynasty as well as the final Sultan of Bengal, reigning from 1573 to 1576. During the reign of his father Sulaiman Khan Karrani, Daud commanded a massive army of 40,000 cavalry, 3,600 elephants, 140,000 infantry and 200 cannons.


== Reign ==
After the assassination of Bayazid Khan Karrani, Daud was raised to the throne by the nobles. Both Bayazid and Daud shook off their allegiance to Akbar and issued coins in their own names. However, Daud's hot-tempered attitude created disruption among the Karrani nobles.  


=== War with Mughals ===


==== Invasion of Jamania ====
Emperor Akbar moved against Daud Khan after the latter invaded Zamania (near Ghazipur). The Bengali army razed the city to the ground and captured its fort. In response, Akbar ordered Munim Khan, the governor of Jaunpur, to proceed against Daud. However, Munim Khan met with his friend Ludi Khan, Daud's Prime Minister, in Patna and opted for a truce.
The agreement pleased neither Akbar nor Daud, and Ludi Khan was subsequently put to death by Daud.


==== Battle of Patna ====
In 1573 Munim Khan attacked Bihar, forcing Daud to retreat and take shelter in Patna. Daud sent Katlu Lohani, Gujar Khan Karrani and Sri Hari against the Mughal army. Munim Khan, along with Todar Mal and Man Singh, made the first attack in Hajipur. After a fierce battle, the Bengalis and Afghans were at the verge of victory. However, Akbar then re-captured the neighboring fort of Hajipur, which was the source of rations for the army of his opponent. The Bengalis along with the Afghans fell in distress and retreated to Bengal. Akbar returned to the capital after appointing Munim Khan as the governor of Bihar and Bengal. Todar Mal was also left to assist him.


==== Battle of Tukaroi ====

On 3 March 1575 a fierce battle was fought between the Mughals and the Afghans in Tukaroi. The result was a draw and the Afghans retreated to Katak, Orissa. The Mughals captured Tanda. Bengal. Munim Khan transferred the capital of Bengal from Tanda to Gaur. In the treaty of Katak, Daud ceded Bengal and Bihar to the Mughals. But he retained only Orissa as his possession. Six months later a plague broke out, and Munim Khan suddenly died in October 1575. The Mughal army was forced to retreat from Eastern Bengal by Kalapahar and Isa Khan. Daud marched from Orissa to successfully recaptured Gaur.


==== Battle of Rajmahal ====

Akbar sent a new army under the command of Khan Jahan Quli to face his formidable foe Daud Khan. He captured Teliagarhi and advanced towards Rajmahal. The two armies met in the battlefield of Rajmahal. The battle went on for many days.  As the fight was getting too difficult for Akbar, he requested the governor of Bihar, Muzaffar Khan Turbati and other generals to join him. On the other side Daud was accompanied by other principal Afghan leaders like Junaid, Qutlu Khan and Ismail Khan Lodhi. After a fierce battle on 12 July 1576, Daud was finally defeated and executed.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Daud Khan Karrani at Wikimedia Commons

Giselda Volodi (born 1959) is an Italian actress. She was born Giselda Mazzantini, in Tangier, Morocco, to the family of writer Carlo Mazzantini and artist Anne Donnelly. She is the sister of writer/actress Margaret Mazzantini and producer Moira Mazzantini. She made her film debut in Hudson Hawk. Other roles since then include Ocean's Twelve, The Grand Budapest Hotel and A Brief Affair.


== References ==

And So It Goes is a 2014 American comedy drama film directed by Rob Reiner and written by Mark Andrus. The film stars Michael Douglas, Diane Keaton and Sterling Jerins. 
Self-absorbed realtor Oren enlists the help of his neighbor Leah when he is suddenly left in charge of Sarah, the granddaughter he suddenly meets, when his estranged son Luke drops her off at his home. In the process, the pair is able to heal emotionally.
The film was released on July 25, 2014, received mostly negative reviews from critics, and performed modestly at the box office. The film was the second collaboration between Reiner and Douglas, after The American President (1995). This film was also Frances Sternhagen's final feature film role before her death on November 27, 2023.


== Plot ==
Oren Little, a realtor by trade, develops self-absorption, turning his back on his neighbors and shunning the notion of kindness to others. After his wife dies, part of his self-absorption is having no patience for children, not even his own now-adult estranged son. His next-door neighbor, Leah, whose own husband has likewise died, never had any children of her own, which leads her to throw her soul and her tears into reviving a singing career that had stagnated.
One day, Oren's estranged son Luke suddenly leaves his father in charge of his own ten-year-old daughter Sarah, a granddaughter who Oren never knew existed. When Luke drops Sarah off at his home, needing his father to take care of her, neither Oren nor Leah, each of whom are lonely souls, have any reason to suspect that Sarah's involvement with their lives will enable them to heal their emotional wounds.


== Cast ==


== Production ==

Filming began in June 2013 in Connecticut. Shooting also took place in California and Greater Manchester.


== Music ==
On December 17, 2013, it was announced that Marc Shaiman had composed the music for the film.


== Release ==
The first trailer for the film was released on May 9, 2014.
Released on July 25, 2014, the film earned $4,642,329 in its opening weekend. Over its 10-week run, And So It Goes earned a gross in the U.S. of $15,160,801 and a gross in other markets of $10,151,586 for a total box-office of $25,312,387, against a production budget of $18 million, not including marketing costs.


== Reception ==
And So It Goes received negative reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes, it has an approval rating of 16%  based on 86 reviews with the consensus: "And So It Goes aims for comedy, but with two talented actors stuck in a half-hearted effort from a once-mighty filmmaker, it ends in unintentional tragedy". On Metacritic, it has a weighted average score of 38 out 100 based on 31 reviews, indicating "generally unfavorable" reviews. Audiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade B+ on scale of A to F.
Film critic Leonard Maltin gave the film a positive review, saying the film "offers juicy leading roles to stars Michael Douglas and Diane Keaton." Christy Lemire of Roger Ebert.com also commended the caliber of Douglas' and Keaton's performances, but gave the film 1.5 stars for its storyline, saying: "Nothing here is a spoiler. The outcome is evident from the poster alone". A review in The Washington Post review credits "the film's most alive moments" to Keaton, who channels her Annie Hall character in both her wardrobe and her singing jazz ballads in a local pub. While a review in The Guardian is happy to see "retirement-age characters" being featured in a film, it criticizes the "banal" plot, saying: "the story structure is so fake and so plodding". Film critic Richard Corliss also gave the film a negative review, saying: "And So It Goes may touch the frayed heartstrings of some older viewers, but it's pretty bad — the failed attempt to Heimlich a venerable movie genre."


== References ==


== External links ==
And So It Goes at IMDb
And So It Goes at Box Office Mojo
And So It Goes at Rotten Tomatoes

Broadbridge Heath Football Club is a football club based in Broadbridge Heath, near Horsham, in West Sussex, England. They are currently members of the Isthmian League South East Division and play at the High Wood Hill Sports Ground.


== History ==
The club was established in 1919 by demobilised soldiers. Despite having only twelve players, they won the Horsham & District League and the Challenge Cup in their first season. When the league merged into the West Sussex League in 1970, Broadbridge Heath were placed in Division Three, winning the Division Three Charity Cup in the first season in the league and earning promotion to Division Two in their second. They promoted to the Premier Division after winning the Division One title in 1975–76, but left to join the Southern Counties Combination League in 1978. When this league merged into the Sussex County League in 1983, the club were placed in the new Division Three.
After finishing third in 1987–88, the club were promoted to Division Two. They remained in Division Two until a third-place finish in 1997–98 saw them promoted to Division One. However, the club finishing bottom of Division One the following season and were relegated back to Division Two. In 2007–08 they finished second-from-bottom of Division Two and were relegated to Division Three. Despite only finishing fifth in 2011–12, they were promoted back to Division Two, and after finishing as runners-up in Division Two in 2013–14, the club were promoted to Division One. In 2015 the Sussex County League was renamed the Southern Combination, with Division One becoming the Premier Division. The club were Premier Division champions in 2022–23, earning promotion to the South East Division of the Isthmian League.


== Ground ==
Between 1979 and 1987 the club played at Wickhurst Lane, a former Army camp. The land was bought by Tesco for redevelopment, with a supermarket and leisure centre built on the site. The leisure centre featured a multi-purpose arena including an athletics track surrounding a grass playing surface with a large seated stand on one side of the track. The football club became tenants at the new arena.
In the summer of 2019, Broadbridge Heath moved to a new ground built next to the Bridge leisure centre, called High Wood Hill Sports Ground.


== Management ==


== Honours ==
Southern Combination League
Premier Division champions 2022–23
West Sussex League
Division One champions 1975–76
Division Three Charity Cup winners 1970–71


== Records ==
Best FA Cup performance: Second qualifying round, 2024–25
Best FA Trophy performance: Third qualifying round, 2025–26
Best FA Vase performance: Second round, 2017–18


== See also ==
Broadbridge Heath F.C. players


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Jacques Philip (born 22 March 1963) is a French former professional footballer who played as a defender. He notably played for Lyon in the Division 2 and for Laval and Caen in the Division 1.


== References ==

In mathematics, the homology or cohomology of an algebra may refer to

Banach algebra cohomology of a bimodule over a Banach algebra
Cyclic homology of an associative algebra
Group cohomology of a module over a group ring or a representation of a group
Hochschild homology of a bimodule over an associative algebra
Lie algebra cohomology of a module over a Lie algebra
Supplemented algebra cohomology of a module over a supplemented associative algebra


== See also ==
Cohomology
Ext functor
Tor functor

King's College (Nepali: किङ्स कलेज) is a private business school situated at Babarmahal, Kathmandu, Nepal. It is affiliated to Westcliff University, California.


== History ==
It was established as an A level institute in 2003. Later in 2009, the college extended other higher level studies as Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) and Master's in Business Administration (MBA).


=== 2010–2015 ===
In 2014, the college received awards for third best business school of Nepal and second best graduate business school (MBA) of Nepal. The college took the affiliation of Westcliff University, California, an accredited American University in 2015.


=== Partnership with Yunus Social Business Center ===
In 2016, the college has entered into partnership with Yunus Center of Dhaka at the premise of Grameen Bank. The chief signatory were Director of King's College Narottam Aryal and Nobel Prize Winner Muhammad Yunus. The purpose of the partnership was to establish Yunus Social Business Center in Nepal by the King's College.


=== 2017–present ===
The college took part in KAF Corporate Quiz in 2017. On 7 July 2017, the college celebrated their first convocation with 130 MBA graduates and 76 BBA graduates. The program was attended by then Deputy Prime Minister and Education Minister Gopal Man Shrestha. In September 2017, the college had announced to host 16th International Entrepreneurship Forum (IEF) conference at Hotel Radisson. The theme of the program was Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Development and the partner in association was Essex Business School, London. On 27 February 2018, the college released first issue of International Journal of Entrepreneurship and Economic Issues at a program in Hotel Radisson. The in-house journal focused on developing strong research culture. In 2018, the college has organized second celebration programme called Hamro Utsav. The programme is focused on stock market challenge, social media marketing, business planning, human resources management and quiz shows. Additional programmes were mad aids, short movie, thematic photography, battle of bands, junk arts, college icon, dance competition, event planning, business exhibition, drawing competitions. In 2019, the college partnered up with Lufthansa Group in order to organize Impact Week Nepal 2019, where students from different colleges took part and created solutions for different problems in the locality using Design Thinking approach.


== Courses ==
The college offers Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA), Master's in Business Administration (MBA), MBA entrepreneurship, MBA in eBusiness and MBA for professionals (MBA pro).


== Notable alumni ==
Niti Shah Miss International 2017 Nepal- Currently pursuing education here


== See also ==
Westcliff University
Nepal Open University
Kathmandu College of Management


== References ==


== External links ==
Official Website

Asalikent (Russian: Асаликент; Lezgian: Асалдхуьр) is a rural locality (a selo) in Ispiksky Selsoviet, Suleyman-Stalsky District, Republic of Dagestan, Russia. Population:  324 (2010 census); 319 (2002 census); 185 (1989 Soviet census). There are 8 streets.


== Geography ==
Asalikent is located 194 km (121 mi) southeast of Makhachkala and 8 km (5.0 mi) southeast of Kasumkent (the district's administrative centre) by road. Salyan is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

9–11 East 16th Street is a seven-story building between Union Square West and Fifth Avenue in the Ladies' Mile Historic District of Manhattan in New York City, just west of Union Square. The building was designed by Louis Korn for Martin Johnson and built between 1895 and 1896.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to 9-11 East 16th Street at Wikimedia Commons

Éric Alard (born 26 August 1967) is a French bobsledder who competed during the 1990s. He won a bronze medal in the two-man event at the 1995 FIBT World Championships in Winterberg. He also competed in the two man event at the 1998 Winter Olympics.
Alard in March 2007 started a website named Ordisport.fr, a French site devoted to sport coaching.


== References ==


== External links ==
Bobsleigh two-man world championship medalists since 1931
Netpme.fr interview with Alard (in French)

The University of Negros Occidental – Recoletos, Incorporated (UNO-Recoletos, Filipino: Unibersidad ng Negros Occidental – Rekoletos, Incorporated, colloquially UNO-R), is a private, Catholic coeducational basic and higher education institution administered by the Order of Augustinian Recollects in Bacolod, Negros Occidental, Philippines. It was founded in 1941.
All six colleges and Integrated School departments (N-10 and Grades 11 and 12) of UNO-Recoletos are undergoing accreditation from the Philippines Accrediting Association of Schools, Colleges and Universities (PAASCU). The Recoletos de Bacolod Graduate School (RBGS) is undergoing accreditation from PACUCOA.  Moreover, Department of Computer Studies is recognized by the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) the distinction as Center of Development and Excellence.
Additionally, CHED, through the Institutional Development and Innovation Grant (IDIG) proposals, funded an e-Learning initiative for agriculture education project in the institution. The project is called the Recoletos Online Learning Extension and administered by the Agriculture Program under the College of Arts and Sciences.


== History ==

The University of Negros Occidental – Recoletos was founded in 1941 in Talisay, Negros Occidental by Dr. Antonio A. Lizares and Dr. Francisco Kilayko. Then known as Occidental Negros Institute, the school offered first and second years of high school education. Upon the outbreak of World War II in the Philippines in December of that same year, the institute closed temporarily.
Occidental Negros Institute was re-established in Bacolod in 1946, this time offering elementary, high school and three tertiary degree programs. The campus transferred from Locsin street (formerly Smith Street) to Lupit Subdivision in Lizares Avenue, its present site, in 1950. Dr. Antonio Lizares served as the school's first President with Dr. Francisco Kilayko as the School Director.
On May 15, 1957, ONI was elevated to university status by the Acting Secretary of Education, Martin V. Aguilar, Jr. ONI became the University of Negros Occidental, the first university in the province. Five years later, on May 25, 1962, UNO was acquired by the Augustinian Recollect friars. UNO became the University of Negros Occidental-Recoletos with Fr. Federico Terradillos, OAR, as the first acting Rector.
As of August 31, 2022, Reverend Fr. Joel A. Alve was appointed as the University's 18th president.


== Academics ==
UNO-R offers Pre-School, Grade School, Junior High School, and Senior High School through its Integrated School, as well as diploma programs, undergraduate and graduate level programs. As of 2023, it has seven academic colleges, namely:

College of Arts and Sciences
Bachelor of Arts in Communication
Bachelor of Science in Agriculture
Bachelor of Science in Psychology
Bachelor of Science in Social Work
College of Business and Accountancy
Bachelor of Science in Accountancy
Bachelor of Science in Business Administration, Major in:
Financial Management
Marketing Management
Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management
Bachelor of Science in Management Accounting
College of Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Civil Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Electronics Engineering
Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering
College of Criminal Justice Education
Bachelor of Science in Criminology
College of Education
Bachelor of Elementary Education
Bachelor of Physical Education
Bachelor of Secondary Education, Major in:
English
Filipino
Mathematics
Science
Social Studies
Bachelor of Special Needs Education with Specialization in Elementary School Teaching
College of Allied Medical Health Sciences
Bachelor of Science in Medical Technology/Medical Laboratory Science
Bachelor of Science in Nursing
Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy
College of Information Technology
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science
Bachelor of Science in Entertainment and Multimedia Computing
Bachelor of Science in Information System
Bachelor of Science in Information Technology
UNO-R also has a School of Law and a graduate school named the Recoletos de Bacolod Graduate School. UNO-R also offers TESDA-accredited courses under the Recoletos Industrial and Technology Training Center (RITTC).


== Patron saint ==

The University's patron saint is Nicholas of Tolentino. Saint Nicholas of Tolentino, known as the Patron of Holy Souls, was born at Sant' Angelo, near Fermo, in Italy in the March of Ancona, around 1246. His parents, Compagnonus de Guarutti and Amata de Guidiani, were originally unable to have a child, but after praying at a shrine of St. Nicholas of Myra, Amata became pregnant, and they named their son after the saint.
The University's official student publication, the Tolentine Star, established in 1947, pays homage to the saint.


== OAR schools in the Philippines ==
University of San Jose–Recoletos (Cebu City)
San Sebastian College–Recoletos (Manila)
San Sebastian College–Recoletos de Manila, Canlubang satellite campus (Calamba, Laguna)
San Sebastian College–Recoletos de Cavite
Colegio de Santo Tomas – Recoletos (San Carlos City, Negros Occidental)
Colegio San Nicolas de Tolentino–Recoletos (formerly UNO-R High School Talisay Branch) (Talisay City, Negros Occidental)
Colegio de San Pedro Academy–Recoletos (Poblacion, Valencia, Negros Oriental)
San Pedro Academy–Recoletos (Caidiocan, Valencia, Negros Oriental)


=== Seminary and Formation Houses ===
Santo Tomas de Villanueva Recoletos Formation House (High School) (San Carlos City, Negros Occidental)
Casiciaco Recoletos Seminary (formerly Seminario Mayor - Recoletos de Baguio) (Philosophy) (Baguio)
Recoletos Formation Center (Theology) (Mira-Nila Homes, Quezon City)


== See also ==
Augustinians
Augustinian Recollects
Bridgittines
List of tertiary schools in Bacolod City
Order of the Canons Regular of Premontre
Society of Saint Augustine


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Order of Augustinian Recollects - Province of St. Ezekiel Moreno Website
International Order of St. Augustine
Text of the Rule of St. Augustine
The Society of Saint Augustine (S.S.A.)  Societas Sancti Augustini Archived 2014-11-29 at the Wayback Machine
University of Negros Occidental – Recoletos on Facebook

Business Environment Council (BEC) (Chinese: 商界環保協會) is a charitable non-profit-making organization established by the Hong Kong business sector to promote environmental sustainability in Hong Kong. BEC has four types of membership, including Council Member, Corporate Member, General Member and Affiliate Member, and most of them are listed companies in Hong Kong. Its current chairman is Kevin O'Brien (Gammon Construction Limited). The Headquarters of BEC is located at 77 Tat Chee Ave, Kowloon Tong. The BEC Building attained the BEAM Plus Platinum Rating for Existing Buildings, the highest achievable green building rating in Hong Kong twice, in October 2017 and January 2023.


== Major programmes ==
EnviroSeries Conference
Staged twice a year, EnviroSeries Conference aims to provide a cross-sector forum to discuss and address key issues related to Hong Kong's environmental sustainability.

Net-zero Carbon Charter
To align with Hong Kong’s 2050 carbon neutrality goal, the rebranded Net-zero Carbon Charter, which was formerly launched as the BEC Low Carbon Charter in March 2019, aims to make a collective effort among businesses and organisations, urging them to set targets and actions for a net-zero future through a pledge. Under the framework of the Charter, BEC designs and hosts events and programmes to guide companies in formulating, executing, and achieving their objectives. As of June 2024, there is a total of 75 Charter Signatories, in which 20 are the Science-aligned Signatories, while the remaining 55 are Action Signatories.


== Major members ==
BEC has four types of membership: Council Member, Corporate Member, General Member and Affiliate Member, and which mainly come from leading listed, multinational or holding companies, large private or government-mandated corporations.


== Organisational structure ==


== See also ==
1992 in the environment


== References ==

Laguna Chaplín is a lake in the San Ignacio de Velasco Municipality, José Miguel de Velasco Province, Santa Cruz Department, Bolivia. At an elevation of 190 m, its surface area is 13 km2.


== References ==
2017 - Objectif Sauvage - The expedition of three Swiss filmmakers to Laguna Chaplin (French Language, 1h 20 min)

Wilbur T. Braithwaite (May 24, 1926 – April 12, 2010) was a high school basketball and tennis coach for Manti High School. He was honored with the National Federation of State High School Associations (NFHS) award of Merit in 2006, and was selected as an Olympic torch bearer for his city Manti, Utah, on February 5, 2002.
"Coach" was also known as a poet, philosopher, business-owner, musician, composer, and pen-pal. He is believed to have written thousands of uplifting, hand-written letters over his life  to people all over the country including coaches John Wooden and Bob Knight.


== Personal life and education ==
Wilbur Braithwaite was born to Charles G. and Eva Tuttle Braithwaite in Manti, Utah, and graduated from Manti High School.  During World War II, at the age of 18, he served in Company A of the 253rd Regiment, 63rd Infantry Division in the European Theater of Operations.  He was injured by a "Bouncing Betty" landmine and took 11 months to recover.  He received the Purple Heart for these wounds presented near the border of France and Southern Germany.
After he returned home, Braithwaite enrolled at Snow College.  He also attended Weber State College, and Utah State University and played basketball and tennis there. Ultimately he earned a master's degree in physical education and counseling from the University of Michigan.  He turned down a job offer to be a physical education teacher and tennis coach from Utah State University to work at Manti High School in 1951.
On July 18, 1952, he married Jane Anderson in the Manti Utah Temple. Together they had seven children. Braithwaite was an active member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and one of the most visible and supportive members of the Braithwaite Family Organization. He died in his home in 2010.


== Coaching career ==
Braithwaite coached varsity tennis for 52 years, which included 11 state championship teams. He provided 40 years of free summer tennis instruction. In 37 years of coaching high school basketball, Braithwaite was never given a technical foul.


== Accomplishments and Honors ==
In 1999, Manti High School named its new gym and tennis courts after Braithwaite.  In 1989, he was inducted into the National Federation of State High School Associations Hall of Fame. In 2004, he was inducted into the Utah Tennis Hall of fame, and in 2006 he was inducted into the Utah Sports Hall of Fame.


== Philosophy ==
Braithwaite's philosophy appeared in Coach's Quarterly.  A poem of his appeared on the front page of The Washington Coach (the official publication of the Washington State Coaches Association) in fall 2002.


== See also ==
Utah High School Activities Association
National Federation of State High School Associations


== References ==

Eight Corners is an unincorporated community in the town of Sigel, Wood County, Wisconsin, United States.
Eight Corners originally was built up at an eight-pointed intersection, hence the name.


== Notes ==

Eledone nigra is a little-known species of octopus described from one male and six females which were taken in Luderitz Bay, Namibia and has only been recorded subsequently in 1941, 1983 and 1991, all from Luderitz Bay.


== References ==

The Vigil Stakes is a thoroughbred horse race run annually at Woodbine Racetrack in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is a Grade III sprint race open to horses aged three and older with a purse of Can$150,000. It is currently run in late July over a distance of 6 furlongs on Woodbine's Tapeta (synthetic dirt) surface.
Inaugurated as the Vigil Handicap, it was first run in 1956 at Fort Erie Race Track where it remained until 1980. Since inception it has been contested at various distances:

5.5 furlongs :1956-1958
6 furlongs: 1959
6.5 furlongs: 1960
1+1⁄16 miles (8.5 furlongs): 1961-1979
7 furlongs: 1980–2017, 2025-Present
6 furlongs: 2018–2024


== Records ==
Speed  record: (Through 1998, Woodbine times were recorded in fifths of a second. Since 1999 they are in hundredths of a second)

1:08.06 - Pink Lloyd (2020) (at current distance of 6 furlongs)
1:20.07 - Hollywood Hit (2009) (at distance of 7 furlongs)
Most wins:

4 - Pink Lloyd (2017, 2018, 2019, 2020)
Most wins by an owner:

4 - Gardiner Farm (1969, 1970, 1973, 1974)
4 - Entourage Stable (2017, 2018, 2019, 2020)
Most wins by a jockey:

5 - Robin Platts (1969, 1974, 1976, 1981, 1987)
Most wins by a trainer:

6 - Lou Cavalaris, Jr. (1964, 1966, 1969, 1970, 1973, 1974)
6 - Rober P. Tiller (2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, 2023, 2024)


== Winners ==

† In 1979, Coverack finished first but was disqualified and set back to third.


== See also ==
List of Canadian flat horse races


== References ==

The Vigil Stakes at Pedigree Query
The 2009 Vigil Stakes at Thoroughbred Times

Jeanne-Hippolyte Devismes (née Moyroud, 4 January 1770 — 12 January 1836) was a French composer.
Born in Lyon, she studied the piano with Daniel Steibelt and married the director of the Académie Royale de Musique (the Paris Opéra), Jacques de Vismes. Her only known works are a song, "La Dame Jacinthe", and an opera, Praxitėle, ou la ceinture, which was first staged at the Paris Opéra on 24 July 1800. The work was a success and ran for 16 performances. The score has not survived complete. Devismes died in Caudebec-en-Caux.


== References ==

"The Three Worlds of Evangelicalism" is an essay by Aaron Renn published in the February 2022 issue of First Things magazine. The essay refined a chronological framework—which Renn had originally developed in 2017 and described as "positive world", "neutral world", and "negative world"—for understanding the relationship of Protestant evangelicalism with an increasingly secular American culture during the late 20th and early 21st centuries. The essay was widely discussed among evangelicals and was expanded into a full-length book, Life in the Negative World, published in 2024. 


== Background ==
Renn is a Presbyterian layman and a former management consultant who later became an urban policy analyst at the Manhattan Institute. In 2016, he began writing a newsletter on men's issues called "The Masculinist". In September 2017 he published an issue that first articulated the "three worlds" concept. The issue of the newsletter was praised by Eastern Orthodox blogger Rod Dreher, and Dreher's link and support increased Renn's subscribers from around 250 to over 1,000, encouraging Renn to continue writing the newsletter.


== Summary of the argument ==
The article begins with a description of late 2010s and early 2020s fissures within evangelicalism, particularly over evangelical support for Donald Trump, faith deconstruction and allegations of wokeness, among other topics. "Where once there was a culture war between Christianity and secular society, today there is a culture war within evangelicalism itself," Renn wrote. "These divisions do not only represent theological differences. They also result from particular strategies of public engagement that developed over the last few decades, as the standing of Christianity has gradually eroded." To describe how evangelicals conducted engagement with the broader culture, Renn expanded on his earlier framework of three "worlds".


=== Positive world ===
During the "positive world", which Renn roughly dated as prior to 1994, the broader society retained a positive view of Christianity, publicly identifying as a Christian enhanced one's status, and Christian moral norms overlapped with broader social norms. As a result, evangelical public engagement was dominated by a culture war strategy typified by the Moral Majority, in which the religious right could plausibly claim to represent most Americans' views. However, Renn also described the seeker-sensitive church movement pioneered by Willow Creek Community Church as another "positive world" engagement approach, which "was predicated on an underlying friendliness to Christianity; it's a model that assumes that large numbers of people are actively seeking."


=== Neutral world ===
During a transitional period, roughly from 1994 to 2014, the broader society was mostly neutral toward Christians. Christians' status was neither privileged nor disfavored, and "Christianity [was] a valid option within a pluralistic public square." The characteristic strategy of evangelicals was "cultural engagement", in which evangelicals did not reject secular culture but rather sought to present Christianity as a compelling alternative for non-Christian audiences and on non-Christian platforms. Renn wrote that this approach was typified by churches like Tim Keller's Redeemer Presbyterian Church and Hillsong Church. So-called neutral-world cultural engagement was predominantly practiced by college-educated evangelicals moving to urban areas with reduced crime rates. "These evangelicals tended to downplay flashpoint social issues such as abortion or homosexuality," Renn wrote. "Instead, they emphasized the gospel, often in a therapeutic register, and priorities like helping the poor and select forms of social activism. They were also much less political than the positive-world Christians—though this distinction broke down in 2016, when many in this group vociferously opposed Donald Trump."


=== Negative world ===
Renn said that since roughly 2014—shortly before the 2015 Obergefell v. Hodges decision that legalized same-sex marriage throughout the United States—being known as a Christian has become a social and professional negative, particularly in elite circles. "Christian morality is expressly repudiated and seen as a threat to the public good and the new public moral order. Subscribing to Christian moral views or violating the secular moral order brings negative consequences." According to Renn's article, one possible engagement strategy in the negative world is the "Benedict option" advocated by Dreher—which calls for more limited engagement with secular culture for the purpose of preserving religious beliefs and practices in a hostile environment—but Renn argues that by evangelicals have either neglected or rejected the Benedict option, an outcome he says "was rooted in a denial of reality. Evangelicals were, and to a great extent still are, unwilling to accept that they now live in the negative world." Because of this unwillingness to accept the negative world, Renn argued that evangelicals' lack of interest in the Benedict option was not mitigated by the development of any other "negative-world ministry strategy".
Renn argued that "cultural engagers", many of whom live in secular urban environments and work with or interact with non-Christians, have the most to lose from a negative world. Cultural engagers have pursued two paths: one of trying to find additional accommodation with secular interlocutors—for example, on issues of race, climate change or inclusion of LGBT persons short of affirming gay marriage—or the path of "ex-vangelicalism" and deconstruction. Meanwhile, more socially and economically downscale "culture warriors" moved into support for Trumpism. Renn asserted that many evangelical leaders fall into the camp of cultural engagers, heightening tensions between rank and file evangelicals and their leaders, and that many congregations are experiencing tensions within their own memberships associated with divergent responses to the so-called negative world.


== Reception ==

According to political scientist Daniel Bennett in Christianity Today, "[r]arely does an essay cause such a stir as Aaron Renn's 'The Three Worlds of Evangelicalism.'" Bennett added that Renn "elicited a wide range of responses, from wholehearted agreement to sympathetic skepticism to vociferous disagreement, and seemingly everything in between." The British news outlet Evangelicals Now described the essay as "one of the most read and talked-about articles in the Christian world and even the secular media in the United States." The essay was the most-read print issue article on First Things' website in 2022.
Writing for The Gospel Coalition, Trevin Wax praised Renn's framework for its "significant explanatory power for why Christians are feeling and reacting in particular ways in this moment," and Kevin DeYoung said he was "generally in agreement" with the thesis.
David French—whom Renn characterized as a former culture war advocate who had become a fierce critic of Trumpism—sharply criticized the premise of the transition from neutral to negative world, noting that "[a]s someone who attended law school in the early 1990s and lived in deep blue America for most of this alleged 'neutral' period, the premise seems flawed. The world didn't feel 'neutral' to me when I was shouted down in class, or when I was told by classmates to 'die' for my pro-life views." Tim Keller also rebutted the idea that the 1990s and 2000s were a "neutral" world. "Respectfully, when we began Redeemer in 1989 we experienced great hostility. We were thrown out of facilities for our faith. We were mocked in the press. Anyone who thinks Manhattan culture was then 'neutral' toward evangelical Christianity is mistaken," he tweeted. "Redeemer's ministry and my work were forged in a 'hostile' culture, not a 'neutral' culture." After Keller's death in 2023, Christianity Today's Mike Cosper said that "The Three Worlds of Evangelicalism" was the "clearest articulation" of the idea that evangelical engagement with culture should be more confrontational and less focused on "winsomeness". However, Cosper critiqued Renn's essay as "revisionist history [that] fundamentally misunderstands and misrepresents the world prior to 2014."
French also contrasted the "positive world" concept with the social disorder he experienced growing up in the rural South, arguing that trends on teenage sexual activity, pregnancy, drug use and alcohol abuse have improved. "The doom narrative is a poor fit for an Evangelical church that is among the most wealthy and powerful Christian communities (and among the most wealthy and powerful political movements) in the entire history of the world." Wax also questioned whether black American Christians would interpret the pre-1994 era, and particularly the pre-Civil Rights movement era, as a "positive world". Others noted that Renn's framework did not apply universally outside the United States, with British-born historian and theologian Carl Trueman arguing that European confessional Protestants had lived in a negative world context for much longer. "For American evangelicals, this is a new experience, one that is disorienting and infuriating."


== Life in the Negative World ==

In 2024, Zondervan published a book-length version of Renn's argument under the title Life in the Negative World: Confronting Challenges in an Anti-Christian Culture. In the book, Renn proposed several strategies for evangelicals in a negative world environment, targeted at individuals, institutions and public engagement. His recommendations included "owned space" that would prevent churches and their members from being evicted by those hostile to their beliefs or activities, and the creation of more privately owned middle-market businesses by evangelicals that can employ members of the community and protect them from "cancel culture" in secular businesses. He also called on individuals to pursue antifragility as a way of preserving their faith and practice.
The book received mixed reviews. Life in the Negative World was named the best nonfiction book of 2024 by World magazine. Reviewing the book in First Things, Kevin DeYoung said that Renn's "advice is down to earth and full of good sense...  even for those who think the world is less anti-Christian than he does."
However, writing for the Gospel Coalition, Brian Mattson said that Renn's model is untethered to "any objective norm" and thus "liable to become a sort of self-referential solipsism. Moreover, myriad facts undermine the tidiness of this story." In Christianity Today, Daniel Bennett said he agreed with Renn more than he had in reading the original essay and that Renn does not write with an "axe to grind". Bennett also noted that Life in the Negative World responded to criticism that the "three worlds" framework neglected black Christian perspectives. According to Bennett, Renn viewed Black American Protestants as facing "discrimination and violence not because of their religion but because of their race," adding that "Renn does not discount the struggles of the Black church for most of American history, but he doesn't think that comparison to today's challenges for conservative evangelicals is exactly fair."
Mattson critiqued many of Renn's proposed strategies as "anodyne", with many "what you'd expect to find in a business leadership book at an airport bookstore. It's a letdown after the dramatic and overheated framing that we're in a new, uncharted, and unprecedented world. Few, if any, of the strategies he proposes are new, and they don't represent a shift from what Christians of earlier generations did." Mattson also critiqued the book's lack of theological depth, which DeYoung defended given Renn's status as a layperson. "With experiences and expertise different from mine, he invariably has opinions and insights I hadn't considered before," DeYoung said.


== Influence ==
According to Ruth Graham in the New York Times, Renn's negative world "is now the dominant framework for many people trying to understand their place in contemporary America." Graham described Renn as "a kind of Malcolm Gladwell of conservative Christianity, a skilled taxonomist known for distilling and naming a phenomenon that many were feeling but none had articulated." World magazine compared the book to H. Richard Niebuhr's influential mid-20th-century volume Christ and Culture as offering "Christians the opportunity to think through how they operate in different contexts and what kinds of models might be available to them as they navigate the era in which they live." In Christianity Today, Bennett said the "three worlds" framework would age well and that "Renn's positive-neutral-negative world framework is among the most thought-provoking ideas pertaining to American evangelicalism this century."
Pastor Michael Clary said Renn's framework, which has been cited in numerous evangelical sermons, was particularly appealing to evangelical clergy due to its "great explanatory power to comprehend the immense ministry pressure modern pastors face." Texas megachurch pastor Josh Howerton posted on X that his peer group of pastors was seeing the emergence of "negative world missiology", characterized by shifts from winsomeness to boldness, from avoiding controversy to confronting it, from "kinda feminine vibes to 'get the men and build the families,'" and more aggressive engagement in social media. In the negative world, Howerton said the non-religious right would become the "ripest mission field".
While Mattson saw many of Renn's proposals in Life in the Negative World as salutary, he warned that the three worlds model "has opened the door for malefactors to co-opt its themes and language in service to radical and often ugly agendas. . . . Unfortunately, some of Renn's readers seem to believe the prescription for Christians living in a negative world is to commit to whatever fight the algorithm serves up next."


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Graham,  Ruth. "He coined a term for the way many Christians feel" New York Times March 11, 2025 . The online version is titled "He Gave a Name to What Many Christians Feel: And the feeling isn’t good. Aaron Renn has gained a following by warning that the U.S. is currently a “negative world” for Christianity." online


== External links ==
2022 essay in First Things (Archived 17 January 2022 at the Wayback Machine)
Book webpage

The Judiciary of Abia State is a branch of the Abia State Government that interprets and applies the laws of Abia State. It acts as a mechanism for dispute resolution and also ensure equal justice under law.


== Structure ==
The Judiciary consists of the High Court with 23 serving Judges, Customary Court of Appeal with 4 Judges, Magistrate's courts with 56 Magistrates and Customary courts all headed by Judges and Magistrates. The Chief Judge, appointed by the Governor sequel to approval by the House of Assembly is the head of the Judiciary.


== See also ==
Abia State Government


== References ==

"Cold" is a single by Dutch three-piece girl group O'G3NE. The song was released in the Netherlands as a digital download on 13 March 2015 by 8ball TV. The song peaked at number 70 on the Dutch Singles Chart.


== Track listing ==


== Charts ==


== Release history ==


== References ==

Hares Corner is an unincorporated community in New Castle County, Delaware, United States. Hares Corner is located at the intersection of U.S. Route 13/U.S. Route 40 and Delaware Route 273, west of New Castle and immediately south of Wilmington Airport.


== History ==
The community was once a stagecoach stop and a cattle market. Hares Corner was home to the Green Tree Inn, which was demolished in 1931 to allow US 13 to be widened to a divided highway.
The Hares Corner post office operated from 1863 to 1891. According to historian Harvey Cochran Bounds, the 1890 opening of the post office at nearby Farnhurst "had more than a little to do" with the closure of the Hares Corner post office. In 1890, Hares Corner's population was 50. In the 1920s, Hares Corner was the site of fox hunting; these events were hosted by the Hares Corner Community Club.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Hares Corner, Delaware at Wikimedia Commons

Alain Porthault (15 July 1929 – 25 November 2019) was a French  sprinter and rugby player.  He competed in the men’s 4 x 100 meters relay in the 1948 Summer Olympics and in the Men’s 100 meters and the Men’s 4 x 100 meters relay at the 1952 Summer Olympics. In rugby, he played for Racing 92 from 1951 to 1953. He also earned seven caps with the France national rugby union team. He died on 25 November 2019 at the age of 90.


== Competition record ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Alain Porthault at World Athletics 
Alain Porthault at the Fédération Française d'Athlétisme (archive) (in French)
Alain Porthault at ESPNscrum (archived) 
Alain Porthault at Olympics.com 
Alain Porthault at Olympedia

All Saints' Church is a Parish church of the Scottish Episcopal Church located in the Jordanhill area of Glasgow, Scotland.


== History ==
All Saints' traces its beginnings to 1853, when Jane Charlotte Smith founded a school for miners and other labourers who lived in the Jordanhill area. Jordanhill Mansion, Jane's own home, was initially used for these gatherings, and then they were moved to a barn where Episcopalian services were held as well. In 1861, Jane founded a chapel school for children, while church services continued to be held by visiting priests. By 1892, a curate was appointed to minister in Jordanhill.
Work on the current church was begun in 1904 when the foundation stone was laid on 26 March 1904. The church was dedicated on 1 November 1904 by Bishop Ean Campbell of Glasgow.


== Works of art ==
The church was designed by James Chalmers. Chalmers chose a cruciform Neo-Norman style, and added a nave, aisles and transepts. Stugged red ashlar was used to build the church.
The interior is adorned with a number of carved oak reredos, designed by Sir Robert Lorimer. Some were painted by Phoebe Anna Traquair, one of two examples of her work in Glasgow. The church also includes a total of nine stained glass windows. The Triple Oriel east window was installed in 1911 and dedicated to the memory of Jane Charlotte Smith, which depicts Christ in Majesty.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to All Saints Episcopal Church, Jordanhill POWIS 05402 at Wikimedia Commons

Official website

Jessica Hilda Mauboy (; born 4 August 1989) is an Australian singer and actress. Born and raised in Darwin, Northern Territory, she rose to fame in 2006 on the fourth season of Australian Idol, where she was runner-up and subsequently signed a recording contract with Sony Music Australia. After releasing a live album of her Idol performances and briefly being a member of the girl group Young Divas in 2007, Mauboy released her debut studio album, Been Waiting, the following year. It included her first number-one single, "Burn", and became the second highest-selling Australian album of 2009, certified double platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA).
Her second studio album, Get 'Em Girls (2010), showcased a harder-edged R&B sound, and produced four platinum singles. Her third studio album, Beautiful (2013), a mixture of dance-oriented tracks, R&B and pop, included the top-ten hits "Pop a Bottle (Fill Me Up)", "Never Be the Same" and "Can I Get a Moment?".
Aside from her music career, Mauboy has ventured into acting, with starring roles in the films Bran Nue Dae (2010), and The Sapphires (2012), which earned her the AACTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role. She returned to acting in 2016 in the lead role in the television drama series The Secret Daughter for two seasons. It was her first major TV role and was written especially for her. She released two soundtrack albums from the show, the first of which made her the first Indigenous artist with a number-one album on the ARIA Albums Chart. Her fourth studio album, Hilda (October 2019), debuted at number one.
Mauboy is one of Australia's most successful female artists. She has achieved six top-ten albums (including two number-ones) and 16 top-twenty singles (including 9 top-ten hits). She has won two ARIA Music Awards from 25 nominations, and was ranked sixteenth on the Herald Sun's list of the "100 Greatest Australian Singers of All Time". She has collaborated with international artists such as Flo Rida, Snoop Dogg, Ludacris, Jay Sean, Pitbull and Jason Derulo. She has also toured with Beyoncé and Chris Brown, and performed at many notable events, including the Australian visits for Oprah Winfrey, Ellen DeGeneres, and US President Barack Obama. She was a guest performer at the second semi-final of the Eurovision Song Contest in 2014. She competed for Australia at the Eurovision Song Contest 2018 and reached 20th place. From 2021 to 2023, she was featured as a coach on The Voice Australia.
In 2025, Mauboy was inducted into the National Indigenous Music Awards Hall of Fame.


== Early life and education ==
Jessica Hilda Mauboy was born on 4 August 1989 and raised in Darwin, Northern Territory. Her father, Ferdy, is an Indonesian-born electrician from West Timor. Her mother, Therese, is an Aboriginal Australian woman of the Kuku Yalanji people, whose traditional lands are the rainforest regions of Far North Queensland. Mauboy has three older sisters, Sandra, Jenny and Catherine; and a younger sister, Sophia. She discovered later in life that her first cousin once removed on her mother's side is Olympic gold medalist Cathy Freeman. From an early age, she was involved in the local church choir with her grandmother Harriett. Her home was described as the "noisiest house on the block", with her mother often singing, her father playing guitar and the rest of the family displaying their passion for music.
She attended Wulagi Primary School and Sanderson High School in Darwin. She dropped out of school in year 11 to pursue her passion for music.
At age fourteen, Mauboy's talents were exposed through the Telstra Road to Tamworth competition at the 2004 Tamworth Country Music Festival in Tamworth, New South Wales. As the first winner of the competition, she travelled to Sydney to perform, in which The Bushwackers were her backing vocalists, who became Mauboy's mentees in The Voice of Australia in 2023. She also scored a recording deal with Sony Music Australia. She released a country-inspired rendition of the Cyndi Lauper hit "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun". A video of the song was produced and released, but the song was unsuccessful and Mauboy returned to Darwin.


== Music career ==


=== 2006: Australian Idol ===

In 2006, Mauboy auditioned for the fourth season of Australian Idol in Alice Springs, Northern Territory, singing Whitney Houston's "I Have Nothing". Her audition impressed all three judges, and she progressed to the semi-finals, then to the top twelve. The media cited her previous Sony contract as grounds for dismissal, but since it had expired, the producers refused to remove her from the show. In the final eleven week, following her rendition of Kelly Clarkson's "Walk Away", judge Kyle Sandilands commented on Mauboy's weight, and said that if she wanted to succeed in the music industry, she should "lose the jelly belly". Mauboy appeared stunned by the comment. In an interview with Who magazine's Alicia Neil, two years after the comment, Mauboy said, "I kind of took it as a joke... I look back on it as a positive thing–it made me a stronger person."
In the final ten-week, Mauboy received the first touchdown of the season from judge Mark Holden for her rendition of Christina Aguilera's hit "Beautiful". During the final nine-week, she had a sore throat that resulted in a mediocre rendition of Phil Collins' "Another Day in Paradise" and near-elimination, landing her in the bottom three. She never landed in the bottom three again, and ended up progressing to the final show with Damien Leith. At the grand finale on 27 November at the Sydney Opera House, Mauboy was voted runner-up to Leith. In December 2006, she signed a recording contract with Sony Music Australia, two weeks after Idol ended.


=== 2007–2009: The Journey, Young Divas and Been Waiting ===
Mauboy released her debut live album The Journey on 24 February 2007, which contained two discs. Disc one contained re-recorded covers of the selected songs Mauboy performed as part of the top twelve on Australian Idol, while disc two included a DVD of her performances on the series. The Journey debuted at number four on the ARIA Albums Chart and was certified gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association for shipments of 35,000 units. In September 2007, Mauboy joined as the new member of the girl group Young Divas, replacing one of the group's original members, Ricki-Lee Coulter, who had left in June to resume her solo career. Their second studio album New Attitude was released on 24 November 2007, and debuted at number 10 and was certified gold. The album was preceded by the lead single "Turn Me Loose", which peaked at number 15 on the ARIA Singles Chart. In March 2008, Mauboy signed on to the Australian Government In2Oz program, designed to promote closer ties with Indonesia. As a part of the program, she travelled to Indonesia for a three-day trip performing around the country, including an appearance on Indonesian Idol. It was during this time that Mauboy had begun to work on her first solo studio album. In August 2008, Mauboy announced that after a year with the Young Divas, she had decided to quit to concentrate on her solo career. Founding member Paulini had also decided to depart, leaving Kate DeAraugo and Emily Williams as the only remaining members. However, both DeAraugo and Williams resumed their solo careers, and the group officially disbanded.

Mauboy's debut studio album Been Waiting was released on 22 November 2008; it peaked at number 11 and was certified double platinum for shipments of 140,000 units. Mauboy co-wrote eleven of the album's songs, which were produced by Audius Mtawarira, Israel Cruz, Jonas Jeberg, Cutfather, Adam Reily, Fingaz and Kwamé. The album received positive reviews from critics. Davey Boy of Sputnikmusic gave the album three out of five stars and wrote that it was an "impressive debut which suggests that there could indeed be quality music to look forward to in the future, as she matures and gains experience". The lead single "Running Back", featuring American rapper Flo Rida, peaked at number three and was certified double platinum. The second single, "Burn", became Mauboy's first number-one single, and was certified platinum. It also reached number 92 on the Japan Hot 100 and became Mauboy's first single to chart internationally. The album's third single and title track peaked at number 12 and was certified gold. The following singles, "Because" and "Up/Down", peaked at numbers nine and 11, respectively, and both were certified gold.
In February 2009, Mauboy signed with UK record label Ministry of Sound. Been Waiting was released in Japan on 22 April 2009, and reached number 138 on the Japanese Albums Chart. At the 2009 Deadly Awards, Mauboy won three awards in the categories of Female Artist of the Year, Album of the Year for Been Waiting, and Single Release of the Year for "Burn". Along with Flo Rida, Mauboy served as a support act for Beyoncé on the Australian leg of her I Am... World Tour in September 2009. At the 2009 ARIA Music Awards, Mauboy earned seven nominations for Been Waiting and its singles; she was nominated for Highest Selling Album, Best Pop Release, Breakthrough Artist Album, Best Female Artist, Breakthrough Artist Single for "Running Back", and Highest Selling Single for "Running Back" and "Burn". Eventually, Mauboy won Highest Selling Single for "Running Back".


=== 2010–2012: Get 'Em Girls and The Sapphires soundtrack ===
In January 2010, Mauboy signed to Universal Music for an exclusive worldwide long-term publishing agreement. In May 2010, Mauboy collaborated with four other international artists representing their continents—Sean Kingston representing America, Jody Williams representing Africa, Tabitha Nauser (Asia), Steve Appleton (Europe), with Mauboy representing Oceania—on the theme song for the 2010 Summer Youth Olympics titled "Everyone". Mauboy, Williams, Nauser and Appleton performed "Everyone" at the opening of the Youth Olympics held in Singapore on 14 August 2010. Kingston was unable to attend the performance, due to a passport mix-up. Mauboy released her second studio album Get 'Em Girls on 5 November 2010; it debuted at number six and was certified gold. She had travelled to the United States in February of that year to work on the album in Los Angeles, New York City, and Atlanta with American songwriters and producers, most of whom she had not worked with previously. Mauboy co-wrote eight of the album's songs. Get 'Em Girls received mixed reviews from critics. Majhid Heath of ABC Online Indigenous gave the album two-and-a-half out of five stars, writing that it's a "non-cohesive mess of similar sounding, auto-tuned ravaged pop/R&B that diminishes the talent of this brilliant young songstress".

The album's title track, featuring American rapper Snoop Dogg, peaked at number 19. Mauboy performed "Get 'Em Girls" at the 2010 Nickelodeon Australian Kids' Choice Awards, where she co-hosted the award ceremony with Liam Hemsworth and Jerry Trainor, and won the award for Fave Aussie Muso. The following singles, "Saturday Night" featuring American rapper Ludacris and "What Happened to Us" featuring English singer Jay Sean, peaked at numbers seven and 14, respectively. The former single was certified double platinum while the latter was only certified platinum. At the 2010 Australian of the Year Awards, Mauboy received her first nomination for Young Australian of the Year. On 10 December 2010, she performed in front of an audience of 92,000 at the Federation Square in Melbourne, ahead of Oprah Winfrey's visit to the place. Mauboy's performance was shown in the first of the four Australian specials of The Oprah Winfrey Show on 18 January 2011. In April 2011, she served as a support act for Chris Brown's Australian leg of his F.A.M.E. Tour.
Get 'Em Girls was re-released as a deluxe edition on 12 August 2011, which included the singles "Inescapable" and "Galaxy" featuring Stan Walker. The former single peaked at number four and was certified double platinum, while the latter peaked at number 13 and was certified platinum. "Galaxy" also reached number 36 on the New Zealand Singles Chart and became Mauboy's first single to chart in that country. On 17 November 2011, Mauboy performed for the Australian troops at RAAF Base Darwin, ahead of US President Barack Obama's visit to the place. In January 2012, Mauboy and Walker embarked on their Galaxy Tour across Australia, which served as her first headlining tour. Mauboy recorded 15 songs for The Sapphires' soundtrack album, which was released on 27 July 2012. The album debuted at number one and was certified platinum. Mauboy released "Gotcha" as the album's lead single, which peaked at number 43 and was certified gold. At the 2012 ARIA Music Awards, she was nominated for Best Female Artist, Best Pop Release for "Gotcha", and Song of the Year for "Galaxy".


=== 2013–2014: Beautiful, Eurovision and iTunes Session EP ===

Mauboy received two nominations at the 2013 Australian of the Year Awards for Young Australian of the Year and Northern Territory Young Australian of the Year; she won the latter award. In March 2013, she participated in a singing quiz segment for Ellen DeGeneres' two Australian shows in Sydney and Melbourne. In September 2013, she performed at the 65th Primetime Emmy Awards Governors Ball in Los Angeles. Mauboy's third studio album Beautiful was released on 4 October 2013; it debuted at number three and was certified platinum. The lead single "To the End of the Earth" peaked at number 21 and was certified gold, while the second single "Pop a Bottle (Fill Me Up)" debuted at number two and was certified platinum. "Pop a Bottle (Fill Me Up)" also reached number 33 in New Zealand and became Mauboy's third single to chart internationally. The following singles, "Beautiful" and "Never Be the Same", peaked at numbers 46 and six, respectively, with the latter single being certified platinum.

At the 2013 NRL Grand Final on 6 October 2013, Mauboy performed the Australian national anthem, "Livin' la Vida Loca", with Ricky Martin, and a medley of "Something's Got a Hold on Me" and "Pop a Bottle (Fill Me Up)". At the 2013 ARIA Music Awards, Mauboy won Best Female Artist for "To the End of the Earth". She embarked on the To the End of the Earth Tour, her second headlining tour, from November 2013 to January 2014. To coincide with the 2014 Australia Day celebrations, Mauboy along with Dami Im, Justice Crew, Nathaniel Willemse, Samantha Jade and Taylor Henderson released a cover of "I Am Australian" which peaked at number 51. She appeared in an episode of Sesame Street on 20 March 2014, singing "Count the Kangaroos" in a clip which was filmed in Alice Springs with children from Yipirinya State Primary School. Mauboy was chosen by SBS to perform at the Eurovision Song Contest 2014, in recognition of Australia's love affair with the annual event. She performed the single "Sea of Flags" during the second semi-final in Denmark. SBS screened the documentary, Jessica Mauboy's Road to Eurovision on 10 May 2014 before their coverage of the second semi-final.
Mauboy's first extended play iTunes Session was released on 18 July 2014, and debuted at number 25. On 3 August 2014, she performed during the 2014 Commonwealth Games Flag Handover Ceremony at Hampden Park Stadium in Glasgow, Scotland, to mark the official handover of the Commonwealth Games from Glasgow to the Gold Coast in 2018. Beautiful was re-released as a platinum edition on 21 November 2014, which included the singles "Can I Get a Moment?" and "The Day Before I Met You". The former single debuted at number five and was certified platinum. Mauboy received three nominations at the 2014 ARIA Music Awards, including Album of the Year and Best Female Artist for Beautiful, and Best Video for "Never Be the Same".


=== 2015–2018: The Secret Daughter soundtracks and Eurovision ===
Mauboy performed at the ICC Cricket World Cup opening ceremony held on 12 February 2015 at the Sidney Myer Music Bowl in Melbourne. On 3 May 2015, she appeared on the US Today show in a segment that was filmed live at the Sydney Opera House with host Savannah Guthrie. In an interview with the Australian Associated Press that same month, Mauboy revealed that she had already begun writing songs for her upcoming fourth studio album. She said, "This time around with the album I would like to...just take risks in terms of the sound and identifying who I am as a woman. It's more of a rhythmic pop so it's not going to be extreme pop. It's going to be a little bit more soul." "This Ain't Love", released in September 2015, was originally intended to be the album's lead single; it peaked at number five and was certified gold. Mauboy along with The Veronicas and Tina Arena performed Arena's 1994 single "Chains" at the 2015 ARIA Music Awards, where Arena was inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame. Their version was released as a single following the performance, and peaked at number 14.
In March 2016, Mauboy released the single "Where I'll Stay", which was used to promote the Seven Network's coverage of the 2016 Rio Olympics. Plans for Mauboy's upcoming fourth studio album were put on hold when she released her first individual soundtrack album, The Secret Daughter: Songs from the Original TV Series, on 14 October 2016. The album featured music used in the television series of the same name, in which Mauboy plays the lead role of Billie Carter. The album included five original songs and twelve cover versions of songs by Cold Chisel, Crowded House, The Clash, Roxette, Ed Sheeran and Alex Lloyd, among others. One of the original tracks, "Risk It", was released as the lead single from the soundtrack album. The Secret Daughter: Songs from the Original TV Series became Mauboy's first individual number-one album and also made her the first Indigenous artist to reach number one on the ARIA Albums Chart. Mauboy embarked on her third headlining tour, All the Hits Live – The Australian Tour, in March and April 2017, where she performed songs from the last 10 years of her career.
Mauboy's second individual soundtrack album, The Secret Daughter Season Two: Songs from the Original 7 Series, was released on 6 October 2017. The album included two original songs and sixteen covers of songs by The Church, Crowded House, Thirsty Merc, Paul Kelly, Lighthouse Family and Aretha Franklin, among others. Original track "Fallin'" was released as the album's lead single; it peaked at number 11, became Mauboy's sixteenth top-twenty hit, and was certified platinum. The Secret Daughter Season Two: Songs from the Original 7 Series debuted at number two and became Mauboy's fifth top-ten album. She received six nominations at the 2017 ARIA Music Awards, including Best Female Artist and Best Original Soundtrack, Cast or Show Album for The Secret Daughter, Best Australian Live Act, and Song of the Year, Best Pop Release and Best Video for "Fallin'".
On 11 December 2017, Mauboy was announced as the Australian representative for the Eurovision Song Contest 2018 in Portugal; becoming the fourth artist to compete for Australia. In May 2018, Mauboy performed the song "We Got Love" which finished in 20th position in the final.


=== 2019–2020: Hilda and Sony depart ===
On 11 April 2019, Mauboy released her new single "Sunday" from her upcoming fourth studio album, Hilda (October 2019). A video for the song was released on 30 April 2019, directed by Nick Waterman and produced by Jo Austin. The album's second single "Little Things" was released on 21 June along with the pre-order for the album. Hilda debuted at number one on the ARIA Albums Chart. In October 2019 "Little Things" was certified as an ARIA platinum single. The same month,
"Selfish" impacted Australian radio as the third official single from Hilda.
In December 2020, Mauboy left Sony after fourteen years and signed a new record deal with Warner Music Australia, with new music to be released in 2021.


=== 2021–2024: Warner Music and Yours Forever ===
On 12 November 2021, Mauboy released "Glow", the first release on Warner Music Australia. On 27 April 2022, she announced the release of her second single "Automatic", stating "It's happening! My brand new single AUTOMATIC is out May 8th!". The music video for the track was also released on 8 May 2022, on her YouTube channel.
On 24 February 2023, Mauboy performed "Right Here Right Now" at Sydney World Pride 2023. It was released on 17 March 2023.
On 11 August 2023, Mauboy released "Give You Love" featuring Jason Derulo, as the lead single from her fifth studio album Yours Forever, released in February 2024. The album debuted at number 10 on the ARIA Charts.


=== 2025: Jamally and NIMA Hall of Fame ===
On 1 August 2025, Mauboy announced she had split from Warner and had established an independent label called Jamally. Her first single on this was released the same day titled "While I Got Time", a song synced on Network Seven's Home and Away, soundtracking the farewell of Lynne McGranger's character Irene Roberts.
The same month, Mauboy was inducted into the National Indigenous Music Awards Hall of Fame.


== Personal life ==
In late 2008, Mauboy moved from Darwin to Sydney, ahead of the release of her debut studio album Been Waiting. In January 2009, she began a long-distance relationship with Themeli "Magoo" Magripilis, a soccer player and council worker of Greek descent, who was born and raised in Darwin. Magripilis played for the Darwin soccer league's club Hellenic Athletic, the same club that Mauboy's younger sister Sophia played for. After seven years of long distance dating, Magripilis relocated from Darwin to Sydney in September 2016 and moved in with Mauboy. The couple wed in Darwin on 9 July 2022. Mauboy's first child was born in January 2025. When she is not working, Mauboy returns to Darwin to spend time with her family. She is an avid fan of NRL side North Queensland Cowboys.


== Artistry ==


=== Music and songwriting ===
Mauboy's music is generally R&B and pop, but she also incorporates dance, funk, soul and hip hop into some of her songs. Mauboy's debut studio album Been Waiting (2008) was described as "a blend of electro beats, heartfelt pop tunes and R&B bass lines". Most of the themes on the album dealt with boys, love and break-ups, everyday life, family issues, and friendship. Alasdair Duncan from Rave magazine described Mauboy's second studio album Get 'Em Girls (2010) as "a more hard-edged take on R&B and pop than her debut, pumped full of hip hop beats, jagged synths and futuristic vocal effects". Mauboy said that she wanted each song on the album to talk about a "woman's needs", and that the album's theme was "very much about the empowerment of women and the domination of women". Kylie Northover of The Sydney Morning Herald noted that Mauboy's third studio album Beautiful (2013) featured "a mix of more dance-oriented tunes and her usual R&B sound".
Mauboy has also incorporated her Aboriginal heritage into her music, including songs on the soundtrack album for The Sapphires and in the single "Sea of Flags". Aside from her vocals work, Mauboy can also play the piano and has co-written some of her material. She co-wrote eleven songs on her first studio album, nine on her second studio album, and fourteen on her third studio album. In 2010, Mauboy was nominated for Breakthrough Songwriter of the Year at the APRA Awards. Mauboy stated in an interview that while working with American producer Harvey Mason, Jr., they came up with the melodies and hooks for the songs "Fight for You" and "Here for Me" on the album Get 'Em Girls. She also experimented with an operatic-type voice on her song "Scariest Part".


=== Influences ===
Mauboy grew up listening to country singers Patsy Cline, Dolly Parton and Slim Dusty; she credits country music as her first love of music, saying the genre "is who I really, really am deeply". Mauboy also grew up listening to hip hop rappers Tupac Shakur, Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg. Mauboy cites Mariah Carey as her main influence and inspiration, stating that she has "drawn a lot of inspiration from watching and listening to her live performances". She grew up listening to many of Carey's songs and was inspired by her vocal style and songwriting, "I loved 'Dreamlover' and 'Fantasy' – and picked up loads of tips from her style of singing. She taught me that the lyrics you write have to come from personal experiences – I really felt her music. Now I aspire to writing honest lyrics with real feelings that people can relate to." Mauboy also names Whitney Houston as another influence, stating that she looks up to her and Carey "for their outstanding vocal performances". Her other musical influences are John Farnham and Beyoncé. Mauboy is also inspired by fellow Indigenous Australian women such as Olympic gold medalist Cathy Freeman and actress Deborah Mailman.


=== Public image ===
Mauboy is known for her good girl image and is considered a role model to young girls and Indigenous communities in Australia. Ed Gibbs of The Sydney Morning Herald described her as a "wholesome girl-next-door", while Holly Richards of New Idea noted that she "is renowned for her squeaky-clean image and family values". Genevieve Rosen of The Vine wrote that Mauboy's "flawless public image is no farce. Humble, genuinely engaging and passionate about public service, Mauboy, put simply, is really nice." Anna Byrne of the Herald Sun observed, "It's clear this endearing unpretentiousness is not a fame facade. In every respect, the pint-sized pop star embodies one of the most elusive qualities of stardom: relatability. It's this genuineness that has seen her star ascend to where she actually is." Fashion has influenced Mauboy's music career and image. Byrne noted that her "fashion choices have mirrored her rise in fame, with her style evolving from shy schoolgirl to confident diva, set to steal the sartorial spotlight". Mauboy cites Jennifer Lopez as her style icon. She has worn dresses designed by Dolce & Gabbana, J'Aton, Steven Khalil and Toni Matičevski, and has appeared on the covers of fashion magazines in Australia, including Elle, InStyle, and Marie Claire. She has also appeared on the cover of Who magazine's Sexiest People issue twice; first in 2012 and again in 2016.

Mauboy's weight has been the subject of media interest, ever since her rise to fame on Australian Idol when judge Kyle Sandilands publicly told her to "lose the jelly belly". Mauboy told Women's Health magazine that she was proud of her curvy figure, saying "having curves is one of my favourite things". In 2014, she received media attention for her weight loss transformation from a size 12 to 8. Mauboy has an alter ego named J Malley, who she described as her "fearless side" and "sort of like Beyoncé's Sasha Fierce". Mauboy is often referred to as Australia's answer to Beyoncé. However, she does not agree with the comparisons, saying "I totally disagree with that one. I've...watched her documentary [Life Is But a Dream] and was just blown away by how magnificent she really is and it's so inspiring for me. I just think she's fantastic and I'm completely nowhere near where she is, but I aspire to that."
With the release of Mauboy's second studio album Get 'Em Girls, some critics felt that she was becoming an "R&B sexpot". Both the album and its title track also received negative reviews from critics. The music video for the title track was heavily criticised by fans who felt that Mauboy had become too sexy and moved away from her good girl image. Speaking of Mauboy's image for R&B music, Fairfax Media journalist Bernard Zuel said: "It's a problem, matching the personality to a formula. The formula with young women singing modern R&B is that they have to be out there sexually, thrusting physically and vocally. But that's just not who she is." Following the release of her single "Gotcha" in 2012, Miranda Cashin of Sunshine Coast Daily noted that it was "a return to the Mauboy [we knew] before the infamous 2010 sexed-up fist-pumping album, Get 'Em Girls".


== Other ventures ==


=== Acting career ===

In January 2010, Mauboy made her acting debut in the film adaptation of the 1990 Aboriginal musical Bran Nue Dae. The film was directed by Rachel Perkins and also starred Ernie Dingo, Geoffrey Rush, Missy Higgins, and Deborah Mailman. In the film, Mauboy played the role of Rosie, a local church singer who has a love interest for a school boy named Willie (played by Rocky McKenzie). Her performance in the film earned her a nomination for Female Actress of the Year at the 2010 Deadly Awards. In November 2010, Mauboy made a guest appearance in the final episode of the mini-series Underbelly: Razor, and played the role of a nightclub singer named Gloria Starr.
In 2012, Mauboy had a lead role in The Sapphires, a film based on the stage show of the same name. It was directed by Wayne Blair and also starred Deborah Mailman, Shari Sebbens, and Miranda Tapsell. Mauboy played the role of Julie McCrae, one of the four Indigenous Australian women who travel to Vietnam to sing for the American troops. Mauboy and the cast attended the film's premiere at the 65th Annual Cannes Film Festival in Cannes, France, on 20 May 2012. Upon its release in the US, Mauboy appeared on The Ellen DeGeneres Show on 18 April 2013. Her performance in The Sapphires earned her the AACTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role and the Australian Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress. In September 2013, Mauboy made a guest appearance as herself in the third and final season of the teen drama Dance Academy. In 2016, Mauboy was cast in the lead role of the television drama series The Secret Daughter, which premiered on the Seven Network on 3 October. It was Mauboy's first major TV role and was written especially for her. She portrayed the role of Billie Carter, a part-time country pub singer whose life changes after coming in contact with a rich hotelier. The role earned Mauboy her first Logie Award nomination for Best Actress, and the show was renewed for a second and final season in 2017. Mauboy guest starred in the 2016 season finale of Home and Away as herself, where she performed at the Summer Bay Groove Festival. In 2024, she starred in the Stan Australia film Windcatcher.


=== Endorsements ===
In 2007, Mauboy appeared in advertisements for the shampoo product, Head & Shoulders. In April 2009, she teamed up with Bloom Cosmetics to create two designer collection nail polishes, which included shades of sangria red and metallic green. Mauboy became the new face of the video game Nintendogs + Cats 3DS in October 2010, and joined forces with RSPCA and Nintendo to help promote the game. She teamed up with clothing label KuKu in December 2010 to launch her five-dress fashion range, which were made available to buy at Myer stores across Australia. In February 2013, Mauboy was announced as the ambassador for the National Rugby League (NRL) and featured in their television advertising campaign singing her cover version of Etta James' "Something's Got a Hold on Me", the theme song for the 2013 NRL season. The following month, Mauboy became the ambassador of the 2013 Woolworths Earn & Learn program, which enables primary and secondary schools in Australia as well as early learning centres to earn educational resources through the school community shopping at Woolworths. She appeared in two television commercials for the program, featuring students from Wulagi Primary School in Darwin. In 2014, Mauboy became the ambassador for the health and wellness company Swisse and appeared in a television commercial for Telstra's commitment to its customers campaign. In May 2015, she became the new face for Target Australia's Womenswear and represented the brand for a year. Mauboy's first fragrance, Be Beautiful, was released on 30 October 2015. The fragrance was developed by Mauboy in partnership with BrandPoint and was inspired by her hometown of Darwin. In February 2017, Mauboy became the ambassador for Foxtel's new Fox League channel dedicated to screening rugby league, and appeared in a television commercial to help launch the channel.


=== Philanthropy ===

Throughout her career, Mauboy has supported various charities in Australia. She is an ambassador for the Sony Foundation, which raises funds for youth-related causes. As an ambassador for the Foundation, Mauboy has made several hospital visits and performed at many of their annual fundraising events such as Wharf4Ward, which raises funds to build specialised youth cancer centres across Australia. In April 2009, sales from the nail polish bottles Mauboy created with Bloom Cosmetics were donated to Children's Hospital Foundations Australia to support the research into childhood illness. Mauboy has performed at several other fundraising events including charity balls, charity dinners, Christmas carols events, and telethons. For many years, Mauboy has performed at the annual Channel Seven Perth Telethon. In December 2011, she performed free acoustic concerts across Australia as part of the Indian Pacific Outback Christmas train journey, an annual fund-raiser for the Royal Flying Doctor Service. On 14 December 2012, she performed a free pop up show at Federation Square in Melbourne, as part of the Optus Carols for a Cause event, which raised funds for Kids Helpline and The Smith Family. Mauboy headlined the Come Together charity concert in Ulverstone, Tasmania on 19 May 2013, in aid of two boys who were burnt in an explosion. All proceeds from the concert went into a trust fund for the boys' ongoing treatment.
Mauboy has also contributed to Indigenous organisations aimed at improving children's education. In 2009, she became a spokesperson for the Indigenous Literacy Project (ILP), which aims to provide "books and learning materials to schools, libraries and women's centres in remote areas". As spokesperson for the charity, Mauboy visited schools across Australia and talked to students about the importance of education. In 2011, she worked with the Yalari organisation "that offers children from regional, rural and remote communities and towns across Australia the opportunity to get a first-class secondary education". In 2013, Mauboy was appointed as the ambassador of the independent Aboriginal Yipirinya School in Alice Springs. Along with making several visits to the school, Mauboy has helped promote the school and assist with its fundraisings. In August 2015, she became an ambassador for the Indigenous Literacy Foundation, which raises support and awareness of literacy in remote indigenous communities. Her songs have been included on charity compilation albums such as Bushfire Aid: Artists for the Bushfire Appeal (2009), Spirit of Christmas (2009), and Flood Relief – Artists for the Flood Appeal (2011). Mauboy along with Guy Sebastian, Sheppard, Jon Stevens, Shannon Noll and Megan Washington were featured on Lee Kernaghan's 2015 charity single "Spirit of the Anzacs", which raised funds for Legacy and Soldier On.


=== Television ===
In December 2020, Mauboy was announced to have joined the judging panel of The Voice Australia for its tenth season to replace Boy George.


== Discography ==

Been Waiting (2008)
Get 'Em Girls (2010)
Beautiful (2013)
Hilda (2019)
Yours Forever (2024)


== Filmography ==


=== Film appearances ===


=== Television appearances ===


=== Music videos and other videography ===


== Tours ==
Headlining

Galaxy Tour (with Stan Walker) (2012)
To the End of the Earth Tour (2013–14)
All the Hits Live – The Australian Tour (2017)
The Boss Lady Tour (2022)
Yours Forever Tour (2024)
Supporting act

Beyoncé's I Am... World Tour: Australian leg (2009)
Chris Brown's F.A.M.E. Tour: Australian leg (2011)


== See also ==
List of awards and nominations received by Jessica Mauboy


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website 
Jessica Mauboy at IMDb

Karalla dussumieri, Dussumier's ponyfish, is a species of marine ray-finned fish, a ponyfish from the family Leiognathidae. It is found in the Indo-Pacific region where it occurs from Madagascar and Réunion east to the Philippines. It is found in schools over substrates consisting of coral sand in coastal waters, although it will also enters estuaries. It feeds on small crustaceans, polychaetes, bivalves, foraminiferans, gastropods and nematodes. This species was first formally described as Equula dussumieri in 1835 by Achille Valenciennes with the type locality given as the Coromandel coast. The specific name honours the French voyager and merchant Jean-Jacques Dussumier (1792-1883), who collected the type.


== References ==

Victim of Love may refer to:


== Music ==
Victim of Love (Elton John album), 1979, or the title song
Victim of Love (Charles Bradley album), 2013
Victim of Love (Dee Dee Bridgewater album), 1989
"Victim of Love" (Erasure song), 1987
"Victim of Love" (The Cars song), 1982
"Victim of Love" (Eagles song), 1977
"Victim of Love", a song by Sweet Sensation from Take It While It's Hot album
"Victim of Love", a song by Bryan Adams from Into the Fire
"Victim of Love", a song by Cash Cash from Love or Lust


== Other media ==
Victim of Love (1923 film), a silent German film
Victim of Love (1991 film), a psychological thriller starring Pierce Brosnan
Victim of Love: The Shannon Mohr Story, a 1993 TV movie featuring Andrea Parker
Victim of Love (novel), a 1982 novel by Dyan Sheldon


== See also ==
"Victims of Love", a song by Joe Lamont from Secrets You Keep
"Victims of Love", a song by Good Charlotte from Good Morning Revival

Clarencefield is a small village in Ruthwell Parish between Dumfries and Annan in Dumfries and Galloway, Scotland. It was once served by Ruthwell railway station.


== History ==
This typical estate village was built to service nearby Comlongon Castle and to provide accommodation for its employees and their families. The castle was once held by the Earls of Mansfield and is now a hotel.
A saw mill was located nearby at Hope Cottages, powered via a mill pond using water from the Brow or Raffles Burn. The McFarlan Memorial Hall provides various facilities for the local community.


== Association with Robert Burns ==

In July 1796, probably suffering from subacute bacterial endocarditis the poet Robert Burns's medical friends Dr William Maxwell and Dr Alexander Brown suggested that he should go to Brow where was prescribed drinking the water of the mineral well, sea bathing, riding and the country air. He stayed for three weeks, lodging in the inn. John Burney of the inn at Clarencefield was the son-in-law of the landlord at Brow and Burns was advised to make his way to the village to get some port wine that had been prescribed as part of his treatment.
Burns arrived, placed the empty bottle on the counter and ordered the port wine, however he had no money and made to give Burney his personal seal that carried his 'armorial device' that he was so proud of as security until he could pay with coin. He had informed the landlord that "the muckle deil had got into his pouch and was its only occupant". The landlady encouraged her husband to give Burns the medicinal wine without money or pledge. The inn is said to have been located in the farm on the route from Brow.


== See also ==

Brow
Ruthwell
Ruthwell railway station


== References ==
Notes

Sources
Dougall, Charles S. (1911). The Burns Country. London: A & C Black.
MacKay, James A. (1988). Burns-Lore of Dumfries and Galloway. Ayr : Alloway Publishing. ISBN 0-907526-36-5.
Mackay, James A. (2004). Burns. A Biography of Robert Burns. Darvel : Alloway Publishing. ISBN 0-907526-85-3.


== External links ==

McFarlan Memorial Hall
Google map
Tourist information Archived 16 January 2017 at the Wayback Machine
Comlongon Castle

Alafia landolphioides is a plant in the family Apocynaceae. It grows as a liana up to 20 m (70 ft) long, with a stem diameter of up to 2.5 cm (1 in). Its fragrant flowers feature a white corolla, dark red at the throat. The fruit is dark brown with paired cylindrical follicles, each up to 45 cm (18 in) in diameter.
Its habitat is forest and savanna, from sea level to 1,000 m (3,300 ft) altitude. Local medicinal uses include as a treatment for rheumatism.  The plant has been used as arrow poison. Alafia landolphioides grows natively in countries from Senegal in the west through West Africa to the Democratic Republic of the Congo.


== References ==

Several heritage trails have been designed in Hong Kong:
Trails designed by the Antiquities and Monuments Office of the Leisure and Cultural Services Department:

Ping Shan Heritage Trail, in Yuen Long District, opened on 12 December 1993
Lung Yeuk Tau Heritage Trail
Central and Western Heritage Trail
Other trails include

Dr Sun Yat-sen Historical Trail, in Central and Western District.
Hong Kong Boulder Trackways
St Stephen's College Heritage Trail
Tai Tam Waterworks Heritage Trail
Wan Chai Heritage Trail, launched on 27 September 2009
Military history trails
Pinewood Battery Heritage Trail, within the Lung Fu Shan Country Park
Shing Mun War Relics Trail
Wong Nai Chung Gap Trail, opened in 2006
Mount Davis Heritage Trail, covering the western military sector of HK


== See also ==

List of hiking trails in Hong Kong
List of buildings and structures in Hong Kong
Heritage conservation in Hong Kong
Declared monuments of Hong Kong
List of Grade I historic buildings in Hong Kong
List of Grade II historic buildings in Hong Kong
List of Grade III historic buildings in Hong Kong
History of Hong Kong


== References ==


== External links ==

Heritage Trails on the Antiquities and Monuments Office website
Shing Mun War Relics Trail Archived 2019-10-23 at the Wayback Machine
Hong Kong Boulder Trackways' Survey
Cheung, Sidney C. H. (1999). "The Meanings of a Heritage Trail in Hong Kong". Annals of Tourism Research. 26 (3). Elsevier Science: 570–588. doi:10.1016/s0160-7383(99)00006-7. ISSN 0160-7383. Retrieved 20 September 2014.

Sarau can mean:

Sarau (event), a cultural, music, or sporting event of Portuguese/Brazilian origin
Groß Sarau, municipality in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany
See also:

Upper Moutere, New Zealand, originally called Sarau
Jeff Sarau, Australian rules footballer
Gheorghe Sarău, Romanian linguist

Abraham van der Hulst (Amsterdam, 11 April 1619 – 12 June 1666) was a Dutch admiral in the 17th century.
Van der Hulst was appointed extraordinary captain in 1650. He served as captain of Groningen in the First Anglo-Dutch War, being promoted to full captain in 1653, becoming flag captain of Vice-Admiral Witte de With on Vrijheid, fighting in the Battle of the Gabbard and the Battle of Scheveningen.
In 1654 he had convoy duty in the Mediterranean. In 1656, in the Dutch-Portuguese War, he took two merchantmen during the blockade of Portugal. In 1658 he was flag captain of Vice-Admiral Michiel de Ruyter on Hilversum while again blockading Portugal. In 1661 he served in De Ruyter's fleet in the Mediterranean. When the Second Anglo-Dutch War threatened he was on 29 January appointed temporary Rear-Admiral with the Admiralty of Amsterdam. In the Battle of Lowestoft in 1665 he was second in command in the squadron of Lieutenant-Admiral Jacob van Wassenaer Obdam, taking over command of this unit when the latter was killed because his flagship exploded. The battle was a heavy defeat for the Dutch and those captains fighting bitterly to cover the retreat of the fleet were seen as heroes, among them Van der Hulst who was promoted on 25 July to Vice-Admiral.
In the Four Days' Battle he was second in command in the squadron of Lieutenant-Admiral Cornelis Tromp. On the second day due to a communication mistake Tromp failed to follow the turn of the main body of the Dutch fleet into the back of the English fleet. As a result, his squadron became isolated and attacked by a superior English force. Before De Ruyter could break the English line and save Tromp's force, several ships had taken a horrible pounding, among them Spiegel, Van der Hulst's flagship. He himself was mortally wounded by a musket ball in the breast. Spiegel was abandoned but later salvaged.
Van der Hulst was buried in the Oude Kerk in Amsterdam; a marble grave memorial was later erected, a work of Artus de With.
His name was later given to a Karel Doorman-class frigate in 1993, HNLMS Abraham van der Hulst.


== References ==

National Rail (NR) is the trading name licensed for use by the Rail Delivery Group, a group representing passenger train operating companies (TOCs) of England, Scotland, and Wales, operating on the rail system of Great Britain.
The British Railways Board ran passenger services using the brand name British Rail from 1965 until 1997, when it was privatised and services were transferred to private train operating companies. Rail transport in Northern Ireland operates under a different system. 
National Rail's main activities are ticketing and the operation of the National Rail website (previously National Rail Enquiries) and mobile app. Most tickets are inter-available between the services of all operators. The website and app provide live service timings, and a journey planner which provides the times and fares for a given journey; after selecting a fare, the purchase is completed at the relevant train operating company's website or app.


== National Rail and Network Rail ==

National Rail should not be confused with Network Rail. National Rail is a brand used to promote passenger railway services, and providing some harmonisation for passengers in ticketing, while Network Rail is the organisation which owns and manages most of the fixed assets of the railway network, including tracks, stations and signals. 
The two generally coincide where passenger services are run. Most major Network Rail lines also carry freight traffic and some lines are freight-only. There are some scheduled passenger services on privately managed, non-Network Rail lines, for example Chiltern Railways which runs on both Network Rail track and tracks owned by London Underground. Although London Underground uses its own tracks in the majority of its network, it also runs on Network Rail tracks.


== Train operating companies (TOCs) ==

Twenty-five privately owned train operating companies were each franchised for a defined term by government in 1996–97. They operated passenger trains in Great Britain. However, franchises have ceased to exist and are being replaced by operating contracts, which do not involve significant commercial risk for the operators. The Rail Delivery Group is the trade association representing the TOCs, which includes both franchised and open access operators, and provides core services, including the provision of the National Rail Enquiries service. It also runs Rail Settlement Plan, which formerly allocated ticket revenue to the various TOCs, and Rail Staff Travel, which manages travel facilities for railway staff. It does not compile the national timetable, which is the joint responsibility of the Office of Rail and Road (allocation of paths) and Network Rail (timetable production and publication). Since March 2020 all ticket revenue has been collected by the Department for Transport, which also pays the operators' costs.


== Design and marketing ==
Following the privatisation of British Rail there was no longer a single approach to railway corporate design. The look and feel of signage, liveries and marketing material was largely the preserve of the individual TOCs. However, railway reforms which are currently in progress will restore the pre-privatisation position, with design responsibilities for the whole network resting with the new 'guiding mind', Great British Railways.
However, National Rail continues to use BR's double-arrow symbol, designed by Gerald Burney of the Design Research Unit. It has been incorporated in the National Rail logotype and is displayed on tickets, the National Rail website and other publicity. The trademark rights to the double arrow symbol remain state-owned, being vested in the Secretary of State for Transport.
The double arrow symbol is also a generic symbol for a railway station across Great Britain, and is used to indicate a railway station on British traffic signs.


== Corporate identity ==

The National Rail (NR) logo was introduced by ATOC in 1999 (previously the British Rail logo as used from 1965), and was used on the Great Britain public timetable for the first time in the edition valid from 26 September in that year. Rules for its use are set out in the Corporate Identity Style Guidelines published by the Rail Delivery Group, available on its website. "In 1964 the Design Research Unit—Britain's first multi-disciplinary design agency founded in 1943 by Misha Black, Milner Gray and Herbert Read—was commissioned to breathe new life into the nation's neglected railway industry". The NR title is sometimes described as a "brand". As it was used by British Rail, the single operator before franchising, its use also maintains continuity and public familiarity; and it avoids the need to replace signage.
The lettering used in the National Rail logotype is a modified form of the typeface Sassoon Bold. Some train operating companies continue to use the former British Rail Rail Alphabet lettering to varying degrees in station signage, although its use is no longer universal; however it remains compulsory (under Railway Group Standards) for safety signage in trackside areas and is still common (although not universal) on rolling stock.
The British Rail typefaces of choice from 1965 were Helvetica and Univers, with others (particularly Frutiger) coming into use during the sectorisation period after 1983. TOCs may use what they like: examples include Futura (Stagecoach Group), Helvetica (FirstGroup and National Express), Johnston (London Overground and Elizabeth line), Frutiger (Arriva Trains Wales), Bliss (CrossCountry), and a modified version of Precious by London Midland.


== Other passenger rail operators in Great Britain ==

Several conurbations have their own metro or tram systems, most of which are not part of National Rail. These include the London Underground, Docklands Light Railway, London Tramlink, Blackpool Tramway, Glasgow Subway, Tyne and Wear Metro, Manchester Metrolink, Sheffield Supertram, West Midlands Metro and Nottingham Express Transit. On the other hand, the largely self-contained Merseyrail system is part of the National Rail network, and urban rail networks around Birmingham, Cardiff, Glasgow and West Yorkshire consist entirely of National Rail services.
London Overground and the Elizabeth line (formerly TfL Rail) are hybrids: Their services are operated via a concession awarded by Transport for London (TfL). They are part of National Rail as train operating companies, where tickets can be used in the same way as other operators, and shown in the National Rail timetable. However, under Transport for London, they are considered as separate networks. They are listed separately in all materials produced by TfL than National Rail, stations serving London Overground or the Elizabeth line only do not have the National Rail logo shown on either the station themselves or the tube map, and fares on these two networks are priced as TfL services, the same as London Underground, rather than National Rail services. The National Rail service status web page by TfL also does not list these two systems.
London Overground also owns some infrastructure in its own right, following the reopening of the former London Underground East London line and the extension to Barking Riverside.
Eurostar is also not part of the National Rail network despite sharing of tracks and stations (along High Speed 1). Northern Ireland Railways were never part of British Rail, which was limited to England, Scotland and Wales.
There are many privately owned or heritage railways in Great Britain which are not part of the National Rail network and mostly operate for heritage or pleasure purposes rather than as public transport, but some have connections to National Rail track.


== Ticketing ==
National Rail services have a common ticketing structure inherited from British Rail. Through tickets are available between any pair of stations on the network, and can be bought from any station ticket office. Most tickets are inter-available between the services of all operators on routes appropriate to the journey being made. Operators on some routes offer operator-specific tickets that are cheaper than the inter-available ones.
Through tickets involving London Underground, or to some ferry services (RailSail tickets) are also available. Oyster pay-as-you-go can be used on National Rail in Greater London from 2 January 2010. These same areas can also be journeyed to using a contactless debit/credit card. Contactless also covers some areas that Oyster does not, such as the Elizabeth line to Reading, or the Thameslink station at Oakleigh Park.

The most common types of tickets available include 'advance' tickets, that specify a specific route and timing between two destinations, 'off-peak' tickets, either as a single or a return, that allow a passenger to use a train at hours where the service is not busy, and 'anytime' tickets, which can be used on any train. Season tickets, which offer unlimited travel between two stations for a specified period, are also available. A 'rover' travel card ticket also exists that allows unlimited travel in a set area or on services of certain operators, for a certain period of time. Rovers which allow unlimited travel for only one day are sometimes referred to as ranger tickets, and are usually available for smaller areas.
Passengers without a valid ticket boarding a train at a station where ticket-buying facilities are available are required to pay the full Open Single or Return fare. On some services penalty fares apply – a ticketless passenger may be charged the greater of £20 or twice the full single fare to the next stop. Penalty Fares can be collected only by authorised Revenue Protection Inspectors, not by ordinary Guards.
National Rail distributes a number of technical manuals on which travel on the railways in Great Britain is based, such as the National Rail Conditions of Travel, via their website.


== Timetables ==
Pocket timetables for individual operators or routes are available free at staffed stations. The last official printed timetable with up to 3000 pages was published in 2007. Now the only complete print edition is published by Middleton Press (as of October 2016).  A digital version of the full timetable is available as a PDF file without charge on the Network Rail website; however, passengers are recommended to obtain their timetables from the individual train companies.


== National Rail website ==
The National Rail website, previously called National Rail Enquiries, handles an average of 2.5 million journey planning enquiries every weekday through its website, apps and contact centre, and through information services supplied to third parties (such as open access data feeds).
It is Britain's largest and most accurate travel information website, peaking at more than 10 million visitors per day, more than its nearest competitors. It is considered the official authority for rail travel in Britain and regularly cited by the BBC and other large media outlets. Some train companies are not linked to for commercial reasons such as the Caledonian Sleeper but it cites National Rail's website as "the best place to find information on any temporary limits on accessibility".
The National Rail website includes a journey planner, fare and live departure information. The site is designed to complement the myriad different websites of Britain's privatised rail companies, so when users have selected which tickets they wish to buy, they are redirected to the most relevant train company website, where they can buy their tickets without booking fees.
In 2012 the website was joined by a mobile app mirroring its functionality. The app is available for iPhone and Android.
In June 2020, a real time personalised messaging service, Alert Me, was launched, providing real-time disruption and crowding information via Messenger. This was followed in September 2021 by a similar service made available through WhatsApp. The service was closed in June 2023 leaving only a simple SMS based messaging service in place for customers. Both services were provided by a British transport technology company Zipabout.
In April 2021 the National Rail website turned from colour to greyscale in a tribute to Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, who had recently died. The gesture however backfired after users highlighted accessibility issues and complained they could no longer use the website. The website was quickly reverted back to its original design the same day following customer accessibility feedback.
In July 2021 the Department of Transport published the world’s first 'greenprint' to decarbonise all modes of domestic transport by 2050 in the UK. It was published two months before the climate summit COP26, and planned to provide a world-leading 'greenprint' to cut emissions from "seas and skies, roads and railways". The nationalrail.co.uk website also signed up to the same carbon commitment, which was referred to as 'The Green Travel Pledge' and was cited on its website and via Rail Delivery Group media.
In June 2023 the website was completely overhauled with an entirely new frontend retaining little of the old designs but the brand logo remained. The website is quoted as saying its website is, "cleaner, more modern, and full of better information". In addition, its original mobile website which was a sub-domain (m.nationalrail.co.uk now redirects) was switched off.
Earlier in 2024 National Rail's digital journey planner was also switched off and redirected to the new version. Online Journey Planner (OJP) was the engine used to plan routes, calculate fares and establish ticket availability. The OJP accesses real-time information directly from Darwin, meaning all journey plans take account of delays, schedule changes and train cancellations. The OJP data feed APIs are available for use under licence. Darwin is the data system that powers all the real-time information which customers use to check the status of train journeys. In 2024 Darwin celebrated its 20th anniversary.
National Rail also publishes route and destination pages on its website (e.g. “trains to Glasgow” or “london to manchester”), which provide travel information, journey planning tools and links to purchase rail tickets for journeys across Great Britain. These pages combine route and destination information with access to fares and booking options through the National Rail journey planner. One of these pages was cited in a BBC travel article about the best slow train journey in Britain by train expert Tom Chesshyre in 2025.


== Future ==
Under the plans (Bill 325 2024-26) laid out in the current parliament underpinning the creation of Great British Railways (GBR), the Labour government intends to consolidate many of the existing rail industry bodies into the new organisation, with their roles carried out under the GBR banner.


== See also ==
Great British Railways
Rail Accident Investigation Branch
Rail transport in the United Kingdom
Railcard


== References ==


== External links ==
National Rail – official website
Live departure boards – at National Rail

Five ships and a number of shore establishments of the Royal Navy have borne the name HMS Daedalus, after the mythical Daedalus:

HMS Daedalus (1780) was a 32-gun fifth rate frigate launched in 1780. She was lent to Trinity House between 1803 and 1806 as a hulk, and was broken up in 1811.
HMS Daedalus (1811) was a 40-gun fifth rate, previously the Italian frigate Corona.  She was captured from the Italians in 1811 and was wrecked in 1813.
HMS Daedalus (1826) was a 46-gun fifth rate launched in 1826.  She was reduced to 20 guns in 1843 and became a Royal Naval Reserve drill ship in 1862.  She was sold in 1911.
HMS Daedalus was an iron screw floating battery launched in 1856 as HMS Thunderbolt.  Converted to a floating pierhead in 1873, she bore the name HMS Daedalus between 1916 and 1919 whilst serving as the nominal depot ship of the Royal Naval Air Service. Personnel of Royal Naval Air Service Training Establishment, Cranwell were held against HMS Daedalus (see Royal Air Force College Cranwell#History.  The vessel was sunk in 1948 when a tug collided with her, and raised the following year to be broken up.
HMS Daedalus was to have been a Danae-class light cruiser. She was ordered in 1918, but cancelled later that year.
HMS Daedalus (shore establishment) was a naval air station, RNAS Lee-on-Solent.  The base was opened in 1917 and transferred to the RAF in 1918.  It was returned to the successor of the Royal Naval Air Service, the Fleet Air Arm, in 1939.  It and various out-stations bore the name HMS Daedalus between 1957 and 1996.
HMS Daedalus II was a seaplane base and training establishment at several locations around the United Kingdom.  Commissioned in 1940, the base was paid off in 1946.
HMS Daedalus III was an accommodation and release centre at Lee on Solent and Bedhampton between 1943 and 1947.


== References ==
Colledge, J. J.; Warlow, Ben (2006) [1969]. Ships of the Royal Navy: The Complete Record of All Fighting Ships of the Royal Navy from the 15th Century to the Present (3rd Rev ed.). London: Chatham Publishing. ISBN 978-1-86176-281-8. OCLC 67375475.
Warlow, Ben (2000). Shore Establishments of the Royal Navy. Liskeard, Cornwall: Maritime Books. ISBN 0-907771-73-4.

Rattlesnake Creek (Rattlesnake Brook in some sources) is an underground waterway in the northeast Bronx, New York City. It flowed above ground level until the mid-20th century, with a waterfall and a pond over its course. Rattlesnake Creek has since been mostly covered over, but a small portion of it is still visible in Seton Falls Park.


== Course ==
According to old maps, the source of the creek was near Nereid and Hill Avenues in the Bronx's Wakefield neighborhood, where it flows southwest, then turns southeast near East 233rd Street. It then flows above ground at Seton Falls Park, entering a man-made waterfall. After exiting the park, it flows back underground. South of Boston Road, the creek flowed into a 15-acre (6.1 ha) man-made pond called Holler's Pond, located at the site of the Boston Secor Houses in the Eastchester neighborhood. Rattlesnake Creek then passes through Co-op City, draining into the Hutchinson River. Before draining into the Hutchinson River, it split into two small distributaries, one of which was named Mill Creek.
The majority of Co-op City was built atop the mouth of Rattlesnake Creek. Some streets such as Alcott Place, Bellamy Loop, and Dreiser Loop directly follow the creek's path. A small nature preserve called the Givans Creek Woods is located at the northern portion of Co-op City, near the intersection of Baychester Avenue and Co-op City Boulevard. Despite its name, which is derived from Scottish immigrant Robert Givan, it is located above Rattlesnake Creek. The actual Givans Creek is located slightly to the south.


== Etymology ==
There was once an abundant population of rattlesnakes in the northeast Bronx, after which the creek is named. The rattlesnake population was identified as a problem in the late 18th century, when Eastchester town officials agreed to meet once a week to discuss the eradication of the snakes. According to a Bronx historian, Eastchester's ten founding families dedicated one day each spring "for the destroying of rattlesnake", using hogs to hunt down the rattlesnakes because the hogs' fat was resistant to the snakes' fangs. By the early 20th century, the snake population had been eliminated. However, some sources put their eradication at an earlier date, saying that the last snake was a 6-foot-long (1.8 m) specimen killed in 1775.


== History ==

Prior to the American Revolutionary War, the area around Rattlesnake Creek was owned by Thomas Pell. In 1739, Thomas Shute and Joseph Stanton built a mill to dam the creek south of Boston Road, creating Holler's Pond. Further upstream, the creek was dammed by William Seton, son of Saint Elizabeth Ann Seton, who owned the land around what is now Seton Falls Park in the mid-19th century. This created two more ponds and a waterfall. Seton's mill was destroyed in a 1900 storm, but the waterfall remained.  The cascade was described as a 30-foot (9.1 m) descent with two separate falls. Also located along the brook may have been the estate of Anne Hutchinson, which according to a 1929 map was located in Baychester between Rattlesnake Creek and a now-filled stream called Black Dog Brook.
By 1926, Rattlesnake Creek was polluted and several cases of typhoid could be traced to the creek. After Seton Falls Park was acquired by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation in 1930, the agency rerouted the creek's path within the park into a stone channel and infilled the two ponds on the Seton estate. Downstream, Holler's Pond was used to harvest ice, and there were several ice houses on the shore of the pond, which were all demolished by 1935. The pond was also popular among ice-skaters until it was infilled in 1951.  Boston-Secor Houses was built over the infilled pond in 1968. There was a wood-framed beer garden on the shore of the pond, at 4018 Boston Road near the intersection with Dyre Avenue, which was demolished in 1960.
The mouth of the creek was covered in 1960 by Freedomland U.S.A., a theme park dedicated to the history of the United States. Before Freedomland's construction, that land had been a municipal landfill built atop the marshland on the banks of the Hutchinson River. The construction of Freedomland resulted in drastic landscaping changes around the mouth of the creek. Freedomland was shuttered in 1964 and its site was used for the development of Co-op City.
Rattlesnake Creek remains mostly extant, albeit in underground pipes. The only remaining above-ground section of the creek upstream is in Seton Falls Park. Within the park, an exit culvert from the creek was destroyed in 1973, creating a swamp that killed nearby trees, though the culvert and a sewer pipe under it were restored in the mid-1980s. A vestige of the old Holler's Pond mill's existence is Reeds Mill Lane, a discontinuous road between Boston Road and the New England Thruway, which cuts an irregular route through the Baychester street grid.


== References ==

Preobrazhensky (Russian: Преображенский; masculine), Preobrazhenskaya (Преображенская; feminine), or Preobrazhenskoye (Преображенское; neuter) is the name of several rural localities in Russia:

Preobrazhensky, Krasnoyarsk Krai, a settlement in Nazarovsky District of Krasnoyarsk Krai
Preobrazhensky, Novosibirsk Oblast, a settlement in Chulymsky District of Novosibirsk Oblast
Preobrazhensky, name of several other rural localities
Preobrazhenskaya, Republic of Bashkortostan, a village in Iglinsky District of the Republic of Bashkortostan
Preobrazhenskaya, Volgograd Oblast, a stanitsa in Kikvidzensky District of Volgograd Oblast
Preobrazhenskaya, name of several other rural localities
Preobrazhenskoye, Republic of Adygea, a selo in Krasnogvardeysky District of the Republic of Adygea
Preobrazhenskoye, Ivanovo Oblast, a selo in Yuzhsky District of Ivanovo Oblast
Preobrazhenskoye, name of several other rural localities
Abolished inhabited localities
Preobrazhenskoye, Kamchatka Oblast, a selo in Aleutsky District of Kamchatka Oblast; abolished in the 1960s

Konstantin Nikolayevich Bestuzhev-Ryumin (Russian: Константин Николаевич Бестужев-Рюмин; 26 May [O.S. 14 May ] 1829 – 14 January [O.S. 2 January] 1897) was a Russian historian.
He was the head of the School of Historiography at the University of St. Petersburg (1864–85) and was elected into the St. Petersburg Academy of Sciences in 1890. In 1878, he founded and gave his name to the Bestuzhev Courses, "the largest and most prominent women's higher education institution in Russia".


== Career ==
Bestuzhev was born into one of Russia's oldest families; Mikhail Bestuzhev-Ryumin was his uncle. He started out as a journalist, helping Andrey Krayevsky to edit the literary journal Otechestvennye Zapiski where he published numerous reviews of historical and ethnographic works. He was drawn to a moderate wing of the Slavophile movement and welcomed Nikolai Danilevsky's theories. His pupils include Alexander III of Russia, several Grand Dukes from the Romanov family, and historian Sergey Platonov.
Among Bestuzhev's works are a set of popular books on Russia's history, several monographs on medieval paleography, and the two volumes of Russian History. The latter work is considered his magnum opus. Bestuzhev was known for carefully detailing the views of other historians whilst withholding his own opinions.


== Citations ==


== Sources ==
"Бестужев-Рюмин, Константин Николаевич" . Brockhaus and Efron Encyclopedic Dictionary (in Russian). 1906.
Киреева Р. А. Бестужев-Рюмин и историческая наука второй половины XIX века. М., 1990.
Киреева Р. А. Бестужев-Рюмин К. Н. // Историки России: Биографии / Под ред. А.А. Чернобаева. М., 2001.
Малинов А. В. К. Н. Бестужев-Рюмин: Очерк теоретико-исторических и философских взглядов. СПб., 2005.
Imperial Moscow University: 1755-1917: encyclopedic dictionary. Moscow: Russian political encyclopedia (ROSSPEN). 2010. pp. 66–67. ISBN 978-5-8243-1429-8 – via A. Andreev, D. Tsygankov.

5 Commando was a mercenary unit of the Congolese National Army (French: Armée Nationale Congolaise [ANC]) formed in response to the Simba rebellion; they were trained to be commandos and had their own air support unit. 5 Commando was active from 1964 to 1967.


== Mercenary recruitment ==

In December 1963, a Maoist-inspired rebellion called the Kwilu rebellion broke out in the Kwilu Province of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It began as a tribal dispute and then grew to a challenge against the central government. Although it remained relatively minor, it marked the start of a spreading wave of rebellions against the contemporary central government. As unrest spread, leftist rebels established a Committee for National Liberation in Kivu, inspired by the late Patrice Lubumba. In 1964, Moïse Tshombe returned from self-exile in Spain and declared himself to be the only person who could bring about unity between the warring factions. His popularity and political acumen led him to being appointed as Prime Minister on 6 July 1964.
By August, the rebellion had turned to limited civil war, and Soviet and Cuban Communist-backed Simba rebels were marching on Stanleyville, taking control of the city on 5 August 1964. The defeat of the ANC at Stanleyville and capitulation of the capital city of Orientale Province came as a shock to the government, to Belgium, and to the United States. However, unlike the case of the secessionist uprising of 1961, in this case the United Nations and the United States expressed less willingness to engage in direct intervention against the rebels. Based on Tshombe's 1961 experiences in Katanga, as well as America's reluctance for direct involvement, Prime Minister Tshombe contracted mercenaries to address the rebellion.


== Formation ==
In July 1964, Jerry Puren (a former mercenary officer in the Katangese Air Force) started recruiting mercenaries to support the ANC on request of the Congolese Prime Minister Moïse Tshombe. Puren focused his efforts in South Africa and alerted 200 men of possible employment as mercenaries. An ex-British military officer, Mike Hoare, had known Tshombe and had served as one of his officers in 1961, and he was now designated commander of the mercenary force. Puren was to be in charge of air operations. Second in command was former executive officer of the Rhodesian Special Air Services, Alastair Wicks, who had also served with both Hoare and Tshombe in 1961.
Recruitment centers for the new force were established in South Africa and in both Northern and Southern Rhodesia. Hoare placed newspaper ads in the South African Johannesburg Star newspaper and in Salisbury newspapers (modern Harare, Zimbabwe) calling upon physically fit white men "...capable of marching 20 miles per day and who were fond of combat and were "tremendous romantics" to join 5 Commando." Contracts were for six months and basic pay was advertised at US$280 (equivalent to $2,907 in 2025) per month plus US$420 (equivalent to $4,360 in 2025) danger pay and 37,000 Congolese francs as a monthly allowance. NCOs received basic pay of US$400 (equivalent to $4,152 in 2025) and senior officers were compensated with US$1,100 (equivalent to $11,419 in 2025) in USD per month. Compensation of US$19,000 (equivalent to $197,237 in 2025) was payable to next of kin in the event of death.
"Adventurers" from South Africa, many of whom had fought with Moise Tshombe in the secession of Katanga Province, signed up, as did recruits from Rhodesia and Nyasaland. The Congolese, as well as officials of other African states, deeply resented the recruitment of South Africans and Rhodesians; this led to Tshombe's frequently assuring the Organisation of African Unity that he would replace the white mercenaries with African replacements as soon as they could be recruited and trained. 5 Commando eventually comprised volunteers from South Africa, Rhodesia, the United Kingdom, Belgium and Germany. Hoare described the men from the initial batch of recruits as being of "alarmingly low" standard with a "...high proportion of alcoholics, drunks, booze artists, bums and layabouts." He also complained about drug addicts and homosexuals among the recruits. Belgian colonels Frédéric Vandewalle and Louis Marlière expressed similar doubts about the quality of the recruits, with the latter commenting that they were "pirates who are not worth anything in battle." United States Ambassador George Godley described the unit as "an uncontrolled lot of toughs [...] who consider looting or safe-cracking fully within their prerogatives."
Organizationally, 5 Commando was divided into eight sub-units, designated 51 to 58 Commando, with two officers and three sergeants per sub-unit; these were reinforced, platoon-sized units.  The first orders issued to Hoare by the chief of the ANC, Major General Joseph Desire Mobutu instructed Hoare to: 1.) Deploy a company of 200 immediately to Kamina with the mission to retake Manono, Albertville, Fizi and Uvira. 2.) Designate 300 volunteers formed into six platoons for the six mobile groups that had been planned and 3.) Assign 500 volunteers in a company with elements of the ANC to immediately retake Stanleyville. By 2 September 1964 recruiting had stopped as 1,000 recruits had been signed up, but the facilities, training and organization of 5 Commando made the attainment of the first orders highly unlikely.
The Belgian government dispatched Colonel Vandewalle to the Congo; during a meeting with Tshombe, Vandewalle clarified he would not tolerate political interference with military operations. Consequently, he was given authority to work directly with the Belgian logistics units, the CIA's air support, and the mercenaries. As a result, Belgian logistics units supported 5 Commando by providing them with weapons, ammunition, trucks and uniforms. After a few weeks of training, 5 Commando went into combat.


== Operations ==
Early on, 5 Commando was plagued by poor logistics and a lack of discipline. A few days after the first group of mercenaries for the unit in the Congo, Hoare launched two attacks against the Simba-held city of Albertville. Both were repulsed. The lack of equipment, inadequate training, and irregularities in pay damaged the unit's morale and the unit incurred a high casualty rate. Over the course of late 1964, the Congolese government improved the financial and logistical situation while Hoare screened out soldiers he deemed unfit. By the end of the year, 5 Commando still suffered from disciplinary problems. By early 1965, the Congolese government had driven rebels out of much of the eastern Congo, but the situation remained unstable. The 5 Commando group was tasked with securing the border, reestablishing lines of communication, and clearing out pockets of resistance, especially in the Fizi-Baraka and Uvari areas.
5 Commando played a significant role in rescuing hostages, particularly European hostages, from Simba rebels.  These actions frequently made headlines in Europe and made the mercenaries popular heroes for a limited period.  In contrast to these heroic headlines, the mercenaries supplemented their wages by searching bodies for cash and robbing banks in Stanleyville.
5 Commando received ongoing support from the United States' CIA through air support operations as well as by providing and crewing Swift boats for operations on Lake Tanganyika.  The boats were used to support 5 Commando (often under 5 Commando command) and were crewed by Miami-Cuban, anti-Castro crews, recruited by and paid by the CIA. The United States insisted that there be "no overt relationship with the mercenaries," but this relationship between the CIA and 5 Commando could not be kept secret.  This was further evidenced by frequent meetings between Mike Hoare and later John Peters and the CIA Congo Station Chief, Larry Devlin.  Besides tactical support, the United States provided F-250 trucks and 7-ton cargo vehicles for operational use by the mercenaries.
Peters assumed command of 5 Commando from Hoare in December 1965. Georg Schroeder late assumed command from him.


== Alleged war crimes ==
The 5 Commando were known for unsanctioned killing, torture, looting and rape in recaptured rebel areas. In a press interview, Hoare described his men as "appalling thugs." Some South African members of the unit were later convicted of manslaughter by Congolese courts.


== Disbandment ==


=== Military coup and ousting of Tshombe ===
5 Commando became highly efficient in working with the ANC troops and they cleared eastern Congo of Simba rebels. They almost captured Che Guevara in his camp, forcing him to escape to Tanzania, but these victories came at a political cost. On 13 October 1965, Congolese President Joseph Kasa-Vubu relieved Prime Minister Tshombe of his duties and replaced him with Évariste Kimba, considering Tshombe too ambitious and too unpopular both in the country and in neighboring African states. Mobutu shortly thereafter removed both President Kasavubu and Prime Minister Kimba in a coup, appointing himself President. Tshombe had been a friend of, and protector to, 5 and 6 Commando, so his ousting immediately caused uncertainty and insecurity within 5 Commando. Jerry Puren left the Congo with Tshombe for exile in Belgium. Mike Hoare and Alistair Wicks did not renew their contracts and left the Congo. John Peters, then commanding officer of 5 Commando, continued to pledge his—and the unit's—loyalty to the government and continued operations in southern Congo.


=== Mercenary revolt ===

Jerry Puren, once in Belgium, was informed of a plan to reinstall Tshombe as Prime Minister. The Baka Regiment of the ANC, together with the mercenary commandos led by Jean Schramme and by Bob Denard, had committed to support the plan. Puren refused to take part in the counter-coup and Mike Hoare, Alistair Wicks, John Peters and Hugh van Oppen (Peters and van Oppen were still serving members of 5 Commando) were approached to support the revolt but all refused. On 23 July, the Baka Regiment and 11, 12, 13 and 14 Commandos revolted to support the exiled Tshombe, killing the commander of the ANC and taking control of the radio station in Stanleyville. 6 Commando, led by Bob Denard, opposed the uprising and notified the government; they called for support to put down the uprising. A stalemate ensued in Stanleyville until September 1966, when Denard attacked the Katanga units in the city. 5 Commando re-deployed from southern Congo to support 6 Commando to cover any Katanga escape routes from the city. A truce was negotiated and those Katanga troops who were not killed were given amnesty, while officers were transported to prisons in Elisabethville. The rebellion had failed and Mobutu remained secure as president. The failed rebellion did, however, reinforce perceptions that 5 and 6 Commando were loyal to Mobutu.
After this failed revolt, Puren (still in Belgium) started his own plan to reinstall Tshombe, selecting Jean Schramme of 10 Commando to lead the second revolt. After much planning, including Denard in the planning, Schramme launched surprise attacks on Stanleyville, Bukavu and Kindu.  Stanleyville and Bukavu were taken with little resistance, but the mercenaries faced stronger resistance in Kindu. ANC forces recovered Stanleyville, executing several mercenaries, and Schramme withdrew from the city to establish a stronghold in Bukavu. Mobutu issued an ultimatum, ordering Schramme to evacuate Bukavu within ten days. The ANC attacked when the ultimatum expired; on 5 November 1966, Schramme, together with 150 mercenaries, 800 Katanga soldiers and 1,500 women and children fled across the Rwandan border and were disarmed and interned by the Rwandan military at Shangugu. The second mercenary revolt had also collapsed. Elsewhere in other skirmishes, many mercenaries were massacred and surviving European mercenaries were evacuated by the Red Cross.


=== Disbandment ===
Mobutu ordered all recruitment for 5 Commando to cease in March 1967; the unit was disbanded in April on Mobutu's order. He likely did so for three reasons: to avoid the expense of paying the mercenaries, to forestall any attempts by Tshombe to use the unit in a further coup attempt, and to avoid the potential embarrassment of employing white mercenaries when the Congo was due to host an upcoming Organisation of African Unity annual conference in September.


== In popular culture ==
The film The Wild Geese, made in 1978: directed by Andrew V. McLaglen and starring Richard Burton, Roger Moore, Richard Harris, and Hardy Krüger was based on the formation and tribulations of Mike Hoare and 5 Commando.


== Notes ==


== References ==


=== Bibliography ===
Baker, Patrick S. (2013). "Mercenaries and the Congo Crisis". Saber and Soul. 2 (1 Winter 2013 (Edited and Revised May 2015)). Saber and Scroll. Archived from the original on 21 March 2022.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: miscellaneous url (link)
Devlin, Larry (2007). Chief of station Congo: A memoir of 1960-67. New York: Public Affairs. ISBN 978-1-58648-405-7.
Dodenhoff, George H. (1969). "The Congo: A case study of mercenary employment". Naval War College Review. 21 (8). U.S. Naval War College Press: 44–70.
Geraghty, Tony (2007). Guns for Hire: The inside story of freelance soldiering (1st ed.). London: Piatkus Books Ltd. ISBN 978-0-7499-5145-0.
Gleijeses, Piero (April 1994). ""Flee! The White Giants Are Coming!": The United States, the Mercenaries, and the Congo, 1964–65" (PDF). Diplomatic History. 18 (2): 207–37. doi:10.1111/j.1467-7709.1994.tb00611.x. ISSN 0145-2096. Archived from the original (PDF) on 21 January 2018. Retrieved 13 August 2014.
Hoare, Mike (2008). Congo Mercenary. Boulder, Co.: Paladin. ISBN 978-1-58160-639-3.
Hudson, Andrew (2012). Congo Unravelled: Military operations from Independence to the Mercenary Revolt, 1960–68. Helion and Company. ISBN 978-1907677632.
Nzongola-Ntalaja, Georges (2007). The Congo, From Leopold to Kabila: A People's History (3rd ed.). New York: Palgrave. ISBN 9781842770535.
Passemiers, Lazlo (2019). Decolonisation and Regional Geopolitics : South Africa and the 'Congo Crisis', 1960–1965 (online ed.). London: Routledge. ISBN 9781351138161.
Smith, Ivan (2012). Mad dog killers: The story of a Congo mercenary. West Midlands: Helion and Co. Ltd. ISBN 978-1-920143-51-0.
Wing, Lt.Cdr. Ian (29 March 2013). "Private Military Companies and Operations". Land Warfare Studies Centre. Archived from the original on 29 March 2013. Retrieved 17 September 2017.


== External links ==
Video: Mercenaries in The Congo Crisis 1964: Mad Mike Hoare's 5 Commando
List of members of 5 Commando may be found at this website: [1] Archived 25 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine

Kim Hee-sun (born 20 April 1963) is a South Korean athlete. She competed in the women's high jump at the 1988 Summer Olympics.


== References ==


== External links ==
Kim Hee-sun at World Athletics
Kim Hee-sun at Tilastopaja (registration required)
Kim Hee-sun at Olympedia
Kim Hee-sun at InterSportStats

"Hometown Kids" is a song co-written and recorded by Canadian country duo The Reklaws. The duo wrote the song with Gavin Slate and Travis Wood. It was the debut and lead single off their debut studio album Freshman Year.


== Background ==
Stuart Walker told The Boot that the sibling duo "wanted everybody to understand that we are just college kids at heart". It was the first song they wrote with prolific Canadian country songwriters Gavin Slate and Travis Wood. Jenna Walker said the song is "important to us because it was our first major, like, [time to] sit down [and] really configure who we are as artists and what we want to say".


== Critical reception ==
Jenna Melanson of Canadian Beats Media called the song the "perfect summer anthem". Mary Ayers of Teenplicity referred to the track as a "joyful country jam" that "creates a yearning for fun summer nights with friends". Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau added the song to his personal Spotify playlist.


== Music video ==
The official music video for "Hometown Kids" premiered on August 17, 2017. It features Jenna Walker and Stuart Walker of the Reklaws, as well as forty of their closest friends. The video was filmed in their hometown of Cambridge, Ontario and directed by Ben Knechtel.


== Credits and personnel ==
Credits adapted from Freshman Year CD booklet.


== Chart performance ==
"Hometown Kids" reached a peak of #16 on the Billboard Canada Country chart for the week of December 9, 2017.


== Certifications ==


== References ==

Michael Enright (born 1964) is a British actor who has appeared in American film and television productions, including playing supporting characters in Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest and Old Dogs, as well as in several TV series including Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., Law & Order: LA, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, Cold Case, Criminal Minds: Suspect Behavior, and Castle. In 2015, Enright joined the Kurdish People's Protection Units as a volunteer to fight ISIL. As of October 2019, he was living in Belize and trying to obtain permission to reenter the United States.
His life is the subject of the 2021 documentary film Heval, which was the first original feature-length film released by Curiosity Stream.


== Early life ==
Enright has stated that he grew up in a tough neighbourhood in Manchester, and that when he was eighteen, his father, who had been diagnosed with cancer, committed suicide. A year later, Enright travelled to the United States, initially going to New York on a tourist visa. He overstayed and began to work at various informal economy jobs, later moving to Los Angeles to pursue acting gigs. In the aftermath of the Rwandan genocide of 1994, he went to Rwanda and volunteered there at an orphanage for some time, before returning to the United States with another tourist visa and overstaying that one as well.


== Acting career ==
Enright was initially cast as a boxer in a soft drink commercial and then appeared as an IRA member on the television series JAG, in 1997.
In the 2000s, he was cast in films including Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest and Old Dogs, as well as several TV series, such as Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., Law & Order: LA, CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, Cold Case, Criminal Minds: Suspect Behavior, and Castle.


== Kurdish YPG and aftermath ==
Enright joined the Kurdish YPG to fight against ISIS in January 2015, after watching the execution of Jordanian pilot Muath al-Kasasbeh. He contacted the Kurdish People's Protection Units through a British SAS friend and was told to fly to the Iraqi Kurdish city of Sulaymaniyah via Istanbul. According to Enright, he passed physical training in the People's Protection Units and learned to assemble and dismantle a Kalashnikov rifle blindfolded in order to be able to use it at night. Enright was given an AK-47, and fought ISIS on the front lines.
After completing a six-month tour of duty with the YPG, Enright attempted to return to the United States from Mexico via the San Ysidro border crossing south of San Diego, California, but his passport was flagged due to him previously overstaying several tourist visas, as he had lived in the United States for about three decades without authorization. According to Enright, he was kept in a detention facility for six weeks under extreme overcrowded conditions and was then deported to England, but with a verbal offer to be allowed entry if he could help get information on ISIS. He went back with the YPG for an extended eighteen-month tour of duty. After helping to liberate Raqqa (the ISIS capital) in 2017, he left Syria and went to the American embassy in Belize to request permission to reenter the United States.


== Heval ==
On 23 September 2021, American entertainment company Curiosity Stream released the documentary film Heval, its first-ever feature-length production. The film, produced by Jupiter Entertainment, explores the life of Michael Enright and his time serving with the YPG.


== Filmography ==


=== Film ===


=== Television ===


== See also ==
List of armed groups in the Syrian Civil War
Foreign volunteers in the People's Protection Units


== References ==


== External links ==
Michael Enright at IMDb

Sarah Hartwig (24 February, 1773 York - 30 April 1815, Freetown) was an English missionary teacher in Sierra Leone, West Africa.

She was born Sarah Windsor (or Winsor) in York, England. She worked as a governess in Surrey. 
In 1804, she married Peter Hartwig a German missionary from Prussia in Clapham, London. He entered service of the Church Missionary Society set up by the Church of England. The same year, she followed him to Freetown in Sierra Leone with two of his colleagues. They were the first British missionaries of the Anglican Church in Africa. She was also the first wife of a British missionary to travel to Africa (female missionaries did not yet exist) and as such became the first British women missionary active in Africa. 
Between 1804 and 1806, she managed a missionary school attached to her home in Freetown upon the encouragement of Governor William Day. She was the first woman to manage a school in Africa, the first woman to teach at such a school, and the first to manage an African school which accepted girls as well as boys. This was also one of the first schools in Freetown. The school was defined as a state school and she was given her salary by the governor, which made her a civil servant with status in Freetown. 
She was sent back to England in 1806 because of the conflict between her spouse and vice governor Thomas Ludlam. 
Her widower abandoned his missionary work in 1807 and engaged in the slave trade, marrying an African wife and settling on the Rio Pongo.


== See also ==
Julia Sass


== References ==

Walkden is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Alexander Walkden, 1st Baron Walkden (1873–1951), British trade union leader and Labour politician
Bianca Walkden (born 1991), British taekwondo practitioner
Christine Walkden (born 1955), British television presenter and gardener
Christopher Walkden (1938-2011), British Olympic swimmer
Evelyn Walkden (1893-1970), British politician and trade unionist
George Walkden (1883-1923), English cricketer who played first class cricket for Derbyshire
Pat Walkden (born 1946), South African female tennis player
Peter Walkden (1684–1769), English Presbyterian minister and diarist

Valentina Islamova (born 18 March 1992) is an ethnic Russian freestyle wrestler representing Kazakhstan. She is a bronze medalist at the World Wrestling Championships and a three-time medalist, including the gold medal in 2021, at the Asian Wrestling Championships. She represented Kazakhstan at the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan.


== Career ==
In 2015, at the Golden Grand Prix Ivan Yarygin held in Krasnoyarsk, Russia, she won the gold medal in the women's 48 kg event. In the same year, she represented Russia at the 2015 European Games held in Baku, Azerbaijan and she won one of the bronze medals in the 48 kg event.
In 2019, Islamova won one of the bronze medals in the 50 kg event at the 2019 Asian Wrestling Championships held in Xi'an, China. She also won one of the bronze medals in the 50 kg event at the World Wrestling Championships held in Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan. In 2020, she repeated this result at the Asian Wrestling Championships held in New Delhi, India. In 2021, Islamova secured the gold medal in her event at the Asian Wrestling Championships held in Almaty, Kazakhstan. A few months later, she won one of the bronze medals in her event at the 2021 Poland Open held in Warsaw, Poland.
Islamova competed in the women's 50 kg event at the 2020 Summer Olympics held in Tokyo, Japan where she was eliminated in her first match by Lucía Yépez of Ecuador.


== Achievements ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Valentina Ivanovna Islamova Brik at United World Wrestling
Valentina Islamova-Brik at the International Wrestling Database
Valentina Ivanovna Islamova-Brik at Olympics.com
Valentina Islamova at Olympedia
Valentina Islamova at InterSportStats
Valentina Islamova at Olympic.kz

Elmsvale is a community of the Halifax Regional Municipality in the Canadian province of Nova Scotia in the Musquodoboit Valley.
The locality of Centre Musquodoboit is located within Elmsvale.


== References ==

The Uglysuit were an indie rock band from Oklahoma City. The lineup was made up of Israel Hindman (lead vocals, guitar), Kyle Mayfield (vocals, guitar, bass, drums), Crosby Bray (vocals, drums, guitar), Jonathan Martin (vocals, piano, organ, guitar), Colin Bray (vocals, guitar), and Dustin Maynord (bass, guitar).


== History ==
Since their formation in 2006 they were known for their genre-bending compositions that range from breezy indie pop, psychedelic folk, shoegaze, rock and hopeful lyrics. Sometimes they can be considered a jam band and have been compared to Phish. The All Music Guide called their debut "one of 2008's most promising records".


== Tours and appearances ==
According to Spinner, as of March 2010 the Uglysuit were currently writing "lots of new material" for their sophomore effort. Prior to playing two official showcases at SXSW 2010, one being for the ASCAP Kick-Off Party, they also performed at the Billions Showcase at Canadian Music Week in Toronto in early March.
In May 2010, they played 2 shows in Los Angeles, CA one at Hotel Café and the Viper Room before beginning on a Summer Tour of the Midwest United States and Northeastern United States with the first performance at the Summer Camp Music Festival at Three Sisters Park in Chillicothe, Illinois. They were scheduled to appear with The Black Keys, Slightly Stoopid, Blues Traveler, Widespread Panic at the Wakarusa Music and Camping Festival in Ozark, Arkansas.


== Breakup ==

After the summer of 2010 and multiple attempts at improving living conditions, Hindman decided a healthier music environment was required for a lasting career.  The band decided that the Uglysuit would disband. A new album was recorded prior to the breakup and was released June 14, 2011.


== Discography ==
The Uglysuit EP (2007)
The Uglysuit (2008)
Awwww, Shucks (2011)


== References ==

Rollingstone
http://www.touchandgorecords.com/bands/band.php?id=111


== External links ==
Rollingstone
http://www.touchandgorecords.com/bands/band.php?id=111
https://www.allmusic.com/album/r1402944/review
http://www.spinner.com/2010/03/08/sxsw-2010-the-uglysuit Archived 2012-04-03 at the Wayback Machine
http://www.ascap.com/eventsawards/events/sxsw/2010/
http://stickymagazine.com/recommendations/upcoming-shows/60-canadian-music-week-2010-preview Archived 2010-03-12 at the Wayback Machine
https://web.archive.org/web/20100329013946/http://www.summercampfestival.com/2010/theuglysuit

The Nantucket Beacon was an American weekly newspaper that was published on Nantucket Island from 1989 until 1996.


== History ==
The Nantucket Beacon was founded in 1989, by Nantucket developer Bruce Poor. The Beacon's first edition (Issue I, Volume 1) was dated 9 March 1989.
Six months after its founding it was sold to New Hampshire newspaper publisher,  Edward (Ted) Leach. Leach was the former owner and publisher of the Monadnock Ledger in Peterborough, New Hampshire. He was also the owner and publisher of the McCormick Messenger in McCormick, South Carolina.
There already was another Nantucket newspaper, the 170 yr.-old Inquirer and Mirror. Within months of Leach’s acquisition of the Beacon, the Inquirer and Mirror was sold to Ottaway Newspapers Inc. a division of Dow Jones.
Upon acquiring The Nantucket Beacon, Leach implemented a massive restructuring of all departments of the newspaper. Kurt Mayer was named editor. Leach, together with Mayer, General Manager Jenny Garneau, and a staff of talented writers, artists, computer experts, and sales personnel, guided the newspaper to both regional and national recognition.
Innovation became the hallmark of the Beacon including an email edition and a bi-weekly television program.
In 1994 the Beacon was awarded the General Excellence award from the New England Press Association (now called New England Newspaper and Press Association) as New England’s Weekly Newspaper of the Year. The following year, the National Newspaper Association recognized the Beacon as the top newspaper in its class in the nation. That same year the Beacon was again named New England's top weekly newspaper in the New England Press Association’s annual competition among its more than 300 member newspapers.
These accomplishments enabled the Beacon to attract an exceptionally talented pool of employees across all departments at the paper.
Late in 1995, Ottaway bought the Beacon from Leach with the condition that it keep the newspaper going for at least one year. At the end of the year, Ottaway shuttered the Beacon, thus closing a remarkable story of perseverance, innovation, and excellence.


== References ==

Dorothee Steffensky-Sölle (née Nipperdey; 1929–2003), known as Dorothee Sölle, was a German Lutheran liberation theologian who coined the term "Christofascism".


== Life and career ==
Sölle was born Dorothee Nipperdey on 30 September 1929 in Cologne, Germany. Her father was Professor of labour law Hans Carl Nipperdey, who would later become the first president of the West-German Federal Labour Court from 1954 to 1963. Sölle studied theology, philosophy, and literature at the University of Cologne, earning a doctorate with a thesis on the connections between theology and poetry. She taught briefly in Aachen before returning to Cologne as a university lecturer. She became active in politics, speaking out against the Vietnam War, the arms race of the Cold War, and injustices in the developing world. Notably, from 1968 to 1972 she organized the  weekly ecumenical Politisches Nachtgebet (political prayer night) taking place in the Antoniterkirche (Cologne). Those were sunday evening services which by means of prayers, performances and considerations of protest addressed contemporary issues such as the war in Vietnam/Laos/Campodia, authoritarian patterns in church, faith and public life. 

Between 1975 and 1987, she spent six months a year at Union Theological Seminary in New York City, where she was a professor of systematic theology. Although she never held a professorship in Germany, she received an honorary professorship from the University of Hamburg in 1994.
She wrote a large number of books, including Theology for Skeptics: Reflections on God (1968), The Silent Cry: Mysticism and Resistance (1997), and her autobiography Against the Wind: Memoir of a Radical Christian (1999). In Beyond Mere Obedience:  Reflections on a Christian Ethic for the Future she coined the term Christofascist to describe fundamentalists. Perhaps her best-known work in English has been Suffering, which offers a critique of "Christian masochism" and "Christian sadism". Sölle's critique is against the assumption that God is all-powerful and the cause of suffering; humans thus suffer for some greater purpose. Instead, God suffers and is powerless alongside us.  Humans are to struggle together against oppression, sexism, antisemitism, and other forms of authoritarianism.
Sölle was married twice and had four children. First, in 1954 she married the seven years older visual artist Dietrich Sölle, with whom she had three children before divorcing in 1964. In 1969, she married the former Benedictine priest Fulbert Steffensky, with whom she had her fourth child and with whom she organized the Politisches Nachtgebet. The 19th century Germany historian and university professor Thomas Nipperdey has been her brother.
Sölle died of a heart attack at a conference in Göppingen on 27 April 2003. She has been buried on the Nienstedten Cemetery in Hamburg.


== Theology ==
The idea of a God who was "in heaven in all its glory" while Auschwitz was organized was "unbearable" for Sölle. God has to be protected against such simplifications. For some people Sölle was a kind of prophet of Christianity, who abolished the separation of theological science and practice of life, while for others she was a heretic, whose theories couldn't be reconciled with the traditional understanding of God, and her ideas were therefore rejected as a theological cynicism.


== Publications ==
Sölle, Dorothee (1967). Christ the Representative: An Essay in Theology After the 'Death of God'. London: SCM Press.
——— (1970). Beyond Mere Obedience: Reflections on a Christian Ethic for the Future. Minneapolis: Augsburg.
——— (1974). Political Theology. Philadelphia, PA: Fortress Press. ISBN 0-8006-1065-2.
——— (1975). Suffering. Philadelphia, PA: Fortress Press. ISBN 0-8006-0419-9.
——— (1978). Death by Bread Alone: Texts and Reflections on Religious Experience. Philadelphia, PA: Fortress Press. ISBN 0-8006-0514-4.
——— (1981). Choosing Life. Philadelphia, PA: Fortress Press. ISBN 0-8006-0667-1.
——— (1983). Of war and Love. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books. ISBN 0-88344-350-3.
——— (1983). The Arms Race Kills Even Without War. Philadelphia, PA: Fortress Press. ISBN 0-8006-1701-0.
——— (1984). The Strength of the Weak: Toward a Christian Feminist Identity. Philadelphia, PA: Fortress Press. ISBN 0-664-24623-0.
———; Cloyes, Shirley A. (1984). To Work and to Love: A Theology of Creation. Philadelphia, PA: Fortress Press. ISBN 0-8006-1782-7.
———; Beyers Naudé, C. F. (1986). Hope for Faith: A Conversation. Geneva: WCC Publications. ISBN 2-8254-0860-3.
——— (1990). The Window of Vulnerability: A Political Spirituality. Minneapolis: Fortress Press. ISBN 0-8006-2432-7.
——— (1990). Thinking About God: An Introduction to Theology. London: SCM Press. ISBN 0-334-02476-5.
——— (1993). On Earth as in Heaven: A Liberation Spirituality of Sharing. Louisville, KY: Westminster John Knox Press. ISBN 0-664-25494-2.
——— (1993). Stations of the Cross: A Latin American Pilgrimage. Minneapolis: Fortress Press. ISBN 0-8006-2688-5.
——— (1995). Theology for Skeptics: Reflections on God. Minneapolis: Fortress Press. ISBN 0-8006-2788-1.
——— (1999). Against the Wind: Memoir of a Radical Christian. Minneapolis: Fortress Press. ISBN 0-8006-3079-3.
——— (2001). The Silent Cry: Mysticism and Resistance. Minneapolis: Fortress Press. ISBN 0-8006-3266-4.
——— (2007). The Mystery of Death. Translated by Lukens-Rumscheidt, Nancy; Lukens-Rumscheidt, Martin. Minneapolis: Fortress Press.
For publications in German language see de:Dorothee Sölle#Literatur


== Texts in music ==
The musician Sergio Pinto converted Sölle's poems Credo für die Erde and Ich dein Baum, into musical compositions which were published by Verlag in 2008 under the title entwurf. The CD recording was performed by the band Grupo Sal.
The composer Ludger Stühlmeyer converted Sölle's poems Kreuzigen and Atem Gottes hauch mich an into musical compositions as well. The vocal and organ arrangements were commissioned by a circle of friends of the Evangelische Akademie Tutzing; the work was first performed in April 2013 and included a reading by Ursula Baltz-Otto during a commemoration of the 10th anniversary of the death of Dorothee Sölle.


== See also ==
Johann Baptist Metz


== Notes ==


== References ==


=== Footnotes ===


=== Bibliography ===


== Further reading ==

Li You (李祐) (died June 22, 829), courtesy name Qingzhi (慶之), was a general of the Chinese Tang dynasty. He started his career serving under the warlord Wu Yuanji but, after his capture by the imperial general Li Su in Li Su's campaign against Wu, became instrumental in Li Su's victory over Wu. He subsequently served the imperial government until his death immediately following his campaign against the warlord Li Tongjie.


== Background and service under Wu Yuanji ==
Little is known about Li You's background, including when he was born or where his family was from. It is known that he came to serve as an officer under Wu Yuanji, who controlled Zhangyi Circuit (彰義, headquartered in modern Zhumadian, Henan), and fought in Wu's campaign of resistance against the imperial government after the imperial government refused to sanction Wu Yuanji's takeover of the circuit after the death of his father Wu Shaoyang in 814. It was said that Li You was fierce in battle, and that the imperial forces feared him. He was also said to have inflicted many casualties on the imperial forces during the campaign.


== Participation in Wu Yuanji's defeat ==
By 817, one of the imperially-controlled circuits that was near Zhangyi and which thus continuously battled Zhangyi forces in the campaign, Tangsuideng Circuit (唐隨鄧, headquartered in modern Zhumadian as well), had seen two military governors (jiedushi)—Gao Xiayu (高霞寓) and Yuan Zi—defeated by Zhangyi forces in rapid succession; in response, then-reigning Emperor Xianzong commissioned the less-known general Li Su as Tangsuideng's military governor. One of Li Su's tactics, while battling Zhangyi forces, was to capture Zhangyi officers that he considered capable, endearing them, and retaining them on his staff so that he could learn intelligence about Zhangyi. After he first captured Ding Shiliang (丁士良), Ding suggested that if he targeted and captured Chen Guangqia (陳光洽), the strategist for the key Zhangyi officer Wu Xiulin (吳秀琳), Wu would surrender—and after Ding captured Chen, Wu indeed surrendered. Li Su endeared himself to Wu and asked for Wu's input on how to capture Zhangyi's capital Cai Prefecture (蔡州). Wu responded, "If you, Lord, want to capture Cai Prefecture, you need Li You. I, Wu Xiulin, am not sufficiently capable."
Li Su thereafter targeted Li You and, after setting a trap for Li You with 300 cavalry soldiers while engaging him, Li Su's officer Shi Yongcheng (史用誠) was in fact able to capture Li You. Li Su's soldiers, resentful at how many casualties Li You had inflicted on them, demanded that Li You be put to death, but Li Su resisted the call and treated Li You with respect, causing Li You to be touched. It was said that when discussing tactics about how to capture Cai Prefecture, Li Su would discuss only with Li You and a fellow Zhangyi captive officer, Li Zhongyi (李忠義). The other officers feared that Li You would, at least meetings turn against Li Su and assassinate him, but Li Su did not heed their warnings. Thereafter, there were reports to Emperor Xianzong by those jealous of Li You that Li You must have been plotting still with the Zhangyi rebels, and there were renewed calls for Li You's execution. Li Su, after holding Li You and weeping, publicly declared that he would send Li You to Emperor Xianzong for Emperor Xianzong to execute him—but sent a secret petition to Emperor Xianzong, stating that if Li You were executed, the campaign would fail. Emperor Xianzong, after reviewing the petition, released Li You and returned him to Li Su. Li Su subsequently made Li You his guard commander
Li You thereafter informed Li Su that Zhangyi's elite forces were all stationed at Huiqu (洄曲, in modern Luohe, Henan), under the command of the officer Dong Chongzhi (董重質), and that Cai Prefecture itself was defended by old or weakened soldiers. He suggested that a surprise attack be made on Cai Prefecture itself to capture it, before the Huiqu forces would have any chance to react. After receiving approval from the chancellor Pei Du, whom Emperor Xianzong had put in charge overseeing the operations against Zhangyi, Li Su launched his surprise attack in winter 817. With Li You and Li Zhongyi serving as his forward commanders, he quickly reached Cai Prefecture during a winter storm, and with little resistance captured the city, seizing Wu Yuanji. The remaining Zhangyi forces under Dong surrendered, and the campaign was over. For his contributions during the campaign, Li You was made a general of the imperial guards.


== Between the campaigns against Wu Yuanji and against Li Tongjie ==
Li You was subsequently made the military governor of Xiasui Circuit (夏綏, headquartered in modern Yulin, Shaanxi) as well as the prefect of its capital Xia Prefecture (夏州). In 824, by which time Emperor Xianzong's grandson Emperor Jingzong was emperor, Li You was recalled to the capital Chang'an to serve as a general of the imperial guards. When he got to Chang'an, he made a tribute of 150 horses to Emperor Jingzong. The imperial censor Wen Zao (溫造) submitted an accusation that the tribute was improper and requested that Li You be arrested. Emperor Jingzong ordered that no actions be taken against Li You, but Li You still commented to his friends, "My heart was not at all shaken when I entered Cai Prefecture at midnight to capture Wu Yuanji, but now my gall falls before Censor Wen." Thereafter, because there was a Tufan incursion, Li You was sent to the front to serve as the military governor of Jingyuan Circuit (涇原, headquartered in modern Pingliang, Gansu).


== Campaign against Li Tongjie ==
As of 828, by which time Emperor Jingzong's younger brother Emperor Wenzong was emperor, the imperial forces were locked into a campaign against Li Tongjie, who had seized control of Henghai Circuit (橫海, headquartered in modern Cangzhou, Hebei) after the death of his father Li Quanlüe (李全略), the previous military governor. During the campaign, the imperial government had named a number of generals as military governors for Henghai, but each of whom either died during the campaign or was removed for other reasons. In winter 828, after the last of those, Fu Liangbi (傅良弼), died on the way to the Henghai front, Li You was named the military governor of Henghai and sent to the front.
In spring 829, when 3,000 Yicheng Circuit (義成, headquartered in modern Anyang, Henan) soldiers, who were fighting Henghai forces, suddenly mutinied and deserted, Li You intercepted them and slaughtered them. He subsequently defeated Li Tongjie in a battle and then attacked one of Henghai's prefectures, De Prefecture (德州, in modern Dezhou, Shandong). He quickly captured De Prefecture, and with Henghai's capital Cang Prefecture (滄州) under attack by a general under imperial orders, Li Zaiyi the military governor of Lulong Circuit (盧龍, headquartered in modern Beijing), the De Prefecture soldiers fled to Zhen Prefecture (鎮州, in modern Shijiazhuang, Hebei), the headquarters of Li Tongjie's ally Wang Tingcou the military governor of Chengde Circuit (成德).
Li Tongjie, knowing that his defeat was at hand, sent messengers to Li You, offering to surrender. Li You agreed and submitted Li Tongjie's offer to surrender to the imperial government, while sending his officer Wan Hong (萬洪) to Cang Prefecture to take control of the city from Li Tongjie. The imperial officer Bo Qi (柏耆) was sent to Cang Prefecture to comfort the region, but Bo, fearing that Li Tongjie was trying to trick imperial forces, led several hundred cavalry soldiers himself into Cang Prefecture. He found an excuse to kill Wan, and then had Li Tongjie and his families arrested and bound, to be delivered to Chang'an. On the way of delivering Li Tongjie to Chang'an, he heard rumors that Wang was intending to try to rescue Li Tongjie, so he beheaded Li Tongjie and delivered just the head to Chang'an.
By this point, Li You was ill, and when he heard the news of Wan's death, he was so shocked that his conditions fell worse. Meanwhile, various generals also submitted accusations against Bo, for having killed Wan for no reason and for appearing to want to take the credits of defeating Li Tongjie for himself. Emperor Wenzong commented, "If Li You dies, it is Bo Qi who kills him!" When Li You did die on June 22, Emperor Wenzong ordered Bo to commit suicide.


== Notes and references ==

Old Book of Tang, vol. 161.
New Book of Tang, vol. 214.
Zizhi Tongjian, vols. 240, 243, 244.

Chinnavar is a 1992 Indian Tamil-language film written and directed by Gangai Amaran. The film stars Prabhu, Chandrasekhar and Kasthuri. It was released on 24 April 1992.


== Plot ==

Muthu and Veerasamy are fishermen and they fish together in the same boat. Muthu lives with his mother. Veerasamy loves to drink a lot of alcohol and he has a sister, Meena who is in love with Muthu. Muthu decides to marry his carefree friend Veerasamy to Ponni. In a financial trouble, Veerasamy joins Kumar's boat, Kumar is a rich fishermen union leader. Veerasamy realises that Meena is in love with Muthu and he promises Muthu his sister's hand. Meanwhile, Kumar asks Veerasamy to marry Meena, and compelled by his wife, Veerasamy accepts. Hopeless, Meena tied to herself a Thaali, says to Veerasamy that Muthu marries her and Muthu confirms to save her honour. Veerasamy gets angry but when Muthu says the truth, he apologises to him. Kumar beats Muthu's mother and kidnaps Meena, he arranges a forced marriage between him and Meena. Muthu saves her and he finally marries her with his best friend's blessing.


== Cast ==


== Soundtrack ==
The soundtrack was composed by Ilaiyaraaja, with lyrics written by the director himself, Gangai Amaran. The song "Andhiyile Vaanam" is set in Pahadi raga. It became popular and was featured in the Tamil film Super Deluxe (2019).


== Critical reception ==
The Indian Express wrote, "Storytelling takes the back seat, and charming cinematography and other fancy works rule the roast in Chinnavar".


== References ==


== External links ==
Chinnavar at IMDb 
Chinnavar at Rotten Tomatoes

Anapistula seychellensis is a species of araneomorph spider that is endemic to the islands of Silhouette, Praslin and Curieuse in the Seychelles. It was first described by Michael Saaristo in 1996. It can be found in woodland habitats in leaf litter. It is threatened by habitat degradation caused by invasive plant species, especially Cinnamomum verum.


== References ==

Aydıncık is a village in the Elazığ District of Elazığ Province in Turkey. Its population is 352 (2021). The village is populated by Kurds of the Bahtiyar, Bermaz, Lolan, Pilvenk and Şêx Mehmedan tribes.


== References ==

The Test Methods Regulation is a Regulation (European Union) No. 440/2008 of May 30, 2008.  It, and its subsequent amendments, define tests, testing of chemicals for the REACH Regulation.  They are based on the OECD Guidelines for the Testing of Chemicals.


== External links ==
Council Regulation (EC) No 440/2008 of 30 May 2008 laying down test methods pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH)
https://web.archive.org/web/20110928164636/http://ihcp.jrc.ec.europa.eu/our_activities/alt-animal-testing/test_method_reg/

The equestrian statue of the Duke of Wellington is an outdoor sculpture of Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, a British soldier and statesman, located at the Royal Exchange in London. It overlooks Bank junction in the historic City of London. The sculptor was Francis Leggatt Chantrey. The statue commemorates Wellington's assistance to the City of London in ensuring that a bill was passed to allow the rebuilding of London Bridge.
The base of the statue is a ventilation shaft for Bank and Monument stations on the London Underground. It was converted during expansion of Bank station in 1994.


== History ==
While sitting for a later portrait by Charles Robert Leslie, Wellington recalled that Chantrey had told him he had a square head. After Chantrey's sudden death his studio assistant Henry Weekes completed the sculpture.
Wellington attended the unveiling of his statue on 18 June 1844. The date was chosen to commemorate the Battle of Waterloo, where Wellington led an allied army to victory against Napoleon, in 1815. Frederick Augustus II, King of Saxony, who was in London visiting Queen Victoria, also attended the unveiling.


== Description ==

The equestrian statue was erected to show the city's gratitude for Wellington's help in assisting the passage of the London Bridge Approaches Act 1827. This Act led to the creation of King William Street.
"Wellington" is inscribed on each side of the plinth; on its ends is the inscription "Erected June 18, 1844". A brass plaque at the plinth's base reads:

 On 19th July 1838 the Court of Common Council of the City of London agreed to a contribution of £500 toward the cost of the above statue of the Duke of Wellington in appreciation of his efforts in assisting the passage of the London Bridge Approaches Act 1827. This Act led to the creation of King William Street. The government donated the metal, which is bronze from captured enemy cannon melted down after the Battle of Waterloo, and valued at the time at £1500. The total cost of the statue was £9000. The remainder being raised by public subscription.
The sculptor, Sir Francis Chantrey (1781 to 1841), was commissioned in 1838 but died before the work was completed. It was finished by his assistant Henry Weekes (1807 to 1877).
The Lord Mayor, William Magnay, unveiled the statue on 18th June 1844, the anniversary of Waterloo, in the presence of his guest the King of Saxony.

Adjoining the statue, a piece of granite from London Bridge (1825 to 1967) has been set into the pavement by the Corporation of London. The elevational stonework from the same bridge was re-erected over the Colorado River in Lake Havasu City, Arizona, USA, in 1971.


== References ==


== External links ==

 Media related to Equestrian statue of the Duke of Wellington, Royal Exchange, London at Wikimedia Commons

Dera Baba Nanak is a sub-district (tehsil) in Gurdaspur district in Punjab, India. Its headquarters is in Dera Baba Nanak city. It is situated in the western part of the district, along the Indo-Pakistani border. It was created in 1995. The Kartarpur corridor is situated there, that connects Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib on the other side of the international border.


== History ==
During the 1971 Indo-Pakistan war, some military action was seen in the area around Kasowal, near Dera Baba Nanak city. This battle was won by Indian army. In this battle, 32 soldiers were killed and 3 wounded on the Indian side. On the Pakistani side, 34 soldiers were killed, 1 wounded and 26 were missing or captured. Three soldiers who participated in this battle were awarded  Maha Vir Chakras (MVCs).


== Demographics ==
According to the 2011 census, Dera Baba Nanak sub-district has a total population of 124,295. Of these, 65,662 were males and 58,633 were females. The population of children below the age of 6 was 15,064, of which 8,338 were males and 6,716 were females. The population of Scheduled castes was 16,761, of which 8,775 were males and 7,986 were females. The number of persons who were literate were 80,449, of which 45,133 were males and 35,316 were females.


=== Religion ===
The table below shows the population by religion of Dera Baba Nanak sub-district and their gender ratio, as of 2011 census.

The table below shows the absolute number of religious communities by urban and rural areas.


== Notable places ==
Gurudwara Chola Sahib, Dera Baba Nanak
Kartarpur corridor
Shri Bawa Lal Dayal temple, Dhianpur


== Notable people ==
Guru Randhawa, a Punjabi singer, songwriter and composer
Sujan Singh, a Punjabi story writer


== References ==

The following is a list of fictional astronauts from recent times, using the Space Shuttle, the International Space Station and other spaceflight technologies, as depicted in works released between 2010 and 2029.


== 2010–2019 ==


== 2020–2029 ==


== Notes ==


== References ==

Ramzi Aburedwan (Arabic:رمزي أبو رضوان, born 1979) is a Palestinian composer, arranger, educator; and viola and buzuq player. He is the founder of Ensemble Dal’Ouna and the Palestine National Ensemble of Arabic Music. He founded the al Kamandjâti music centre and has collaborated with international and renowned musicians. He first studied at the Edward Said National Conservatory of Music and then in the Regional Conservatory of Angers (France). Documentaries have been made of his life, including Its Not a Gun (2005) and Just Play (2012). He is the main subject of the book Children of the Stone: The Power of Music in a Hard Land by Sandy Tolan (2015).


== Biography ==
Aburedwan was born in Bethlehem in 1979 and raised in the Am'ari refugee camp in Ramallah. As an eight-year-old he participated in the first intifada and became an inspiration due to a widely circulated photograph showing him poised to throw a stone at a tank. He lost a brother, a cousin, and many of his friends during the intifada.
In October 2002 he founded Al Kamandjâti ("the violinist") Association, which aims to bring classical music to impoverished Palestinian children.
In 2010 he founded the Palestine National Ensemble of Arabic Music, a 30-member ensemble which performs classical Arabic music and original compositions. In 2012 he released his solo album, Reflections of Palestine, described by David Maine as folk-inflected instrumental music.


== The different projects of Ramzi Aburedwan ==


=== The Palestine National Ensemble for Arabic Music (PNEAM) ===
Created in 2010 by Aburedwan, who also serves as its musical director, The Palestine National Ensemble for Arabic Music (PNEAM) is playing classical Arab musical heritage in Palestine. The 25-30 members of the ensemble, through live performances, renders classical Arabic music traditions accessible to Palestinian audiences of all walks of life.


=== Dal'Ouna Ensemble ===
Ramzi founded Dal’Ouna in 2000, while living in Angers, thus laying the base for a Franco-Arab fusion band. Dal’ouna’s core members include Ramzi on bouzouq and viola, Ziad Ben Youssef (Tunisia/France) on oud and percussion, Edwin Buger (ex-Yugoslavia/France) on accordion and keys, and Tareq Rentisi (Palestine) on percussion. The ensemble has released four albums. The new repertoire Dal'Ouna is paying tribute to Ramzi's ancestors, the Natufians.


=== Al Manara Ensemble ===
Al Manara (meaning The Beacon) is a Belgian-Palestinian ensemble built between Aburedwan and the Belgian pianist, conductor and composer Éloi Baudimont. The ensemble has toured France, Belgium and Palestine and released one CD.


=== Jerusalem Sufi Ensemble ===
The Jerusalem Sufi Ensemble is dedicated to the documentation and revival of Sufi traditions. The voice-centered tradition is here enhanced by an ensemble that includes bouzouq, oud, qanun, nay and percussion.The ensemble’s current performance project, titled “Forgiveness,” explores an international body of Sufi poetry that includes Mansur Al-Hallaj (Persia), Muhammed Ibn-Arabi (Andalusia), Jalal Ad-Din Muhammad Rumi (Persia), Imam Al-Busiri (Morocco & Egypt), Baha-ud-Din Naqshband Bukhari (Bukhara) and Ibn Al-Farid (Syria & Egypt).


=== Arab-Andalusian Orchestra from Anjou ===
Conducted by Aburedwan, the Arab-Andalusian Orchestra is made up of artists from all over Anjou, of all ages. They have a repertoire ranging from the Levant (Middle East) to Eastern Europe via Africa and Asia.  The themes addressed revolve around the Andalusian lyrical imagination, and are conveyed through courtly love, wine, and gardens.


=== Other projects ===
Aburedwan has composed and arranged for orchestra for the World Sacred music festival of Fes under the artistic direction of Alain Weber in 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2022. 
Aburedwan is also the music director of two performances presented at the Philharmonie of Paris: "Tribute to the Great Divas", featuring songs from Umm Kulthum, Fairuz, Asmahan, Leila Mourad, Mayada Alhenawy, Warda al Djazaïra, and "Ma valise est mon pays", tribute to the poet Mahmoud Darwish with on stage Kamilya Jubran, Rodolphe Burger and Rachida Brakni.


== Discography ==
Reflections of Palestine (2012)
Marvels of the Arab world (Live) (2018)


== Further reading ==
S. Tolan, Children of the Stone:The Power of Music in a Hard Land, Bloomsbury, 2015. ISBN 9781608198139


== References ==


== Works cited ==
Belkind, Nili (2014). Music in Conflict: Palestine, Israel, and the Politics of Aesthetic Production (Thesis). Columbia University.


== External links ==
Official site
Official al Kamandjâti site
Photograph of Ramzi as an eight-year-old Archived 2018-09-15 at the Wayback Machine
Palestine National Ensemble of Arabic Music
Youtube channel

Willisburg Lake is a 126-acre (0.51 km2) reservoir in Washington County, Kentucky. It was created in 1969.
Access Off Hwy. KY 555 At Boat Docks


== References ==


== External links ==
"Willisburg Lake". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey, United States Department of the Interior. Retrieved May 4, 2009.

Nancy K. Nichols (born 1942) is an applied mathematician and numerical analyst whose research concerns numerical methods for differential equations, linear algebra, and control theory, and data assimilation. She is a professor in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of Reading.
In 2012, a conference was held at Reading in honour of Nichols' 70th  birthday.
Nichols was elected as a Fellow of the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics in 2014, "for contributions to the numerical analysis of systems, control, and data assimilation".


== References ==


== External links ==
Nancy K. Nichols publications indexed by Google Scholar

Rautanen (from Finnish rauta ("iron") + the surname-forming suffix -nen) is a Finnish family name. Notable people with the surname include:

Joni Rautanen (born 1986), Finnish sprinter
Juho Rautanen (born 1997), Finnish ice hockey player
Martti Rautanen (1845–1926), Finnish Lutheran missionary
Tuula Rautanen (born 1942), Finnish sprinter

Vincenzo Bocciarelli (born February 22, 1972) is an Italian actor, painter, and film producer. He is currently artistic director of the theatres of Siena.


== Early life ==
He was born in Bozzolo in a small town in the province of Mantua. A few months after his birth, his family moved to Siena, where his academic and artistic training took place, attending the Duccio di Buoninsegna Art Institute and at the same time the Piccolo Teatro di Siena where, at only fifteen, he made his debut; first in Gl'innamorati by Carlo Goldoni in the role of Fulgenzio and then in Phaedra by Seneca the Younger in the role of Ippolito, and then in Vigilanza Stretta by Jean Genet.


== Career ==
After graduating in 1993 and receiving the Hystrio de Vocation Prize at Montegrotto Terme by Vittorio Gassman, on behalf of the Histryo theatre magazine, he was noticed by Glauco Mauri who chose him as his co-star in the role of Karl Van Beethoven in the show Quaderni di conversazione by Ludwig van Beethoven and for the comedy Tutto per bene by Luigi Pirandello.  He continued with the Mauri company, where he played the messenger in Oedipus Rex by Sophocles. He also played Ariel in The Tempest and Edgar in King Lear, both written by William Shakespeare.


== Filmography ==


=== Film ===
Le grandi dame di casa d'Este (2004)
E ridendo l'uccise (2005)
The Inquiry (2006)
Cartoline da Roma (2008)
Alba (2009)
Nirakazhcha (2010)
La strada dei colori (2012)
La scuola più bella del mondo (2014)
Mission Possible (2018)
Red Land (Rosso Istria) (2018)
Professor Dinkan
The dog christmas
Lockdownlove.It (2021)


== References ==

Jan Wyck (29 October 1645 – 17 May 1702), also known as Jan Wiyck or Jan Wick, was a Dutch Baroque painter, best known for his works on military subjects. There are over 150 of his works known to be in existence.
In an era when French artists dominated the genre, the arrival of Wyck and other Dutch and Flemish artists in Great Britain from 1660 onwards provided the catalyst for the development of military and naval art in Britain. Like other painters from the Low Countries such as Dirk Maas, Peter Tillemans and William van de Velde, Wyck moved to England and worked there throughout his life, often under royal patronage, producing many fine works of battle paintings, portraits, hunting scenes and landscapes as well as advancing the development of British art through teaching.


== Early life ==

Jan Wyck was born on 29 October 1652, in Haarlem, then part of the Dutch Republic. The son of Thomas Wyck (1616-1677), also a  Dutch painter, it is assumed that his father taught him to paint, although little is actually known of his early life. His father had spent much of the 1630s in Rome, refining an Italianate style, which can be seen in the works of both father and son.
It appears likely that at a fairly young age he and his father moved to England during the reign of Charles II of England, possibly in 1664. It also seems likely that they were in London at the time of the Great Fire of London, as his father created one of the last sketches of Old St Paul's Cathedral in its ruined state before it was knocked down to create the new St Paul's Cathedral, as well as night scenes of the fire itself.
The first documented reference to Jan Wyck comes from the sessions of the London court of the Painter-Stainers' Company where, on 17 June 1674, he is recorded as promising to pay both his own and his father's quarterly fees. At this hearing he also promised to soon deliver his 'proofe piece'. However his father had returned to Haarlem within a year, and died less than two and a half years later on 19 August 1677.
Although the details of his first marriage are unknown, Jan Wyck was married for a second time on 22 November 1676 with his certificate stating: 'Jan Wick of St Paul's Covent Garden, gent., widower, about 31 ...'. The reference to him being a widower at the age of 24 indicates he was first married at a young age. His second wife was a 19-year-old English woman called Anne Skinner of St Martin-in-the-fields. They had four children between 1678 and 1683, but none of them survived their early childhood.
Following the death of Anne in 1687, he remarried for the third time to a Dutch woman by the name of Elizabeth Holomberg in 1688. They moved into a new home in Mortlake, and between 1689 and 1693 they had two sons (John, b.1689 and William, b.1691) and a daughter (Elizabeth, b. 1693) together. His wife Elizabeth died giving birth to their daughter.


== Art career ==

As the son of a fairly successful artist, it is likely Wyck was painting and drawing from a young age. Enjoying the patronage of the Duke of Ormond Wyck was known as the best landscape painter in London by 1686. By the time William III of England ascended to the throne, Wyck was also enjoying the patronage of the Duke of Monmouth. He painted a portrait of Monmouth on horseback in the 1670s, as well as many depictions of him in battle, such as at the Siege of Maastricht in 1673, and at the Battle of Bothwell Bridge in 1679.
Wyck was placed upon the committee of Acting Painters of the Painter-Stainers' Company on 24 November 1680, which was a recognition of his rising talent.
He first made a public name for himself when he accompanied fellow Dutch painter Dirk Maas to Ireland to paint the campaigns of William III. Maas had received a commission from King William to paint the Battle of the Boyne, and, although it is not known if he was also present at the battle, Wyck also painted many scenes from the battle. Throughout the 1690s, he is known to have created at least half a dozen oils of the battle, as well as countless battle pieces, encampments and equestrian portraits of soldiers before battle.
William was impressed with his work, and commissioned him to paint himself, which he did many times, often in equestrian poses. William had soon also called upon Wyck to depict countless scenes of his campaigns throughout the Low Countries during the Nine Years' War (also known as King William's War), including the Siege of Namur, and the Siege of Naarden.
Other scenes he painted include the Siege of Derry (1689), and the horse and battle portion of Godfrey Kneller's famous portrait of the Duke of Schomberg, who had been killed at the Battle of the Boyne.
Wyck's works are notable for their flair and colour, as well as the excellent attention to detail. He highlights features such as flourishing sabres, firing muskets, flaring horses nostrils and cannons spouting flames. But most importantly he brought the viewer into the battle at a time when the prevailing trend was to present birds-eye views over a battle, showing disposition and locations of troop formations. He personalised the soldiers, and created an atmospheric presentation of the scenes depicted. He also celebrated notable commanders and recognisable figures within his works, a feature that made him popular with those commissioning works.


== Later life ==
Jan Wyck began to school young British artists whilst continuing to work on his own projects, and became highly influential in the development of British art in the period, particularly in the genre of battle painting. One of his principal students that went on to produce great works of national importance was John Wootton, who exemplified British equestrian and military art in the early eighteenth century. Another student was the amateur painter Sir Martin Beckman and Matthias Read. Read moved to Whitehaven and became known as the "Father of Cumbrian Painting".
Jan Wyck died at his family home in Mortlake, Surrey, on 17 May 1702, aged 56.


== Known works ==
Lieutenant and Lieutenant-Colonel Randolph Egerton MP (d. 1681), the King’s Troop of Horse Guards, c1672 (in the collection of the National Army Museum, London)
James Scott, Duke of Monmouth and Buccleuch, 1675 (in the collection of the National Portrait Gallery (London))
William III leading his troops at the Battle of Namur, 1690s? (in private ownership; sold at Christie's auction in 2008 for €6,250 ($8,020))
William III Landing at Brixham, Torbay, 5 November 1688, 1688, (in the collection of the National Maritime Museum, London)
King William III, 1688 (in the Government Art Collection)
King William III on horseback, 1690 (in the Government Art Collection)
A cavalry skirmish, 1680s?, (in the collection of the Courtauld Institute, London)
Cavalry Battle, 1680s?, (in the collection of the Courtauld Institute, London)
A river landscape with travelers bathing, by a village
A battle scene
A prospect of Whitehaven, 1686 (in the collection of Lord Cavendish, Holker Hall)
The Battle of the Boyne, 1690 (in the collection of the National Army Museum, London)
King William III and his army at the Siege of Namur, 1695 (in the collection of the National Army Museum, London)
The battle of the Boyne, prior to the death of the Duke of Schomberg before William III, 1690 (in private ownership; sold at Whyte's auction in 2008 for an undisclosed amount)
Stag hunting beside a river, 1690s, (unsold at Christie's auction in 2008)
A race meeting on Newmarket Heath, unknown, (in private ownership; sold at Sotheby's auction in 2002 for an undisclosed amount)
A huntsman with a hare and hounds above Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire, signed; sold Sotheby's 1986.
Hunting party, said to be the Duc de Chartres in an extensive landscape, unknown (in private ownership; sold at Sotheby's auction in 1994 for an undisclosed amount)
An elegant hunting party resting under a tree, a river and a village beyond
An Extensive Landscape with an Army Fording a River, Said to be Louis XIV Crossing the Rhine, 1692 (in the Royal Collection)
A Cavalry Battle In a Valley Beneath a Fortified City
Horse Guards Parade, 1690s, (in the private collection of Ackermann and Johnson Ltd)
Italianate Landscape with Town and Waterfall, 1680s? (in the collection of Tate Gallery, London)
A Fortified Village in a Rocky Landscape, 1680s? (in the collection of Tate Gallery, London)
A Rocky Landscape with Bridge and Cottage, 1680s? (in the collection of Tate Gallery, London)
Defeat of the Moors by the British Garrison of Tangier, 27 October 1680, 1680s? (in the collection of National Museums Scotland, Edinburgh)


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Henry Ford, Ten Thousand Questions Answered: A Popular Dictionary of Fine Art, 2003
Peter Harbison, Ireland's Treasures, 2004
Peter Harrington, British Artists and War: The Face of Battle in Paintings and Prints, 1700-1914, 1993
Peter Harrington, "Images of the Boyne," The Irish Sword, Vol. XVIII, No. 70, Winter 1990, pp. 57–61
Haldane Macfall, A History of Painting: The Dutch Genius Part Five, 2004
Haldane Macfall, A History of Painting: The Modern Genius Part Eight, 2004
John Rothenstein, An Introduction to English Painting, 2002
Geraldine Stout, Newgrange and the Bend of the Boyne, 2002
Louis Viardot, A Brief History Of The Painters Of All Schools, 2007


== External links ==

50 artworks by or after Jan Wyck at the Art UK site
Artfact.com
Oxford Dictionary of Biography

Olivancillaria carcellesi is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Olividae, the olives.


== Description ==
The length of the shell varies from 25 mm to 55 mm.


== Distribution ==
This species occurs in the Atlantic Ocean from Brazil to Argentina.


== References ==

Thome, J. W. 1966. Una nova Olivancillaria (Gastropoda, Olividae) nas Praias do Rio Grande do Sul, Brasil. Papéis Avulsos do Departamento de Zoologia, São Paulo 19: 163–168.
Teso V. & Pastorino G. (2011) A revision of the genus Olivancillaria (Mollusca: Olividae) from the southwestern Atlantic. Zootaxa 2889: 1–34.


== External links ==
Gastyropods.com: Olivancillaria carcellesi

The Ferdinand Bordewijk Prize (Dutch: F. Bordewijk-prijs) is a literary award, presented annually by the Jan Campert Foundation to the author of the best Dutch prose book. The prize was established in 1948 as the Vijverberg Prize, before being named after the Dutch author Ferdinand Bordewijk in 1979. As of 2024 the prize includes a cash prize of €6000. 


== Winners ==
The winners include:


=== Vijverberg Prize ===
1948 - Jo Boer for Kruis of munt
1949 - not awarded
1950 - Josepha Mendels for Als wind en rook
1951 - Theun de Vries for  Anna Casparii of Het heimwee
1953 - Albert Helman for  De laaiende stilte
1954 - Max Croiset for the play Amphitryon
1955 - not awarded
1956 - Albert van der Hoogte for Het laatste uur
1957 - not awarded
1958 - Marga Minco for Het bittere kruid
1959 - Jos. Panhuijsen for Wandel in het water
1960 - not awarded
1961 - Boeli van Leeuwen for De rots der struikeling
1962 - J.W. Holsbergen for De handschoenen van het verraad
1963 - Harry Mulisch for De zaak 40/61
1964 - Jacques Hamelink for Het plantaardig bewind
1965 - Alfred Kossmann for De smaak van groene kaas
1966 - Willem Frederik Hermans for Beyond Sleep (Nooit meer slapen) (not accepted)
1967 - Jeroen Brouwers for Joris Ockeloen en het wachten
1968 - Geert van Beek for De steek van een schorpioen
1969 - Ivo Michiels for Orchis militaris
1970 - Jaap Harten for Garbo en de broeders Grimm
1971 - Bert Schierbeek for Inspraak

1972 - Anton Koolhaas for Blaffen zonder onraad
1973 - Kees Simhoffer for Een geile gifkikker
1974 - Dirkje Kuik (William D. Kuik) for De held van het potspel
1975 - Daniël Robberechts for Praag schrijven
1976 - Adriaan van der Veen for In liefdesnaam
1977 - J. Bernlef for De man in het midden
1978 - F.B. Hotz for Ernstvuurwerk


=== Ferdinand Bordewijk Prize ===
1979 - Willem Brakman for Zes subtiele verhalen
1980 - Oek de Jong for Opwaaiende zomerjurken
1981 - Cees Nooteboom for Rituals (Rituelen)
1982 - F. Springer for Bougainville
1983 - Willem G. van Maanen for Het nichtje van Mozart
1984 - Armando for Machthebbers
1985 - Maarten Biesheuvel for Reis door mijn kamer
1986 - A.F.Th. van der Heijden for De gevarendriehoek
1987 - Frans Kellendonk for Mystiek lichaam
1988 - Hermine de Graaf for De regels van het huis
1989 - Jeroen Brouwers for De zondvloed
1990 - Leo Pleysier for Wit is altijd schoon
1991 - Jan Siebelink for De overkant van de rivier
1992 - Jacq Firmin Vogelaar for De dood als meisje van acht
1993 - Robert Anker for De terugkeer van kapitein Rob
1994 - Louis Ferron for De walsenkoning
1995 - Nicolaas Matsier for Gesloten huis
1996 - Wessel te Gussinklo for De opdracht
1997 - J.J. Voskuil for Meneer Beerta en Vuile handen
1998 - Helga Ruebsamen for Het lied en de waarheid
1999 - Gijs IJlander for Twee harten op een schotel
2000 - Peter Verhelst for Tongkat; Een verhalenbordeel
2001 - Kees van Beijnum for De oesters van Nam Kee
2002 - Stefan Hertmans for Als op de eerste dag
2003 - L.H. Wiener for Nestor
2004 - Arnon Grunberg for De asielzoeker
2005 - Paul Verhaeghen for Omega Minor
2006 - Tommy Wieringa for Joe Speedboot
2007 - Marcel Möring for Dis
2008 - Doeschka Meijsing for Over de liefde
2009 - Marie Kessels for Ruw

2010 - Koen Peeters for De bloemen
2011 - Gustaaf Peek for Ik was Amerika
2012 - Stephan Enter for Grip
2013 - Oek de Jong for Pier en oceaan
2014 - Jan van Mersbergen for De laatste ontsnapping
2015 - Annelies Verbeke for Dertig dagen
2016 - Anton Valens for Het compostcirculatieplan
2017 - Jeroen Olyslaegers for WIL
2018 - Jan van Aken for De ommegang
2019 - Marente de Moor for Foon
2020 - Anjet Daanje for De herinnerde soldaat
2021 - Marieke Lucas Rijneveld for Mijn lieve gunsteling
2022 - Donald Niedekker, for Waarachtige beschrijvingen uit de permafrost
2023 - Tomas Lieske, for Niets dat hier hemelt
2024 - Marieke De Maré for Ik ga naar de schapen
2025 - Laura Broekhuysen for Magnetisch middernach


== References ==


== External links ==
Website Jan Campert Foundation (archived 2021)

Maurice Kamto (born 15 February 1954) is a Cameroonian politician, law professor and barrister. He is one of the founders of the opposition Cameroon Renaissance Movement (MRC).


== Career ==
He was a member of the International Law Commission of the United Nations from 1999 to 2016. He was one of the two main agents, the other one being Professor Peter Ntamark in the Cameroonian delegation that successfully led the negotiations to resolve the matter of Bakassi, a peninsula disputed with neighboring Nigeria. His decisive contribution helped him to be appointed as Minister-Delegate to the Minister of Justice in 2004. He resigned from the government in November 2011.

After resigning from the government, Kamto formed a new opposition party, the Cameroon Renaissance Movement (MRC). A kick-off meeting of his party merging multiple parties was prohibited by the government on 13 August 2012.
In the 2018 Cameroonian presidential election Kamto ran as presidential candidate for the MRC. Incumbent President Paul Biya is said to have won, in spite of a fiercely contested result process. Indeed, the entire country watched a strong defence from Kamto’s group of lawyers who pointed the partiality of The Supreme Court of Cameroon that is composed of Biya’s CPDM party members. Kamto was declared runner-up by the Court and said to have received 14 percent of the votes. Kamto challenged the official results and declared himself winner of the election. His supporters held small-scale protests since then.
On 26 January 2019, Kamto and 200 of his supporters were arrested and locked up in Kondengui maximum security prison in Yaounde, Cameroon. He was freed on 5 October 2019 along with other leaders of his party, a day after the end of the Major National Dialogue, following an official release by President Biya.
In October 2021, Kamto declared "I am not sure that waiting after Biya will lead to a change in Cameroon".
On July 11, 2024, Kamto was summoned to be heard by the Cameroonian Gendarmerie Legion on an ongoing investigation.
Kamto filed his candidacy for president in the 2025 Cameroonian presidential election, but was disqualified on 26 July by the national electoral commission (ELECAM), which said that the MRC, having boycotted legislative and municipal elections in 2020, was ineligible to nominate a candidate.  Kamto was excluded because he was one of two candidates registered to represent the MANIDEM party. Even though he had been officially adopted by the party's ruling body, another candidate from a splinter group also registered himself under the party's name.MANIDEM president Anicet Ekane described Kamto's exclusion as "arbitrary and provocative". Kamto appealed ELECAM's decision but the appeal was rejected by the Constitutional Council of Cameroon on August 5, 2025.


== Arrest and house arrest ==
In the months following the disputed 2018 elections, the MRC submitted, in vain, no fewer than a hundred requests for authorization to the Cameroonian authorities in order to carry out peaceful demonstrations. Those organized by supporters of the Biya regime and in its favour are authorized, to the great detriment of the equality of Cameroonian citizens vis-à-vis their constitution.


=== Arrest ===
On January 28, 2019, Maurice Kamto, whose party had finally called for non-violent marches known as "white marches" against the re-election of Paul Biya, was arrested by the Cameroonian authorities in Douala along with several executives, MRC sympathizers, journalists and members of his family at the home of Albert Dzongang. They were taken to the GSO (Special Operations Group) - an elite police unit - in Yaoundé. He was arrested for common law offenses. This came after the ransacking of Cameroonian embassies by his supporters. He was accused, among other things, of hostility towards the homeland and rebellion.
Subjected to violence by the police, Maurice Kamto and 145 other MRC supporters were accused of eight counts, including "incitement to insurrection", and transferred 14 days later to the central prison of Kondengui.
Emmanuel Macron, questioned by Calibri Calibro, an activist of the BAS of France, put pressure on the authorities of Yaoundé to obtain the release of Maurice Kamto. He adds that this was a condition for the arrival of Paul Biya in Lyon in France which occurred a few days after the release of Maurice Kamto and some co-detainees on October 5, 2019. Which was categorically refuted by the Yaoundé authorities. The release is accompanied by a suspension of legal proceedings against MRC activists and associates arrested in connection with the contestation of the results of the presidential election in Cameroon of October 2018.


=== House arrest ===
Following the march of September 22, 2020, Maurice Kamto's home was sealed off by law enforcement. In October 2020, the French Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jean-Yves Le Drian, raised this matter during a session of answers to questions from representatives of the people in France.
The blockade of his residence was lifted by the government on December 8, two days after the regional elections.


== Personal life ==
He is married to Suzanne Julie Fatchom Wega.


== References ==


== External links ==
Maurice Kamto on Twitter
Maurice Kamto on TikTok
Maurice Kamto on Instagram

André Le Dissez (11 November 1929 – 4 May 2018) was a French professional road bicycle racer.


== Major results ==


== References ==


== External links ==
André Le Dissez at Cycling Archives (archive)
Official Tour de France results for André Le Dissez

Alta Badia is a ski resort in the Dolomites of northern Italy, in the upper part of the Val Badia (German: Hochabtei) in South Tyrol. It is part of the Dolomiti Superski ski area. It is included in the territories of the municipalities of Corvara, Badia, and La Val. Centered on Corvara, the extended area's lift-served summit elevation is 2,550 m (8,366 ft) on the Sella group, with an overall vertical drop of 1,226 m (4,022 ft) to Pedraces. The native language of the majority of the locals is Ladin.


== Alpine Skiing World Cup ==

Alta Badia is a regular stop on the World Cup schedule, usually by the men in mid-December. Its giant slalom course, the classic Gran Risa, is one of the most challenging on the circuit. In December 2012, the course had a vertical drop of 448 m (1,470 ft), starting at 1,871 m (6,140 ft) and finishing at 1,423 m (4,670 ft), near La Ila (La Villa) (46.576°N 11.9°E﻿ / 46.576; 11.9). The race was won by Ted Ligety of the U.S., who also won two years earlier.
Nearby World Cup venues are Val Gardena to the west (over Gardena Pass) and Cortina d'Ampezzo (over Valparola Pass) to the east.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Ski Map.org – Alta Badia

The Huizhou dialect (simplified Chinese: 惠州话; traditional Chinese: 惠州話; pinyin: Huìzhōuhuà) is a Sinitic variety spoken in and around Huicheng District, the traditional urban centre of Huizhou, Guangdong. The locals also call the variety Bendihua (simplified Chinese: 本地话; traditional Chinese: 本地話; pinyin: Běndìhuà; lit. 'local speech') and distinguish it from the varieties spoken in Meixian and Danshui, Huiyang, which they call Hakka (simplified Chinese: 客家话; traditional Chinese: 客家話; pinyin: Kèjiāhuà).


== Classification ==
The classification of the Huizhou dialect is disputed because it shows characteristics of both Yue and Hakka. Most scholars consider the Huizhou dialect a dialect of Hakka with intense influence from Cantonese, but some scholars, most notably Liu Shuxin, consider it to be a dialect of Yue.
The first edition of the Language Atlas of China puts it into its own subgroup under Hakka known as the Huizhou subgroup (惠州片; Huìzhōu piàn). In the second edition, it is still classified as a dialect of Hakka, but it is placed under the Mei–Hui cluster (梅惠小片; Méi-Huì xiǎopiàn) of the Yue–Tai subgroup (粤台片; 粵臺片; Yuè-Tái piàn).
Liu Shuxin groups it together with other similar dialects spoken around the middle and upper reaches of the Dong River, including the Heyuan dialect, into the Hui–He branch (惠河系; Huì-Hé xì) of Yue. Chang Song-hing and Zhuang Chusheng propose a similar grouping called the Hui–He subgroup (惠河片; Huì-Hé piàn), but they classify the group as Hakka. Lau Chunfat, considering this group of dialects distinct from Hakka or Yue, argues for a distinct branch of Sinitic called Huizhou–Shuiyuan.


== Phonology ==


=== Tones ===
The Huizhou dialect has seven tones:

Other than these seven tones, ˥ (55) appears in some grammatical particles.


== Grammar ==


=== Verbal aspect ===
The Huizhou dialect has several aspectual markers that attach to the verb as suffixes:


=== Pronouns ===
The Huizhou dialect has the following personal pronouns. The plural is formed by a tone change.


== Vocabulary ==
The Huizhou dialect has many cognates with Yue and/or Hakka (cognates with Huizhou are shaded in blue):


== Notes ==


== References ==
Chang, Song-hing; Zhuang, Chusheng (2008). 廣東方言的地理格局與自然地理及歷史地理的關係 [Geographical Distribution of Guangdong Dialects: Their Linkage with Natural and Historical Geography] (PDF). Journal of Chinese Studies (in Chinese) (48): 407–422.
Chen, Shu-huan (2010).  惠州方言的完成体助词“抛”和“□[ei⁵⁵]” [Auxiliaries of Perfect Aspect Pao and [ei⁵⁵] in Huizhou Dialect]. Journal of Huizhou University (in Chinese). 30 (4): 8–14.
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; Australian Academy of the Humanities (1987).  中国语言地图集 [Language Atlas of China] (in Chinese). Hong Kong: Longman Group (Far East). ISBN 0-582-99903-0.
Hou, Xiaoying (2008).  东江中上游本地话研究 [A Study of Bendihua in the Middle and Upper Reaches of Dongjiang Basin] (PhD) (in Chinese). Xiamen University.
Hou, Xiaoying (2017).  惠州话：粤色客底的粤化客方言 [Huizhou Dialect: a Hakka Dialect Greatly Influenced by Yue Dialect]. Academic Research (in Chinese) (7): 159–169.
Huang, Xuezhen (1987).  惠州话的归属. Fangyan (in Chinese) (4): 255–263.
Liu, Ruoyun (1991).  惠州方言志 [Huizhou Dialect Gazetteer] (in Chinese). Guangzhou: Guangdong Science & Technology Press. ISBN 7-5359-0658-3.
Liu, Ruoyun (1997).  惠州方言的助词 [Particles in the Huizhou Dialect]. Sun Yatsen University Forum (in Chinese) (4): 15–22.
Liu, Shuxin (2007).  东江中上游土语群研究——粤语惠河系探考 [A Study of the Group of Vernaculars Spoken around the Middle and Upper Reaches of the Dong River—An Investigation of the Hui–He Branch of Yue] (in Chinese). Beijing: China Society Publishing House. ISBN 978-7-5087-1716-6.
Local Gazetteer Editorial Committee of Huicheng District, Huizhou City, ed. (2012).  惠州市惠城区志 [Gazetteer of Huicheng District, Huizhou City] (in Chinese). Guangzhou: Guangdong People's Publishing House. ISBN 978-7-218-08115-1.
Sagart, Laurent (1998). "On distinguishing Hakka and non-Hakka dialects". Journal of Chinese Linguistics. 26 (2): 281–302. JSTOR 23756757.
Xie, Liuwen; Huang, Xuezhen (2012).  B1—17 客家话.  中国语言地图集 [Language Atlas of China] (in Chinese). Vol. 汉语方言卷 (2nd ed.). Beijing: Commercial Press. pp. 116–124. ISBN 978-7-100-07054-6.
Yan, Xiuhong (2009). 河源惠州“本地话”语音概略（一） [A Summary of the Phonology of "Bendihua" in Heyuan and Huizhou] (PDF) (in Chinese). {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)

Adam Bednarik (born October 1, 1982) is an American producer, audio engineer, and bassist. He is known for his long-term work with the American singer, songwriter, and guitar player Justin Townes Earle. Bednarik has also worked with artists including Spencer Cullum's Coin Collection, J. D. Simo, William Tyler, Steelism and Carl Broemel of My Morning Jacket, Tchad Blake, Coupler, Kort, Cortney Tidwell, Hands Off Cuba, Meadownoise, Luella and the Sun and Thrift Wig.
Bednarik was the house engineer at the Nashville-based historical House of David Recording Studio from 2002 to 2012.
In 2010, Bednarik recorded, mixed, and produced Behold the Spirit by William Tyler and in 2012 recorded and mixed Wanda Jackson's album Unfinished Business which was produced by Justin Townes Earle.
In 2014 he recorded and co-produced Justin Townes Earle's companion albums, Single Mothers and Absent Fathers. Bednarik also worked in an A&R capacity for Earle's 2017 release, Kids in the Street and later went on to produce, record, and play bass on Earle's eighth album, The Saint of Lost Causes.
In 2019, Bednarik produced the single "Cliff House Kids" for Meadownoise which was released by YK Records.
Bednarik produced, mixed, played bass and created the cover art for JD Simo's album Mind Control that was released in 2021.
In August 2024, a posthumous release of Justin Townes Earle’s All In: Unreleased & Rarities (The New West Years), a compilation of unheard demos and rare material was released on New West Records. It was compiled and Produced by Bednarik and Kim Buie.


== Discography ==


== References ==

In Greek mythology, the name Eleius (; Ancient Greek:  Ἠλεῖος)  may refer to:

Eleius, son of Poseidon and Eurycyda. When Aetolus, his maternal uncle, was sent into exile, Eleius became king of the Epeans (who had received their original name from his other uncle, Epeius) and renamed his people the Eleans after himself, and the land was accordingly named Elis. He had a son Augeas.
Eleius, a descendant of the precedent (the lineage is as follows: Eleius I - Augeas - Agasthenes - Polyxenus - Amphimachus - Eleius II), and also king of Elis. It was during his reign that the Heracleidae assembled under the leadership of Aristomachus' sons to attempt to return to Peloponnesus.
Eleius, son of Tantalus and another possible eponym of Elis.


== Notes ==


== References ==
Pausanias, Description of Greece with an English Translation by W.H.S. Jones, Litt.D., and H.A. Ormerod, M.A., in 4 Volumes. Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd. 1918. ISBN 0-674-99328-4. Online version at the Perseus Digital Library
Pausanias, Graeciae Descriptio. 3 vols. Leipzig, Teubner. 1903.  Greek text available at the Perseus Digital Library.
Stephanus of Byzantium, Stephani Byzantii Ethnicorum quae supersunt, edited by August Meineike (1790-1870), published 1849. A few entries from this important ancient handbook of place names have been translated by Brady Kiesling. Online version at the Topos Text Project.

Norwalk Catholic Schools (NCS) is a unified school system in Norwalk, Huron County, Ohio, United States.  The responsibility for its operation is shared between the Norwalk-area Roman Catholic parishes of St. Mary Mother of the Redeemer Church and St. Paul the Apostle in Norwalk and St. Anthony of Padua in Milan.  The school system serves students from preschool through grade 12. The school contains students of the highest grades and abilities.
School facilities

Early Childhood Center (St. Mary Campus on State Street)
Norwalk Catholic Elementary (St. Paul Campus on Milan Avenue)
Norwalk Catholic Junior High School (St. Paul Campus on East Main Street)
St. Paul High School (on East Main Street)


== External links ==
Norwalk Catholic Schools website

The Greatest Live Show on Earth is a live album by American musician and singer Jerry Lee Lewis. It was released on Smash Records in 1964.  It was Lewis' best-selling album of the decade, with its cover of Tommy Tucker's "High Heel Sneakers" becoming a mild pop hit.


== Background ==
In April 1964, Lewis had "bottomed out", with no record being on any charts in years. According to American pop music critic Robert Hilburn, he believes the "key reason for Lewis' sales decline was that disc jockeys stopped playing his records following the controversy over his 1958 marriage to a 13-year-old cousin".
When he went on tour in 1964, in England and Germany, "he was getting paid so little that he couldn't afford to bring his own musicians". When he arrived in Hamburg, a British band called the Nashville Teens were designated to be his back up band for a gig at the Star Club, where Lewis was scheduled to perform. A producer for Philips Records, Siggi Loch, decided that this would be a good opportunity to record Lee's show. The resulting album was, Live at the Star Club, Hamburg; and because it "features a man playing as if his life depended on it in front of a rioting crowd, is widely considered one of the greatest live rock and roll albums ever". Because Philips was unaffiliated with Smash and due to legal constraints, the album did not come out in the United States at that time, but it eventually got an official U.S. release in 1980.
The producer Shelby Singleton then decided to record a live album that could be released on Smash and The Greatest Live Show on Earth was assembled mainly from shows performed at the Municipal Auditorium in Birmingham, Alabama in July 1964. The live album was part of a campaign by Smash Records to "restore Lewis as a major seller". According to Lewis, "Shelby had microphones set up all across the stage ... it was the first time anyone had set up a live recording like that. We got some real momentum goin' out there and it all had to be captured in one take.  No second chances. I think Shelby edited out some of the talking but that was all." Lewis was backed by his new touring band that soon became known as the Memphis Beats.


== Track listing ==
"Jenny, Jenny" (Enotris Johnson, Richard Penniman)
"Who Will the Next Fool Be" (Charlie Rich)
"Memphis" (Chuck Berry)
"Hound Dog" (Jerry Leiber, Mike Stoller)
"I Got a Woman" (Ray Charles, Renald Richard)*
"Hi-Heel Sneakers" (Tommy Tucker)
"No Particular Place to Go" (Chuck Berry)
"Together Again" (Buck Owens)
"Long Tall Sally" (Enotris Johnson, Richard Penniman)
"Whole Lotta Shakin' Going On" (Sunny David, Dave "Curlee" Williams)


== References ==

Carson of Venus is a science fantasy novel by American writer Edgar Rice Burroughs, the third book in the Venus series (sometimes called the "Carson Napier of Venus series"). Burroughs wrote the novel in July and August 1937. It was serialized in 1938 in six weekly installments from January 8 to February 12 in Argosy, the same publication where the previous two Venus novels appeared. It was published in book form a year later by Edgar Rice Burroughs, Inc. Burroughs originally submitted the novel to a number of the "slick" magazines: Liberty, The Saturday Evening Post, Collier's, and Ladies' Home Journal. All rejected the story.
The novel, which was written two years before the outbreak of World War II, satirizes Nazi Germany by including a fascist political faction called the "Zani". There is also a character named "Muso" as a reference to Benito Mussolini. Unlike the first two Venus novels, Carson of Venus focuses on spy intrigue and war instead of wilderness adventuring. It also indicates a change of political orientation from that of the earlier books, where the villains were modeled on Russian Communists.
Carson of Venus was nominated for a Retro-Hugo Award for best science fiction novel of 1939.  The award went to T. H. White's The Sword in the Stone.


== Copyright ==
The copyright for this story has expired in Australia and in Canada, and thus now resides in the public domain there.  The text is available via Project Gutenberg Australia and Faded Page in Canada.


== References ==


== External links ==
Edgar Rice Burroughs Online Bibliography from ERBzine.com
Carson of Venus at Faded Page (Canada)
Free Ebook from Project Gutenberg of Australia
Edgar Rice Burroughs Summary Project page for Carson of Venus

Hermann Gonçalves Schatzmayr (May 11, 1936 – June 21, 2010) was a Brazilian virologist and researcher of Austrian descent. He was the head of the Department of Virology at the Instituto Oswaldo Cruz (IOC / Fiocruz) for 30 years and was the president of the institution from 1990 to 1992. He was one of the most important virologists from Brazil.


== References ==

The 1981 Ladies European Tour was the third season of golf tournaments organised by the Women's Professional Golfers' Association (WPGA), which later became the Ladies European Tour (LET). There were 13 tournaments on the schedule including four Carlsberg sponsored events and the Women's British Open, organised by the Ladies' Golf Union.
For the 1981 season, the majority of tournaments were increased to 54-holes, having previously been held over 36-holes. This included the Carlsberg events, which were reduced in number, from ten down to four, in order to increase the prize funds at each event. Total prize money on the tour was planned to rise to £250,000 in 1981, but the tour suffered financially during the season as several tournaments were cancelled after sponsors withdrew their support.
The Order of Merit was won by Jenny Lee Smith, who dominated the season with three wins and four runner-up finishes; her £13,518 in prize money put her more than £5,000 clear of runner-up Cathy Panton. The Carlsberg European Championship overall title was won by Panton, who won two of the four events.


== Tournaments ==
The table below shows the 1981 schedule. The numbers in brackets after the winners' names show the number of career wins they had on the Ladies European Tour up to and including that event. This is only shown for members of the tour.

Major championship in bold.


== Order of Merit ==
The Order of Merit was sponsored by Hambro Life and based on prize money won throughout the season.


== See also ==
1981 LPGA Tour


== References ==


== External links ==
Official site of the Ladies European Tour

George William Lamplugh (8 April 1859 – 9 October 1926) was a British geologist. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1905 and won the Wollaston Medal of the Geological Society in 1925. He was awarded the Bigsby Medal in 1901.


== Lamplugh and the Isle of Man ==
Between 1892 and 1897, Lamplugh made the first official geological map of the Isle of Man under the auspices of the British Geological Survey. His original observations and field maps are kept at the British Geological Survey in Edinburgh. Hand-painted 'clean' copies of his map sheets are housed at the Manx Museum on the Isle of Man.


== References ==


== External links ==
Early Discoverers, L. F. Penny, 1964
Obituary

Circle Waltz is the second album by pianist Don Friedman which was recorded in 1962 and released on the Riverside label.


== Reception ==

Jazz writer Leonard Feather's review was published in the Down Beat edition of January 17, 1963. Feather wrote: "Friedman is a rare pianist. He thinks before he plays... the album is in a class with some of the best work of Bill Evans, with whom Friedman can be related in terms of general direction rather than emulation."
The AllMusic review by Scott Yanow stated: "Even ignoring that bassist Chuck Israels is on this set and the similarity of some of the repertoire, it is difficult to overlook the fact that pianist Don Friedman sounds very similar to Bill Evans... Friedman uses chord voicings similar to Evans and engages in the same type of close interplay with his sidemen. However, since the music is of high quality and few other keyboardists sounded like Evans this early, Circle Waltz is worth hearing by post-bop fans."


== Track listing ==
All compositions by Don Friedman, except as indicated

"Circle Waltz" – 5:59
"Sea's Breeze" – 6:05
"I Hear a Rhapsody" (Jack Baker, George Fragos, Dick Gasparre) – 7:32
"In Your Own Sweet Way" (Dave Brubeck) – 5:20
"Loves Parting" – 5:45
"So in Love" (Cole Porter) – 3:25
"Modes Pivoting" – 6:44


== Personnel ==
Don Friedman – piano
Chuck Israels – bass (tracks 1–5 & 7)
Pete LaRoca – drums (tracks 1–5 & 7)


== References ==

The Radiation Effects Research Foundation (RERF) is a joint U.S.-Japan research organization responsible for studying the medical effects of radiation and associated diseases in humans for the welfare of the survivors and all humankind. The organization's scientific laboratories are located in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Japan.
RERF's studies into radiation health effects have continued for more than 70 years, making RERF unique for its conduct of epidemiological and other research on such a large population (more than 120,000 individuals) over such a long timeframe. RERF continues its research with the aim of further elucidating the effects of A-bomb radiation on human health.
RERF carries out research in numerous scientific fields, including epidemiology, clinical medicine, genetics, and immunology. Findings from RERF's studies are utilized not only for the medical care and welfare of the A-bomb survivors but also for the establishment of international radiation protection standards.


== History ==
RERF is the successor organization to the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission (ABCC), established in 1947 by the U.S. government. ABCC's mission was to determine the long-term effects on health from exposure to radiation in A-bomb survivors and their children.
In the 1950s, an extensive interview survey was conducted, based on which records were compiled for each of the A-bomb survivor participants in the ABCC studies. These records detailed location of each survivor at the time of the bombing and structure of the building, or "shielding" as it is known, that the survivor may have been in at the time. Based on such records, radiation doses from the atomic bombings were estimated for the A-bomb survivors. Accurate estimates of radiation exposure were crucial for tying a specific dose to a certain health effect observed in later studies of health effects in the survivors.
ABCC was reorganized into RERF, a research institute jointly funded by the governments of Japan and the United States, on 1 April 1975, as a nonprofit foundation under jurisdiction of the Japan Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. On 1 April 2012, RERF transitioned to a public interest incorporated foundation upon authorization by Japan's Prime Minister.


== Research Programs ==
Source:
RERF studies the effects of radiation on the survivors of the atomic bombings in Japan.


=== Life Span Study (LSS) ===
The Life Span Study (LSS) is a research program investigating life-long health effects based on epidemiologic (cohort and case-control) studies. Its major objective is to investigate the long-term effects of A-bomb radiation on causes of death and incidence of cancer. About 120,000 subjects selected from residents of Hiroshima and Nagasaki identified through the national census in 1950 have been followed since that time, including 94,000 atomic-bomb survivors and 27,000 unexposed individuals. The study gathers samples from the study population of both sexes and all ages. For that reason, and due to its long duration, it is considered to be among the most informative epidemiological studies in the world. It continues to provide information about cancer incidence, cancer mortality, and non-cancer effects in the survivors. The LSS will be continued for the lifetimes of the participants.


=== Adult Health Study (AHS) ===
The Adult Health Study (AHS) is a clinical research program based on biennial health examinations. Its major objective is to investigate the long-term effects of A-bomb radiation on health. About 20,000 subjects selected from the Life Span Study (LSS) cohort have been followed since 1958, with an additional 2,400 LSS participants and 1,000 in utero-exposed persons added to the study in 1977. The examinations include a general physical exam, ECG, chest X-ray, ultrasonography, and biochemical tests. Using the data collected during these health examinations, it is possible to conduct long-term follow-up studies of the prevalence and incidence of diseases and changes in physiological and biochemical endpoints. Long-term observation of the changes in measurement values, such as blood pressure, benefits participants and contributes to the health management of the A-bomb survivors.


=== Children of Atomic-bomb Survivors (F1) Study ===
The children of the atomic bomb survivors are studied to determine whether genetic effects might be apparent that could be related to parental A-bomb radiation exposure. An initial study of birth defects did not reveal any discernable effects. Subsequent studies on mortality and cancer incidence, chromosome abnormalities, and serum proteins were also conducted, but again no radiation effect has been observed. Presently, continued mortality and cancer-incidence follow-up and molecular studies on DNA are being conducted. Starting from 2002, a new clinical study was initiated to investigate lifestyle-related diseases that are not observable at birth but start to appear after middle age (e.g., hypertension, diabetes mellitus, etc.). This study was conducted to examine over a period of four years about 12,000 people.


=== In Utero Study ===
The in utero study is a unique evaluation of the lifetime health experience of a specially exposed population, namely those in utero at the time of the bombings (about 3,600 persons). It is not known whether the sensitivity to radiation effects of this group is similar to or greater than that of the youngest postnatal group (0–5 years). The continued follow-up of this cohort through middle and old age until mortality is projected to be highly informative.


=== Genetics Study ===
The genetics study is largely carried out by the Department of Molecular Biosciences. Individual radiation doses are assessed by evaluation of chromosome aberration frequency in the blood cells of A-bomb survivors. Radiation doses can also be estimated with special techniques that measure trace amounts of radicals that remain in the teeth of A-bomb survivors. By evaluating DNA from parents and children, studies are carried out to determine whether de novo mutation rates are increased among the children of A-bomb survivors. Efforts are also being made to accurately detect radiation-induced mutation rates using mouse models. Studies have been initiated to examine genomic instability (marked by high-frequency genome-wide changes) and genetic effects on cancer (association between radiation exposure and individual genetic characteristics).


=== Immunology ===
Evidence is emerging that atomic-bomb radiation led to certain changes in the immune system of exposed persons. State-of-the-art methods used to characterize cells of the immune system are being applied to better understand these changes and to assess their possible impact on health.


=== Cytogenetics ===
The cytogenetics evaluations provide one means of assessing radiation exposure (through what is termed "biological dosimetry") by evaluating the types and amounts of structural damage in chromosomes due to radiation.


=== A-bomb Dosimetry ===
Assessing the risks of radiation exposure requires knowledge of the dose of radiation received. There are no direct measurements of dose for individual survivors. This program is concerned with providing survivor dose estimates. Basic information on radiation exposures are based on modern understanding of the physics of the bombs and the results of extremely sensitive measurements that can detect minute traces of the A-bomb radiation exposure in various types of materials (concrete, granite, copper, etc.). To estimate the dose received by an individual survivor, this information is combined with historical interview data pertaining to that survivor's location and shielding at the time of the bombings. The dosimetry program is also concerned with developing a better understanding of the uncertainties in survivor dose estimates and how to account for the effect of these uncertainties on risk estimates.


== Facilities ==
RERF operates two scientific research and clinical facilities: one in Hiroshima and one in Nagasaki.


== References ==


== External links ==

Radiation Effects Research Foundation Home website in English and Japanese

Squatter is a board game that was launched at the Royal Melbourne Show in 1962, invented by Robert (Bob) Crofton Lloyd. With more than 500,000 games sold in Australia by 2007, it became the most successful board game ever developed in Australia. As of 2018 there are still Squatter competitions and active Squatter clubs. In 1999, a version became available on PC CD-ROM. However the PC version was not commercially successful and is no longer available.


== Game play and components ==
Superficially, Squatter has the appearance of a Monopoly-type game. However, unlike Monopoly, all players remain in the game until the end. Players each start the game with their own sheep station and aim to be the first player to improve and irrigate their pastures and then fully stock their sheep station. Players run their sheep station as a business venture, to earn enough money to pay for the seasonal running expenses and to finance the improvements that are required to win the game. The Squatter game presents players with a mixture of strategy and luck that reflects the many challenges facing any form of livestock raising. These challenges include droughts, floods and bushfires, as well as disease, variable livestock prices, and luck. 
The components of the game are stored in a cardboard box with a lid. The box depicts an Australian stockman herding sheep on horseback. The components consist of

A square game board with a hexagonal layout representing 6 sheep stations and a Monopoly-like set of squares printed around the edges of the board that pieces move around
Two "Ready Reckoner reference" cards
Twenty-two "Tucker Bag" cards, five "Stud Ram" cards, twenty-six "Stock Sale" cards, five "Worm Control Programme" cards, five "Fertilized Pasture" cards, five "Control of Weeds and Insects" cards, thirty "Irrigated Pasture" cards and thirty "Improved Pasture" cards
Two 6-sided dice
Six playing pieces, six hay stack pieces, and one hundred and eighty sheep tokens
Play money of various denominations


== Australian cultural significance ==
The game has been added to the collections Australian Stockman's Hall of Fame and Outback Centre as well as the National Wool Museum and the National Museum of Australia where in the Statement of Significance it quotes"'Squatter's' focus on sheep farming reflects the inextricable link between this industry and Australian history more broadly." and "The 'Squatter' boardgame, which has been a household favourite in Australia for 45 years, offers players a rough simulation of life as a sheep farmer with all the daily trials and tribulations this entails."


== Criticism ==
The game has received some criticism in recent years (2016) with Mental Floss rating it number 8 in 14 justifiably forgotten Milton Bradley board games. Mental Floss's position is that:"Some board games turn up the tension so high you practically sweat through your clothes. Squatter, an Australian import which brings home the high-stakes world of sheep-herding, is probably not one of them."


== Reviews ==
Games & Puzzles


== References ==


== External links ==
Official Squatter Game site
Squatter   at BoardGameGeek
PC CD-ROM Developer Torus Games
Squatter Facebook Community

Michael Phillip McDonald is a Justice in the Trial Division of the Supreme Court of Victoria and Head of the Industrial Relations and Employment Law List.
His secondary education was with the Christian Brothers at St Thomas More College and St Leo's College. He completed a Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Laws, and subsequently a Master of Laws, at the University of Melbourne.
McDonald was admitted to practice in 1985 and signed the Bar Roll in 1989. He practiced as a barrister for more than 25 years, nearly 9 years as Silk, and was a leader in Employment and Workplace Relations Law.
He served Articles at Phillips, Fox & Masel.  He later became an Advocate, first for the Australian Public Service Association, and later for the Municipal Officers Association. He appeared regularly in the Supreme Court of Victoria, in the Federal Court and in the Fair Work Commission, and also in several landmark cases in the High Court, including:

Patricks v The Maritime Union of Australia;
Re Pacific Coal Pty Limited; Ex parte: The CMFEU);
Electrolux v The Australian Manufacturing Workers Union; and
The Minister for Employment and Workplace Relations v Gribbles Radiology Pty Ltd.
He was appointed Senior Counsel in 2005 before becoming a Queen's Counsel in 2014 and took up his appointment on the Supreme Court on 16 September 2014.


== References ==

William II or William-Raymond (died 1229) was, from 1224 until his death, Lord of Montcada and Castellví de Rosanes (in Catalonia) and, as Guillermo II, Viscount of Bearn, of Marsan, of Gabardan and of Brulhois (in the southwest of present-day France). He was the son of Guillem Ramon de Montcada and Guilleuma de Castellvell.
The main thrust of his policy was the affairs of the Aragonese court, in which several families vied for influence over the young King James I. In particular, he was involved in the preparation for the invasion of the Balearic Islands.
In his last visit to Bearn, in February 1228, he promised the representative of the King of England that he would pay the latter homage throughout his lands in Aquitaine (Bearn, Gabardan, Brulhois and Captieux). This act marked the departure of Bearn from within the Aragonese domain and the start of its progressive submission to England.
Back in Catalonia, he played a leading role in the council held in Salou which planned the conquest of Majorca. In September 1229 the fleet left for Majorca, with Guillermo commanding the first ship. The troops having landed, they engaged in the battle of Portopí, thus beginning the conquest of Majorca. The crew had faced little difficulty when they landed on the 12 September. However, Guillermo was killed, along with eight knights of his family, including his nephew Ramon de Moncada in the Sierra de Na Burguesa (Calvia). In the division following the conquest of the island by the Crown of Aragon, the municipality of Costitx was given to Guillermo II de Bearn and thus passed to his heirs.
His mausoleum is in the church of the Monastery of Santes Creus.


== Descendants ==
Guillem Ramon de Moncada had two children with his wife Garsenda, daughter of Alfonso II, Count of Provence and Garsenda de Folcarquier. They had:

Gastón, who succeeded him in 1229
Constanza de Béarn, who married Diego López III de Haro, Lord of Vizcaya.


== References ==


== Sources ==
Howell, Margaret (2001). Eleanor of Provence: Queenship in Thirteenth-Century England. Blackwell Publishers.
Smith, Damian J. (2010). Crusade, Heresy and Inquisition in the Lands of the Crown of Aragon (c. 1167). BRILL. ISBN 9789004182899.

Greece–Switzerland relations are foreign relations between Greece and Switzerland.  Both countries established diplomatic relations in 1830.  Switzerland opened its consulate in 1865.
Greece has an embassy in Bern, a general consulate in Geneva, and two honorary consulates in Zürich and Lugano.  Switzerland has an embassy in Athens and four consulates (Thessaloniki, Corfu, Patras, Rhodes).


== History ==


=== 19th century ===
Greece and Switzerland have a long tradition of relations. Before and during the Congress of Vienna in 1815 Ioannis Kapodistrias, a native of Corfu in the service of Tsar Alexander I of Russia, laboured successfully for reorganisation of the Swiss Confederation and for the international recognition of Swiss neutrality. In 1816, he became the first honorary citizen of the city of Lausanne and in 1827, the first Governor of the Hellenic State. 

In 1823, hundreds of Greeks became stranded in Switzerland after France refused them passage to the port of Marseille. These men were veterans of a failed uprising against Ottoman rule in the Danubian Principalities during the Greek War of Independence. After their defeat, they fled north and west across Europe to escape reprisals, trying to bypass Ottoman and Austrian territories. Their long journey took them from Eastern Europe through German territories and into Switzerland. They hoped to reach France and sail from Marseille back to Greece. However, political tensions and diplomatic pressure blocked their transit through France, leaving them stranded in Switzerland for several months. The refugees were distributed among 29 Swiss towns across different cantons. Six of them were sent to Zofingen, they aged between 18 and 33 and their hometowns were Messolonghi, Preveza and Smyrna. There, the Greeks were received with sympathy. Local authorities and citizens provided accommodation and basic support. To occupy themselves during their stay and gain some money, they took part in military exercises with Swiss soldiers and were entrusted with cleaning rifles in the town armoury. When France finally reopened its borders six months later, in May 1823, the refugees were allowed to travel onward to Marseille. To express their gratitude for the hospitality they had received, the six Greeks crafted two model warships, named Eleftheria and Argos. They presented the ships as gifts to Johann Jakob Suter, a local physician and military officer, and to the town of Zofingen. These ships remain on permanent display today at the Zofingen Museum. The six Greeks left Switzerland together with the other Greek refugees. Johann Jakob Suter described the Greeks as respectful and well behaved. A report by the Aargau cantonal government similarly noted that the Greeks were calm, modest and resigned demeanor, adding that they willingly accepted every arrangement and hardship.
Switzerland was one of the nations that supported the creation of the Greek state in 1830. Two natives of Geneva exercised important functions in the newly constituted Greek monarchy: Jean-Gabriel Eynard as one of the founders of the National Bank of Greece (1842) and Louis-André Gosse was involved in fighting the plague epidemic of 1827 and was a commander in the Hellenic Navy.


=== 20th century ===
During the Second World War, Switzerland represented the interests of numerous countries in occupied Greece and supported the civilian population. During the rule of military junta in Greece, many opposition figures found refuge in Switzerland. The Swiss Committee for the Restoration of Democracy in Greece was formed in Bern in 1967.


== Agreements ==
Greece and Switzerland have a number of treaties between the two countries, mainly dealing with commerce.  Some of the major treaties between the countries deal with Social Security and the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income tax.


== Trade ==
The balance of trade between Greece and Switzerland is generally toward Switzerland, with Greece having a constant trade deficit.  Between 2006 and 2007, Swiss exports to Greece increased 12.9%, while Greek exports to Switzerland increased 26.4%.  The main Swiss products imported into Greece are pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, watches, clocks and other luxury goods, machinery and high technology products, electronic equipment, and specific types of food.  The main Greek products imported into Switzerland are food and beverages, chemicals, construction materials, and textiles.  There are about 48 Swiss companies in Greece which employ about 10,000 people in Greece.  Around 300,000 Swiss vacationers visit Greece every year. 


== Greek population ==
About 11,000 Greeks live in Switzerland, with about 7,000 of them living in Zürich. Most major Swiss towns have a Greek association or community. There are (as of April 2008) 2,921 Swiss living in Greece.

Notable people


== Resident diplomatic missions ==
Greece has an embassy in Bern and a consulate-general in Geneva.
Switzerland has an embassy in Athens.


== See also ==
Foreign relations of Greece
Foreign relations of Switzerland


== Notes and references ==


== External links ==
Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs about relations with Switzerland
Swiss Federal Department of Foreign Affairs about relations with Greece

The 2005 IIHF World Championship final was an ice hockey match that took place on 15 May 2005 at the Wiener Stadthalle in Vienna, Austria, to determine the winner of the 2005 IIHF World Championship. The Czech Republic defeated Canada 3–0 to win its fifth championship.


== Background ==
The game marked the second time that Canada and the Czech Republic would meet in the World Championship finals. The previous time was in the 1996 tournament, also in Vienna, Austria. In that game the Czech Republic defeated Canada by a score of 4–2 on 5 May 1996. The Czech Republic were finalists for the first time since 2001, the end of their dominance of the late 1990s and early 2000s, where they won 4 World Championships in the span of 6 years (1996–2001). Canada, however, had a more recent hot streak and were clear favorites, as they were looking for their third consecutive title after winning in 2003 and 2004.


== Venue ==
The Wiener Stadthalle in Vienna was determined to host the final of the championship. Previously at the tournament, the venue hosted both semifinals, as well as the bronze medal match. In the final, the attendance was 7,999.


== The match ==


=== Summary ===

Václav Prospal opened the scoring for the Czech Republic at 4:13 minutes into the game, assisted by Martin Ručinský and Jaromír Jágr. This ended up to be the game winning goal, the fastest in IIHF finals history.
A deadlock second period saw Canada go on the powerplay twice and outshoot the Czechs 11–7. Czech goaltender Tomáš Vokoun displayed a dominant performance however, facing some of Canada's stars such as Dany Heatly, Rick Nash and Ryan Smyth. Vokoun, who entered the tournament in the shadow of the legendary Czech goalie Dominik Hašek, ended with a stellar performance and a shutout in the final, the first time this was achieved in a single game final.
3:12 into the third period, Martin Ručinský received a fast saucer pass from Jágr, off of Petr Čajánek, while rushing the offensive zone and fired a wrist shot which beat Martin Brodeur low on the glove side. With less than a minute remaining in the match, Josef Vašíček scored an empty net goal, which brought the final score to 3–0 for the Czech republic.
The Czechs were overall more agile and had more speed, more than likely because of the 2004–05 NHL lockout, which left 12 players of Canada's without a club team in close to a calendar year, while almost every member of the Czech roster was playing in the Czech Extraliga, or other European leagues.


=== Details ===


== See also ==
2005 IIHF World Championship
Canada men's national ice hockey team
Czech Republic men's national ice hockey team


== References ==
Game recap by the NY Sun
Official IIHF game report
Archive of the 2005 IIHF World Championship

San Bernardo is a railway station of the Empresa de los Ferrocarriles del Estado, located in San Bernardo, Chile. It is located on Baquedano street.
San Bernardo is part of the Red Sur EFE, and all passenger traffic stops here.


== Lines and trains ==
The following train services pass through San Bernardo:

Red Sur EFE
TerraSur (inter-city rail) (Alameda - Chillán)
Metrotrén Rancagua (regional-commuter rail) (Alameda - Rancagua)
Metrotrén Nos (commuter rail) (Alameda - Nos)


== External links ==
Empresa de los Ferrocarriles del Estado
Metrotrén
Terrasur

The Kakhonak River is a river in Alaska that flows from Kakhonak Lake into Iliamna Lake via Kakhonak Bay.  It is fast moving river with white water and four waterfalls.  It has a large fish population including trout, grayling and salmon.
Bud Branham built a cabin at Kakhonak Falls in 1949, which eventually grew into Kakhonak Falls Lodge, the first sportsmen's lodge in the Bristol Bay watershed.


== See also ==
List of Alaska rivers


== References ==

HMS Edinburgh was a 74-gun third rate Vengeur-class ship of the line built for the Royal Navy in the first decade of the 19th century. Completed in 1811, she played a minor role in the Napoleonic Wars.
Between 1837 and 1841 she served in the Mediterranean, including operations off the coast of Syria and Lebanon in the Syrian War. In 1846 she was taken in hand at Portsmouth Dockyard and converted to steam-powered screw propulsion as a 'blockship'. The conversion was completed on 19 August 1852. In this transformation her displacement was increased to 2,598 tons and her complement of guns reduced to 60 (or 56: reports differ). She acted as guard ship for Devonport until February 1854, when she was assigned to the fleet sent to the Baltic under Sir Charles Napier. She was the flagship of Rear-Admiral Henry Ducie Chads, third in command of the fleet, and took part in the bombardment and capture of the Russian fortress of Bomarsund on Åland. She returned to the Baltic in 1855. Subsequently, she was a guard ship at Sheerness and at Leith, and was sold out of the Navy for breaking up in 1866.


== Notes ==


== References ==

Colledge, J. J.; Warlow, Ben & Bush, Steve (2020). Ships of the Royal Navy: The Complete Record of all Fighting Ships of the Royal Navy from the 15th Century to the Present (5th revised and updated ed.). Seaforth Publishing. ISBN 978-1-5267-9327-0.
Lambert, Andrew D. (1984). Battleships in Transition: The Creation of the Steam Battlefleet 1815-1860. Conway Maritime Press. ISBN 0-85177-315-X.
Lambert, Andrew D. (1991). The Last Sailing Battlefleet: Maintaining Naval Mastery 1815 - 1850. Conway Maritime Press. ISBN 0-85177-591-8.
Lavery, Brian (1984). The Ship of the Line. Vol. 1: The Development of the Battlefleet 1650-1850. Naval Institute Press. ISBN 0-85177-252-8.
Winfield, Rif (2008). British Warships in the Age of Sail 1793–1817: Design, Construction, Careers and Fates (2nd, revised ed.). Seaforth. ISBN 978-1-84415-717-4.
Winfield, Rif (2014). British Warships in the Age of Sail 1817–1863: Design, Construction, Careers and Fates. Seaforth Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84832-169-4.

Javier Akapo Martínez (born 3 September 1996) is a footballer who plays as a midfielder and centre-back for Segunda Federación club Moscardó. Born in Spain, he plays for the Equatorial Guinea national team.


== Early life ==
Akapo was born in Spain to an Equatoguinean father and Spanish mother.


== Club career ==
In July 2025, Akapo signed for Moscardó.


== International career ==
Akapo represented Equatorial Guinea at the 2015 COTIF Tournament. He debuted with the senior Equatorial Guinea national team in a 1–1 2022 FIFA World Cup qualification tie with Mauritania on 16 November 2021.


== Personal life ==
Akapo is the younger brother of the professional footballer Carlos Akapo.


== References ==


== External links ==
Javier Akapo at BDFutbol 
Javier Akapo at ESPN FC 
Javier Akapo at FBref.com 
Javier Akapo at Futbolme (in Spanish) 
Javier Akapo at LaPreferente.com (in Spanish) 
Javier Akapo at National-Football-Teams.com 
Javier Akapo at Soccerway 
Javier Akapo at WorldFootball.net

James McNamara (17 April 1939 – 9 March 2016) was an Irish athlete. He participated in the 1976 Olympics men's marathon, finishing 39th.
He continued to run into the masters age divisions, setting the M50 world record for 10,000 metres at 31:51.40 on 1 May 1989.  His record held until the 1991 Masters Athletics World Championships, when Ron Robertson was challenged by M45 record holder Antonio Villanueva, with both surpassing McNamara's record.
He died on 9 March 2016, aged 76.


== References ==

Bruno Henrique Fortunato Aguiar (born 25 March 1986), known as Bruno Aguiar, is a Brazilian retired footballer who played as a centre-back.


== Career ==
Born in Amparo, São Paulo, Bruno Aguiar began his career in youth football schools in his hometown before joining Ponte Preta in 2000. He remained six years at the club, being promoted to the first team in 2005, but failed to make any appearances.
In 2006, as his contract was not renewed, Bruno Aguiar moved abroad and joined Spanish Primera Andaluza side Barbate. Back to his home country in the following year, he signed for Grêmio Barueri, but only played for a B-team in the 2007 Copa Paulista.

Ahead of the 2008 season, Bruno Aguiar joined Mirassol. A regular starter in the 2008 Campeonato Paulista, he agreed to a deal with Figueirense on 30 May of that year.
Bruno Aguiar made his Série A debut on 7 June 2008, starting in a 5–0 away loss to Flamengo. He scored his first goal in the category on 23 August, but in a 2–1 home loss to Vitória, and was regularly used as his side suffered relegation.
Back to Mirassol for the 2009 Paulistão, Bruno Aguiar joined Série B side Guarani on 23 April of that year. On 18 December, after being an undisputed starter as the club achieved promotion to the top tier, he left after refusing a new deal.
On 23 December 2009, Bruno Aguiar agreed to a three-year contract with Santos, after the club bought 50% of his economic rights from Energy Sports. A backup option to Edu Dracena and Durval, he was a part of the squad which won the 2010 Copa do Brasil, 2011 Copa Libertadores and two Paulista titles; he also came on in the semifinals of the 2011 FIFA Club World Cup against Kashiwa Reysol, but did not feature in the final.
On 16 January 2012, Bruno Aguiar signed a two-year deal with Sport Recife. Despite being regularly used, he was loaned to São Caetano on 27 February 2013,
On 12 January 2014, Bruno Aguiar joined Joinville on a two-year contract. A first-choice, he helped the club in their top-tier promotion in his first season.
On 20 July 2016, Bruno Aguiar moved abroad and joined Qatar Stars League side Muaither SC for one year. Upon returning, he rescinded his contract with Joinville on 8 June 2017, and was presented at Goiás late in the month.
After only one appearance for Goiás, Bruno Aguiar returned to JEC on 17 January 2018. On 22 December, he moved to Brasil de Pelotas, before returning to his home state with Novorizontino on 19 December 2019.
Bruno Aguiar took part in the Novorizontino squads, which achieved two consecutive promotions, before leaving the club on 31 March 2022. On 5 April, he was announced at Brusque.
On 26 December 2022, Bruno Aguiar joined São Bento for the upcoming season. He played for Oeste in the 2024 Campeonato Paulista Série A2, before retiring shortly after at the age of 38.


== Career statistics ==


== Honours ==
Santos

Campeonato Paulista: 2010, 2011
Copa do Brasil: 2010
Copa Libertadores: 2011
Joinville
Campeonato Brasileiro Série B: 2014


== References ==


== External links ==

Sambafoot.com Profile at the Wayback Machine (archived 29 April 2011)
Bruno Aguiar at LaPreferente.com (in Spanish)

Castle Hill is an area and country estate in the community of Llanilar, Ceredigion, Wales. It is 70.2 miles (112.9 km) from Cardiff and 175.8 miles (282.9 km) from London. As of 2024, Castle Hill is represented in the Senedd by Ben Lake (Plaid Cymru) and is part of the Ceredigion Preseli constituency in the House of Commons.


== References ==


== See also ==
List of localities in Wales by population

Takmakkaran (Russian: Такмаккаран; Bashkir: Туҡмакҡаран, Tuqmaqqaran) is a rural locality (a village) in Ziriklinsky Selsoviet, Bizhbulyaksky District, Bashkortostan, Russia. The population was 47 as of 2010. There is 1 street.


== Geography ==
Takmakkaran is located 20 km southwest of Bizhbulyak (the district's administrative centre) by road. Maly Sedyak is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

Jovo (Serbian: Јово) is a given name, cognate to Jovan. Notable people called Jovo include:

Jovo Aranitović (born 1974), Montenegrin retired footballer
Jovo Bakić (born 1970), Serbian sociologist, associate professor at the University of Belgrade
Jovo Bećir (1870–1942), Montenegrin brigadier general and a colonel of the Royal Yugoslav Army
Jovo Bosančić (born 1970), retired Serbian footballer
Jovo Stanisavljević Čaruga (1897–1925), Serbian outlaw in Slavonia in the early 20th century
Jovo Čučković (born 1952), Serbian former football player and manager
Jovo Damjanović (born 1996), Montenegrin-born Qatari handball player
Jovo Ivanišević (1861–1889), Montenegrin composer
Jovo Kapičić (1919–2013), Yugoslav General and post-war communist politician
Jovo Kurtović (1718–1809), Serbian shipping magnate who lived and worked in Trieste
Jovo Lukić (born 1998), Bosnian professional footballer
Jovo Martinović, freelance investigative journalist in Montenegro
Jovo Mišeljić (1967–2023), Bosnian footballer
Jovo Ostojić (1952–2017), politician and paramilitary leader in Serbia
Jovo Pavlović (born 1989), Australian-Serbian football player
Jovo Rašković (1929–1992), Croatian Serb psychiatrist, academic and politician
Jovo Simanić (born 1965), Serbian retired footballer
Jovo Stanojević "Jovo" Stanojević (born 1977), Serbian former professional basketball player


== See also ==
Jova (disambiguation)
Jovi (disambiguation)

The Sikhs are adherents to Sikhism, the fifth largest organized religion in the world, with around 25 million adherents. Sikh History is around 500 years and in that time the Sikhs have developed unique expressions of art and culture which are influenced by their faith and synthesize traditions from many other cultures depending on the locality of the adherents of the religion. Sikhism is the only religion that originated in the Punjab region with all other religions coming from outside Punjab (with the possible exception of Punjabi Hinduism since the oldest Hindu scripture – the Rig Veda – was composed in the Punjab region.  Some other religions, like Jainism, may also claim to have originated in Punjab since Jain symbolism has been found among artifacts of the Indus Valley Civilization).  All the Sikh gurus, many saints, and many of the martyrs in Sikh history were from Punjab and from the Punjabi people (as well as other parts of the Indian subcontinent). 
Punjabi culture and Sikhism are mistakenly considered inseparably intertwined. "Sikh" properly refers to adherents of Sikhism as a religion, strictly not an ethnic group. However, because Sikhism has seldom sought converts, most Sikhs share strong ethno-religious ties, therefore it is a common stereotype that all Sikhs share the same ethnicity. Many countries, such as the U.K., therefore recognize Sikh as a designated ethnicity on their censuses. The American non-profit organization United Sikhs has fought to have Sikhs included on the U.S. census as well, arguing that Sikhs "self-identify as an 'ethnic minority'" and believe "that they are more than just a religion".


== Cultural societies of the Sikhs ==

There is a common misconception that all Sikhs belong to the Punjab region.  The religion's birthplace of Punjab itself has been called "India’s melting pot", and many other parts of Northern India due to the heavy influence of invading cultures, such as Mughal and Persian, that mirrors the confluence of rivers from which the region gets its name (from Persian, "panj" پنج meaning "five" and "-āb" آب meaning water thus meaning land of the five waters).  Thus, Sikh culture is to a large extent a result of groups of various cultures uniting together, thus forming a unique one.
Sikhism has forged a unique form of architecture which Bhatti describes as being "inspired by Guru Nanak’s creative mysticism" such that Sikh architecture "is a mute harbinger of holistic humanism based on pragmatic spirituality".  The keynote of Sikh architecture is the Gurdwara which is the personification of the "melting pot" of Indian cultures, full of Mughal, Aryan and Persian influences.
The reign of the Sikh Empire was the single biggest catalyst in the creation of a uniquely Sikh form of expression, with Maharajah Ranjit Singh patronising the building of forts, palaces, bungs (residential places), colleges, etc. that can be said to be of the Sikh Style.  The "jewel in the crown" of the Sikh Style is the Harmandir Sahib.
Sikh culture and identity are heavily influenced by militaristic motifs, with Khanda being the most obvious; thus it is no surprise that the majority of Sikh artifacts, independent of the relics of the Gurus, have a military theme.  This motif is again evident in the Sikh festivals of Hola Mohalla and Vasakhi which feature marching and practicing displays of valor, respectively.
The art, culture, identity, and society of the Sikhs have been merged with the different localities and ethnicities of different Sikhs into categories such as 'Agrahari Sikhs', 'Dakhni Sikhs' and 'Assamese Sikhs'; however there has emerged a niche cultural phenomenon that can be described as 'Political Sikh'.  The art of prominent diaspora Sikhs such as Amarjeet Kaur Nandhra, and Amrit and Rabindra Kaur Singh (The Singh Twins), is partly informed by their Sikh spirituality and influence.


== Physical culture ==

Physical fitness is a major part of Sikhism, having been a major part of the religion in the context of military preparedness from the time of the gurus. This saw the community become termed as a martial race by the British during the colonial era (see also: Sikhism and the British Empire).


== Culture of Sikh communities ==
Dusenbery (2014) states that Punjabi Sikhs form the majority of the Sikh population. He notes that "some Sindhis and other South Asians have been affiliated at the margins as Nanakpanthis (‘followers of Nanak’s path’) or Sehajdhari (‘slow adopter’) Sikhs" but in the main, "the Sikh Panth has remained largely a Punjabi affair".  However, the Sikh community is varied and includes people who speak the Pashto language, the Sindhi language, the Telugu language and many more. The many communities following Sikhism are detailed below.


=== Afghani Sikhs ===

The Sikhs of Afghanistan have a unique culture which has elements of the culture of Afghanistan. Tatla (2014) states that there were 3,000 Sikhs in Afghanistan in his book The Sikh Diaspora which was published in 2014.


=== American Sikhs ===

Yogi Bhajan is credited with raising awareness of Sikhism amongst the non-Asian community of the United States of America. This community is known as the white Sikh community which practices Sikhism and maintains a distinct culture.


=== Assamese Sikhs ===

The presence of Sikhism has existed in Assam for over 200 years. The community traces its origins to the times of Maharaja Ranjit Singh who took his army to Assam and put some influence of the religion towards the locals. According to the 2001 census, there were 22,519 Sikhs in Assam, out of which 4,000 are Assamese Sikhs.
Assamese Sikhs follow the Sikh religion and celebrate Sikh festivals. They also celebrate cultural festivals such as Magh Bihu and wear traditional Assamese dress. Their language is the Assamese language.


=== Agrahari Sikhs ===

Agrahari Sikh is a Sikh community found in eastern India including the states of West Bengal, Bihar and Jharkhand. Agrahari Sikhs, also known as Bihari Sikhs, have existed for centuries in Bihar and Jharkhand.
Bihari Sikhs share their culture with the local Bihari community. The men generally wear the local dhoti and women wear the sari. They also celebrate cultural festivals such as the Chath festival.


=== Dakhni Sikhs ===

Dakhni Sikhs are from the Deccan Plateau in India located within the states of Maharashtra, Telegana and Andhra Pradesh. The traditional dress of women is the sari. The native languages of Dakhni Sikhs include Marathi and Telugu.


=== Kashmiri Sikhs ===

Ethnic Kashmiri Sikhs speak the Kashmiri language and observe Kashmiri culture. They trace their religious heritage to the influence of Sikh soldiers who settled in Kashmir under Maharaja Ranjit Singh's rule in 1819. However, the soldiers permanently settled in Kashmir.


=== Punjabi Sikhs ===

Punjabi Sikhs follow the Punjabi culture. Their traditional dress includes the Punjabi Salwar Suit, Punjabi Tamba and Kurta, Punjabi juti and Patiala salwar.
In addition to the Sikh festivals  using the Nanakshahi calendar, Punjabi Sikhs observe traditional Punjabi festivals using the Punjabi calendar.


=== Sindhi Sikhs ===

In addition to celebrating Sikh festivals, Sindhi Sikhs celebrate cultural festivals such as Cheti Chand, the Sindhi new year. Sindhi Sikhs speak the Sindhi language. Khalsa Sikhs historically had a stronghold in Kandhra, Khairpur during the reign of the Talpur Mirs (1775–1955). However, most Sikhs in Sindh are followers of the Udasi, Sewapanthi, and Nanakpanthi sects. Only around 8,000–10,000 people in present-day Sindh are mainstream, orthodox Khalsa Sikh. The vast majority belong to the aforementioned sects whom may practice varying degrees of religious kinship and syncretism with Hinduism and Sufism. Udasis are generally concentrated in northern Sindh whilst Nanakpanthis can be found throughout the region except in areas of the Rajasthani cultural sphere (Dhatki-speaking areas) who practice a more mainstream, non-syncretic, and differentiated form of Hinduism. Nanakpanth and Udasipanth are different sects of Sikhism, with a major difference being that Udasis adopt a life-hood of celibacy whilst Nanakpanthis freely marry and bear children. Another Sikh sect, the Jagiasi, who claim to have been founded by the younger son of Guru Nanak named Lakhmi Das, were also historically prevalent in Sindh, especially during the period of Baba Gurupat, who was a descendant of Guru Nanak. Baba Gurupat conducted missionary works in Sindh and founded many Jagiasu tikanas (seats; a term for a place of worship in many Sikh sects) in the region, specifically in Khairpur, Hyderabad, Halani, and Kandyaro. Sindhis may have been converting to Sikhism ever since the time of Guru Nanak, who traveled to the region. Janamsakhi literature narrate that Guru Nanak traveled to Shikarpur, possibly as far as Sukkur. Sindhi women learnt the Gurmukhi script in-order to understand the Guru Granth Sahib. A lot of converts to Sikhism came from the Amil caste. The Chief Khalsa Diwan sent out orthodox Sikh missionaries to Sindh in the 1930s to preach towards Sehajdharis (literally "slow adopters"), which dominated the landscape of Sikhism in Sindh. The result was the number of Keshdhari (those who keep uncut hair) Sikhs recorded increasing from 1,000 in the 1901 census to over 39,000 in the 1941 census. Sant Thahriya Singh was a prominent Sindhi Sikh saint of the 20th century, and many gurdwaras are constructed in his name in the region.


=== South Indian Sikhs ===

There are Sikh communities in Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra who converted to Sikhism centuries ago.
The Sikhs comprise Banjara and Satnami. The process of blending the religion into southern India for the Sikligars began at the time of the 10th Sikh Guru Gobind Singh, who came to the Deccan and died in 1708 at Nanded (Maharashtra).
It all came by the Sikligars as they came to southern India as expert arms-making camp followers of the tenth Guru. Sikligar is a compound of the Persian words `saiqal` and `gar` meaning a polisher of metal. The traditional occupation of the Sikligars is crafting kitchen implements.
Banjaras are a nomadic tribe who traditionally travelled with merchandise and are found across a large swathe of northern India, as well as in the south. Sikh Banjaras too travelled with armies of the past supplying them with provisions.


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Sikh art
Indian art
Turban training centre
Sikh architecture
Sikh scriptures
History of Sikhism
Punjabi culture
Shastar Vidya
Sikh chola
Sikh Ajaibghar
Mehdiana Sahib


== References and notes ==

The 2020 Puerto Rico primaries may refer to:

2020 United States presidential primaries in Puerto Rico
2020 Puerto Rico Democratic primary
Territorial government primaries
2020 New Progressive Party of Puerto Rico primaries
2020 Popular Democratic Party of Puerto Rico primaries

"Laid" is the title track from Laid, the fifth studio album of Manchester alternative rock band James. Released on 1 November 1993 by Fontana Records, the song was a commercial success, charting in the United Kingdom, Australia, and the United States. "Laid" has received attention as a theme song for the American Pie film series.


== Composition and reception ==
The song includes the lyric "she only comes when she's on top". The American release of its music video replaced this lyric with "she only sings when she's on top" (although Tim Booth is seen to lip-sync the original line, and is accompanied by a subtitle reading "hums").
It quickly gained popularity on American college radio and remains the group's best-known song in the United States. 
The song peaked at number 61 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and number three on the Billboard Modern Rock Tracks chart, in part due to its cult status as a popular college song in the US. The song was more successful in the band's native UK, where it peaked at number 25, becoming the band's ninth top-40 hit.
One of the Three, the 'unofficial archive of the band James', has said this of the song:

Originally viewed by the band as a throwaway song and a possible b-side, Brian Eno soon convinced them of the potential of this track. Whilst only reaching a disappointing 22 in the UK charts, it made serious inroads for the band in the US where it led to performances on prime-time TV shows such as Letterman, Conan O'Brien and Jay Leno.


== Music video ==
The accompanying music video for "Laid" was directed by London-based director Zanna and produced by Deidre Allen for M-Ocean. It was released on 1 November 1993 and in the video, men in dresses redefine gender roles.


== Usage in American Pie ==
In the late 1990s and early 2000s, the song gained additional exposure and popularity when it was used as the theme song for the American Pie films starring Jason Biggs and Seann William Scott. A cover by Matt Nathanson was recorded exclusively for the third film American Wedding, and was later included on the first spin-off American Pie Presents: Band Camp's soundtrack after previously only being in the first two films' trailers. The seventh installment in the franchise, The Book of Love, contains a cover of "Laid" by singer Aidan Hawken; as of 2012, it had yet to be released on any album or as a single. The eighth film, American Reunion, features the original version by James played during the film.


== Track listings ==


== Charts ==


== Certifications ==


== Release history ==


== Covers ==
"Laid" was covered by New Orleans alt-rock band Better Than Ezra on their 2005 greatest hits compilation. It has been covered by the Butch Walker-led band 1969 on a hidden track on their album Maya. 
English band Palma Violets performed a version of the song in July 2015 for The A.V. Club's A.V. Undercover series. The song has also been covered by The Pains of Being Pure at Heart.


== In popular culture ==
"Laid" gained attention as a theme song for the American Pie film series. The song was also used during the episode "Forever" of the FX series The Bear.
The song was also used prominently in the final episode of Shameless.


== References ==

Dr. John A. Brown House, also known as the "Anchorage", is a historic home located at 4 7th Avenue, Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware. It was built in three phases.  The core is a 2+1⁄2-story, three-bay, side-hall plan, quarried granite dwelling with late Federal detailing.  It dates to the 1820s. Attached to the core is a brick kitchen
wing. Two square multiple-story brick Italian Villa towers were added to the north gable end later in the 19th century.  Also added at this time were the stucco exterior and a columned porch.
It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1979.


== References ==

The cost of HIV treatment is a complicated issue with an extremely wide range of costs due to varying factors such as the type of antiretroviral therapy and the country in which the treatment is administered. The first line therapy of HIV, or the initial antiretroviral drug regimen for an HIV-infected patient, is generally cheaper than subsequent second-line or third-line therapies. There is also a great variability of drug prices among low, middle, and high income countries. In general, low-income countries have the lowest cost of antiretroviral therapy, while middle- and high-income tend to have considerably higher costs. Certain prices of HIV drugs may be high and difficult to afford due to patent barriers on antiretroviral drugs and slow regulatory approval for drugs, which may lead to indirect consequences such as greater HIV drug resistance and an increased number of opportunistic infections. Government and activist movements have taken efforts to limit the price of HIV drugs.
In 2019 the government of India reported that it was supplying 2/3 of drugs for HIV treatment.


== Antiretroviral treatment costs ==
Drug companies market their antiretroviral drugs at different prices depending the type of drug and the target consumers. The cost of HIV treatment for first-line therapy has generally been lowest due to the availability of generic drugs designed for such treatment. If patients develop complications or resistance to first line therapy drugs, they may need to proceed to second-line or third-line therapy to successfully limit the HIV infection. Because there is a smaller market for such drug treatments, patients must often rely on considerably more expensive originators, or brand name drugs that were first approved for the market, to receive sufficient treatment. The costs of HIV treatment also tend to be cheaper in low-income countries as opposed to middle- and high-income countries, which may be attributed to the differences in price deals between governments and HIV drug companies. Low, middle, and high income countries are categorized according to the World Bank Atlas method, in which low-income countries had a GNI (gross national income) per capita of $995 or less in 2017, lower middle-income countries had a GNI per capita ranging from $996 to $3,895, upper middle-income countries had a GNI per capita ranging from $3,896 and $12,055, and high-income countries had a GNI per capita greater than or equal to $12,056.


=== First-line treatment ===
The first-line treatment is generally given to patients as an initial antiretroviral therapy and is the cheapest of the stages of treatments. The first-line antiretroviral drug treatment as recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) involves TDF (tenofovir), 3TC (lamivudine) or FTC (emtricitabine), and EFV (efavirenz) or dolutegravir (DTG).


==== Low-income countries ====
There have been considerable reductions in the prices of first-line treatments over several years in low-income countries, which may be due to the increased market competition among producers driving them to bring generic drug prices down. The President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), a US government initiative concentrated on curbing HIV infections in low-income, developing nations, estimated that first-line antiretroviral drug prices were reduced by 15% from 2004 to 2009 for their programs. In 2014, PEPFAR calculated the estimated mean total cost per patient-year of treatment in the programs, including financial and in-kind contributions from all sources (including partner governments and other bilateral and multilateral donors), is $757 and that in low-income and lower middle-income countries, the mean cost per patient year of treatment when taking into account all sources of support is $645. PEPFAR calculated that their share of the cost for first-line treatment was $286 per patient per year, a considerable price reduction from its 2003 price of $1100 per patient per year. According to Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), from 2014 to 2016, the prices of first-line antiretroviral drug treatment was cut down by roughly 30%, with the price for a recommended first-line regimen as low as $100 per patient per year. In 2018, the preferred first-line treatment of the fixed dose combination (FDC) TLD was available at $75 per patient per year.


==== Middle- and high-income countries ====
In middle- and high-income countries, the cost of first-line HIV treatment has been considerably greater than that of low-income countries. Middle- and high-income countries often have not been able import and use generic first-line drugs, which have caused them to resort to more expensive originator drugs. This can amount to considerably greater drug costs; for example, the 2016 generic drug price for TDF/FTC/EFV was $100 per patient per year, while the originator price for the same treatment was as high as $1033. Furthermore, the price of originator drug costs have tended to remain static, rendering it difficult to obtain price reductions. High-income countries have had issues involving expensive patented antiretroviral drugs; for example, in 2016 the TDF/FTV/EFV treatment was approximately $30,000 per patient per year in the US, whereas the generic medication only costed $100 per patient per year.


=== Second- and third-line treatment ===
For patients who failed first-line therapy, it may be necessary to transfer to second-line therapy in order to suppress HIV viral loads, and for patients who fail second-line therapy, it may be necessary transfer to third-line therapy. The failure rate of first-line antiretroviral regimen has been estimated to be approximately 15%, indicating that a portion of patients receiving antiretroviral drug treatment may need to switch to second- or third-line therapy. Switching to either of the therapies often involve a leap in prices; moving from first-line to second-line treatment may mean a nearly threefold increase in cost, and moving from second-line to third-line treatment may mean a nearly seven-fold increase in cost (eighteen-fold increase from first-line). Furthermore, countries often spend disproportionally on treatment by providing third-line regimens. In Morocco, the cost of treating 20 people with third-line treatment ($20,400 per patient per year) was comparable to the cost of treating 1700 people with first-line treatment ($240 per patient per year).


==== Low-income countries ====
According to PEPFAR in 2014, the average cost of second-line treatment was $657 versus the average cost for first-line treatment of $286. Despite the price jump from first-line to second-line treatment, second-line treatment costs have shown a pattern of decline for both originator and generic drugs. In 2016, AZT/3TC and ATV/r were the cheapest generic second-line drugs at a cost of $286 per patient per year, an 11% decrease from 2014. The WHO recommended the boosted protease inhibitors ATV/r and LPV/r for second-line treatments, but LPV/r has generally been more expensive. Third-line regimens reflect an even greater rise in costs, where the lowest price for a third-line treatment in 2016 was $1,859 per patient per year.


==== Middle- and high-income countries ====
Middle- and high-income countries have paid considerably higher prices relative to low-income countries for second- and third-line regimens. For example, the 2013 cost of LPV/r in second-line treatment in both Argentina ($2,570 per patient per year) and Mexico ($2,511 per patient per year) was over twelve-fold that of the price of LPV/r in South Africa ($204 per patient per year), and the 2014 cost of LPV/r in Malaysia was even greater (>$3,500 per patient per year). For third-line treatments, middle- and high-income countries have also faced challenges of expensive drug prices. In the US, the cost of third-line treatment was 41% greater than the cost of first-line treatment, at respective prices of $40,804 per patient per year and $28,861 per patient per year in 2013.


== High prices of HIV treatment ==
The high cost of certain antiretroviral drugs, especially those of middle- and high-income countries, has been a pressing issue which stemmed from a variety of factors and may have adverse and unintended consequences. Despite government and activist efforts to limit the price of HIV drugs, they have still often remained at unaffordable prices due to reasons such as patent barriers on antiretroviral drugs and slow regulatory approval. This may have indirect consequences including greater HIV drug resistance and an increased number of opportunistic infections. Various activist groups and movements have striven to overcome barriers of affordable drug prices and administer drugs in cost-effective manners, effectively reducing the prices of antiretroviral therapy to a considerable degree.


=== Reasons for high antiretroviral therapy prices ===
Many countries have had strict patent protections on originator drug brands, excluding these nations from various voluntary license agreements and often rendering them unable to attain antiretroviral drugs at affordable prices. For example, the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP) has actively worked with the drug industry to license drug products and bring them to more affordable prices with a wider range of access. However, because MPP drug licenses were often prohibited from violating active patents of various countries, they were unable to provide the cheaper generic drugs and negotiated licenses to such nations. The countries of Belarus, China, Malaysia and Kazakhstan have been prevented from obtaining generic DTG, a WHO recommended first-line antiretroviral therapy, due to their exclusion from MPP licenses. As such, the price of DTG in Belarus was $2190 per patient per year as opposed to $61 per patient per year from generic drug companies (2018). The United States has provided first-line TDF/FTC/EFV treatment as a patented, brand name drug (Atripla), which have caused their treatment costs (approximately $30,000 per patient per year) to be considerably higher than generic drug treatments ($100 per patient per year) (2016). Brazilian Health Minister Jose Serra announced in 2001 that his government could find no way to pay for the cost of patented HIV drugs, and would produce Hoffmann-La Roche's nelfinavir in violation of international patent laws in order to provide affordable HIV treatment for their citizens. Second- and third-line antiretroviral drugs have been even more susceptible to increased prices from patented drugs due to a lack of generic drug providers. For example, the biopharmaceutical company AbbVie charged $740 per patient per year for second-line LPV/r in middle- and high-income countries and $231 per patient per year in low-income countries (2016).
Excessive patent protection may also be attributed to evergreening, or methods to extend patents that are about to expire. Drug companies may extend patents well beyond their original expiration date by making slight modifications to their drug, preventing antiretroviral drugs from attaining reduced prices. For example, GSK added a secondary patent for abacavir (ABC) with only minor changes and was able to effectively extend its patent of the drug by eight years in Ukraine. As such, the price of ABC in Ukraine has been as high as $277.40 per patient per year while other countries with the equivalent generic drug offered them at $123.42 per patient per year (2016). The brand name drug Truvada, which provides the WHO recommended treatment of TDF/FTC, has also been able to extend its original patent expiry year of 2017 to 2026 through minor modifications to the drug.
Delayed processes in patent approval may also be a barrier to lower HIV treatment costs. Especially for third-line drugs, slow regulatory approval can limit the market of antiretroviral drugs available, leading to originator companies providing sole-source products and gaining nearly complete control of drug prices. Slow regularly approval may often be attributed to data and market exclusivity rules, which are intended to protect clinical data submitted for patent approval and prevent other competitors from entering the market, respectively. For example, originator brands have 8 years of data exclusivity and 2 years of market exclusivity in Europe, which has allowed Gilead Sciences to have exclusivity on treatments of TDF, TDF/FTC, and TDF/FTC/EFV for 10 years each, preventing other marketing during this time.


=== Consequences of high antiretroviral therapy costs ===
Some consequences of high antiretroviral drug prices include greater occurrences of HIV resistance and an increase in the number of opportunistic infections. Patients may have financial difficulties obtaining access to expensive drugs, resulting in greater difficulties in adhering to recommended drug regimens for adequate viral suppression. For example, the lack of cheap and easily accessible generic pediatric DTG has contributed to inadequate nevirapine-based treatments in 40% of children who followed an HIV treatment regimen. With suboptimal adherence to treatment, there is an increased risk of HIV drug resistance in which the previously used treatment would no longer adequately suppress the HIV infection. The detection for HIV resistance can also be difficult and expensive as well, rendering lower-middle income countries unable to have access to various resistance tests and identifying resistant patients for treatment switches. HIV patients who have already developed resistance to first-line treatment are often barred from overcoming their resistance due to the difficulty in obtaining second- or third-line treatments, which can be several times more expensive than first-line treatment.
In individuals infected with HIV, they may also have a weakened immune system, rendering them more susceptible to opportunistic infections such as invasive cervical cancer, Kaposi's sarcoma, and tuberculosis. The high price of antiretroviral drugs may act as a barrier to HIV treatment, thereby increasing the likelihood of developing an opportunistic infection. Taking the recommended drug regimen for HIV is particularly useful in the prevention and treatment costly opportunistic infections. For example, antiretroviral therapy has been able to assist in the prevention of tuberculosis, pneumocystis pneumonia, Kaposi sarcoma, and severe bacterial infections, and may be useful in treating tuberculosis.


=== Activism to reduce antiretroviral therapy costs ===

Throughout the past decade, there have been activist movements that have influenced the procurement lower HIV drug prices at greater accessibility. In 2000, the cost for first-line treatment was over $10,000 per patient per year, and nearly two decades later in 2018, the cost has decreased to as low as $75 per patient per year.

In 1987, AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power (ACT UP) was the first international organization designed to advocate for people with HIV. On September 14, 1989, members of ACT UP protested at the New York Stock Exchange over the Burroughs Wellcome's setting a price of US$10,000 per year for AZT, which was the only effective treatment for HIV discovered and was unaffordable to many HIV positive persons. Several days later in response to the protest the company lowered the price of AZT to $6,400 per patient per year, a 20% reduction.
In 1997, the South African government attempted to make legal amendments to import patented HIV drugs at more affordable prices due to their severe inaccessibility in developed countries. In response, 39 pharmaceutical companies filed a class action lawsuit. The lawsuit would eventually be dropped years later in 2001 due to public backlash. The government's legal challenge was an important case which brought attention and urgency to the issue of unaffordable antiretroviral therapy, spurring greater activism in reducing HIV drug prices.
In 1999 at the United Nations in Geneva, AIDS activists proposed compulsory licensing for antiretroviral drugs, which would enable other non-patent holders to produce the drugs at lower market costs. The idea of taking legal measures to limit the price of HIV treatment continued to spread globally. In 1998, Brazil was the first developing nation to implement a national HIV-reduction program which produced generic versions of originator drugs, allowing consumers to purchase antiretroviral drugs at prices that were on average 79% lower than the market price before. In 2000, the Treatment Action Campaign of the International AIDS Conference in Durban prioritized increasing access to antiretroviral drugs and created the Global March for Treatment. Later on that year, a global summit in Okinawa, Japan, founded the Global Fund to optimize international funding for curbing HIV and other diseases.
In response to rising public pressures, pharmaceutical companies began to sell antiretroviral drugs at discounted prices through the Accelerating Access Initiative; however, even at the discounted prices the brand name drugs still were not as affordable as their generic counterparts. In 2001, India released a generic antiretroviral drug treatment for $350 per patient per year at a time when the originator version would have cost approximately $1000 per patient per year. This great price difference demonstrated the possibility of considerably more affordable antiretroviral drug costs to the public, prompting greater widespread activism. That same year at the World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference, the Doha Declaration on the TRIPS agreement and public health was adopted, emphasizing that nations should not be hindered by intellectual property rights when promoting public health.
In 2003, HIV/AIDS was officially declared a global health emergency by the WHO, and for the next several years, with the combined effort and funding from organizations such as national governments, the Global Fund, and PEPFAR, the cost of HIV treatment was able to decline and accessibility to generic drug brands increased, especially in developing nations. In 2010, the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP) was founded for the purpose of negotiating with pharmaceutical companies to reduce drug prices for treatment of HIV as well as other diseases, allowing countries who are part of the agreement to further offer reduced drug prices to consumers.


== References ==

This is a list of notable films financed by J. Arthur Rank and The Rank Organisation


== 1930s ==


=== 1935 ===


=== 1936 ===


=== 1937 ===


=== 1938 ===


=== 1939 ===


== 1940s ==


=== 1940 ===


=== 1941 ===


=== 1942 ===


=== 1943 ===


=== 1944 ===


=== 1945 ===


=== 1946 ===


=== 1947 ===


=== 1948 ===


=== 1949 ===


== 1950s ==


=== 1950 ===


=== 1951 ===


=== 1952 ===


=== 1953 ===


=== 1954 ===


=== 1955 ===


=== 1956 ===


=== 1957 ===


=== 1958 ===


=== 1959 ===


== 1960s ==


=== 1960 ===


=== 1961 ===


=== 1962 ===


=== 1963 ===


=== 1964 ===


=== 1965 ===


=== 1966 ===


=== 1967 ===


=== 1968 ===


=== 1969 ===


== 1970s ==


=== 1970 ===


=== 1971-72 ===


=== 1973-74 ===


=== 1975-77 ===


=== 1978 ===


=== 1979 ===


== 1980s ==


== 1990s ==

owned by ITV as part of the ITC Entertainment library though were distributed by Rank for UK cinema in the original years of release they are not sold and distributed by ITV under the Rank Collection.
now owned and distributed by FIFA Films
! owned by Fremantle Media/MGM/Disney as part of the ABC Motion Picture library


== Notes ==
Falk, Quentin (1987). The golden gong : fifty years of the Rank Organisation, its films and its stars. Columbus Books.


== References ==

Whitsett is an unincorporated community in northwestern Live Oak County, Texas, United States. It lies at the intersection of U.S. Route 281 and FM 99, along the Union Pacific Railroad and fifteen miles north of Three Rivers.The community was founded in 1913 when the Missouri Pacific Railroad was built through the county on land originally granted to John Houlihan. Whitsett is best known as being the setting for the 2008 horror film The Wild Man of the Navidad.


== Climate ==
The climate in this area is characterized by hot, humid summers and generally mild to cool winters.  According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Whitsett has a humid subtropical climate, abbreviated "Cfa" on climate maps.


== References ==

The ammunition train was an element of armies in 19th and 20th century warfare. They were responsible for transporting the artillery and infantry ammunition of each division from the ammunition refilling point to the area of engagement. The train itself may have been a literal train, but in most cases was not, the 'train' being the military term. Depending on the era, its conveyance would be horse-drawn wagon or motor vehicles, and it was assigned the necessary personnel and equipment to fulfill these roles.
Their traditional capacity has been largely superseded in modern combat. In the first 200 years of existence of the United States Military, each combat division was supposed to have an ammunition train assigned to its field artillery brigade, though this was not always the case.


== References ==

The Slaughter of St. Teresa's Day is a play by Australian author Peter Kenna.


== Plot ==
Oola Maguire, a bookie, holds a party every St. Teresa's Day. The guests are the people she has quarreled with in the past year, and there is only one rule: Firearms must be parked in the hall. Her daughter Thelma is brought home from the convent she attends with two nuns.


== Background ==

It won a National Playwrights Competition in 1958 and was produced in Sydney the following year by the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust. The judges of the competition were Hugh Hunt and Kylie Tennant.
Judge Kylie Tennant called it "a witty commentary on human behaviour, passion, pride and vanity and the curious innocence which keeps people lovable for all their cunning and downright wickedness. It has humour, tolerance and the ability to bring people on the stage alive."
Kenna wrote the play while rehearsing in The Bells Are Ringing at the Princess Theatre in Melbourne. "Sometimes its easier to write when you have to squeeze time in for writing", he said.
Kenna said the play was "about outlaws. Not outlaws in the sense that they are rejected by society, but outlaws in the sense that they break some of the rules."
Kenna revised the play for publication by Currency Press in 1972. According to one account "Some scenes have been re-written so that what was formerly spelt out in dialogue is now left to visual symbolism and the audience's imagination; an entire scene in which the statue of St Teresa was smashed has been removed. Not only did this parallel too closely the smashing of the dolls in 'The Summer of the Seventeenth Doll' but its purpose was only to underline a point already well established."


== 1959 original stage production ==

The original 1959 stage production was directed by Robin Lovejoy. It was the fourth "straight" Australian play from the Elizabethan Theatre Trust.
Kenna wrote the part of Oona for Neva Carr Glynn. "It's one of the most difficult parts I've had", she said. "But it's a magnificent one."


=== Original cast ===
Neva Carr Glynn as Oola Maguire
Grant Taylor as Horrie Darcel
Dinah Shearing as Wilma Cartwright
Frank Waters as Paddy Maguire
Dorothy Whitely as Essie Farrell
Des Rolfe as Charlie Gibson
Patricia Connolly as Thelma
Rodney Milgate as Whitey Maguire
Diana Bell as Sister Mary Francis
Philippa Baker as Sister Mary Mark
Mary Mackay as Sister Mary Luke
Reg Lye as Barney


=== Reception ===
The Sydney Morning Herald said the play "has the kind of power and color to give much incidental excitement immediately to an audience."
The Sydney Tribune said it was "a play that every theatre-lover should see; whether you like it or loathe it, you won't be bored by it." The Woman's Weekly called it "a lively, amusing play that deserves a good run."
The Bulletin called it "a study in opposites, but there is no real conflict. The main action is between mother and daughter, and since from Act I mother has acquiesced in daughter's going into a convent, if only to get rid of her, there is no real feeling of a problem solved when she goes there. A play like this, fact piled on fact, spaced-out by "delicious cameos", or conversation pieces that hold-up the plot, increases one's regressive nostalgia for the play-of-stratagem, where a conflict of wills produces a swift continuity of action and counteraction."
Reviewing it years later, Filmink magazine said the play "has a brilliant core character, a fascinating world, a rogue's gallery of colourful support players, clever dramatic set-ups that you know are going to be paid off in exciting ways (“guns left at the door”, “no drinking”), and a very solid dramatic situation (a gangster tries to seduce a criminal mother and convent-educated daughter). Kenna writes with a wonderful compassion, humour and empathy for these outsiders; he seems to like, and understand, all his characters, be they prostitutes, murderers or nuns."


== 1960 Australian TV adaptation ==
See The Slaughter of St. Teresa's Day (1960 film)


== Radio ==
Kenna adapted the play for radio in a version which broadcast in 1960 and 1961.


== 1962 British TV adaptation ==

The play was filmed by the BBC in 1962, when Kenna was living in England.
The Sunday Times reviewing a later Kenna play Goodbye Gloria Goodbye said it was "not wholly successful, but like Kenna's earlier The Slaughter of St Teresa's Day... of a distinctive flavour"


=== Cast ===
Susannah York as Thelma Maguire
Madge Ryan as Oola Maguire
Vincent Ball as Horrie Darcel
Maggie Fitzgibbon as Wilma
J.G. Devlin as Paddy Maguire
Molly Urquhart as Sister Mary Luke
Margaret Wedlake as Sister Mary Mark
Ethel Gabriel as Essie Farrell
Johnny Briggs as Whitey Maguire
John Tate (actor) as Charlie
Reg Lye as Barney


=== Radio ===
The play also aired on British radio in 1963.


== References ==


== External links ==
The Slaughter of St Teresa's Day at IMDb
Australian productions at AusStage
Play details at AustLit
Program from original production at the Trust

Robert Hastie Stenhouse (1924–1990) was an England international lawn and indoor bowls competitor.


== Bowls career ==
Stenhouse won the 1963 national fours title at the England Men's National Championships when bowling for Wellingborough Town BC.
He captained England at the 1966 World Outdoor Bowls Championship, where he won a bronze medal in the team event (Leonard Trophy).
He represented England in the rinks (fours), at the 1970 British Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh, Scotland, with Harold Powell, Norman Hook and Cliff Stroud.
During the 1972 World Outdoor Bowls Championship, he was the England team manager and was also an indoor international from 1968-1972.


== Personal life ==
He took up bowls with his father in 1947 and was married in 1953.


== References ==

Ian Kidd (born May 11, 1964) is an American former professional ice hockey defenseman. He played 20 games for the Vancouver Canucks of the National Hockey League (NHL) between 1987 and 1989, but spent the bulk of his professional career in the minor International Hockey League. Prior to turning professional Kidd played college hockey at the University of North Dakota, winning the NCAA championship in 1987. The Detroit Red Wings initially selected him first overall in the 1986 NHL Supplemental Draft, but the claim was invalidated after it was determined Kidd didn't meet eligibility requirements.


== Career statistics ==


=== Regular season and playoffs ===


== Awards and honors ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or Hockey-Reference.com, or The Internet Hockey Database

The 1928 Villanova Wildcats football team represented the Villanova University during the 1928 college football season. The head coach was Harry Stuhldreher, coaching his fourth season with the Wildcats. The team played their home games at Villanova Stadium in Villanova, Pennsylvania.


== Schedule ==


== References ==

In linguistics, an object pronoun is a personal pronoun that is used typically as a grammatical object: the direct or indirect object of a verb, or the object of a preposition. Object pronouns contrast with subject pronouns. Object pronouns in English take the objective case, sometimes called the oblique case or object case.
For example, the English object pronoun me is found in "They see me" (direct object), "He's giving me my book" (indirect object), and "Sit with me" (object of a preposition); this contrasts with the subject pronoun in "I see them," "I am getting my book," and "I am sitting here."


== English ==
The English personal and interrogative pronouns have the following subject and object forms:


== Archaic second person forms ==
Historically, Middle English and Early Modern English retained the T–V distinction; the second person pronoun had separate singular/familiar and plural/formal forms with subject and object forms of both.  In standard modern forms of English, all second person forms have been reduced to simply "you".  These forms are still retained (sometimes partially) in some dialects of Northern English, Scottish English, and in the Scots language, a Germanic language closely related to English which diverged from it during the Early Modern period.


== Other languages ==
In some languages the direct object pronoun and the indirect object pronoun have separate forms. For example, in the Spanish object pronoun system, direct object: Lo mandaron a la escuela (They sent him to school) and indirect object: Le mandaron una carta (They sent him a letter). Other languages divide object pronouns into a larger variety of classes.
On the other hand, many languages, for example Persian, do not have distinct object pronouns: Man Farsi balad-am (I can speak Persian). Man ra mishenasad. (He knows me).


== History ==
Object pronouns, in languages where they are distinguished from subject pronouns, are typically a vestige of an older case system. English, for example, once had an extensive declension system that specified distinct accusative and dative case forms for both nouns and pronouns. And after a preposition, a noun or pronoun could be in either of these cases, or in the genitive or instrumental cases. With the exception of the genitive (the "apostrophe-s" form), in nouns this system disappeared entirely, while in personal pronouns it collapsed into a single case, covering the roles of both accusative and dative, as well as all instances after a preposition. That is, the new oblique (object) case came to be used for the object of either a verb or a preposition, contrasting with the genitive, which links two nouns.
For a discussion of the use of historically object pronouns in subject position in English (e.g. "Jay and me will arrive later"), see the article on English personal pronouns.


== See also ==
Object (grammar)
Subject (grammar)


== References ==

Richard Ehrenberg (5 February 1857 – 17 December 1921) was a German economist.
He taught at Rostock University from 1899 to 1921.


== Literary works ==
Hamburg und Antwerpen seit 300 Jahren, 1889
Hamburg und England im Zeitalter der Königin Elisabeth, 1896
Das Zeitalter der Fugger, 2 Vols., 1896, -- an English translation is also available: Richard Ehrenberg, Capital & Finance in the Age of the Renaissance: A Study of the Fuggers and Their Connections, 1928, reprinted 1985
Das Familie in ihrer Bedeutung für das Volksleben, 1916


== External links ==
Gründung des Thünen-Archivs (PDF)

The Leo Baeck Day School is a Greater Toronto Area Reform Jewish day school in Ontario, Canada composed of around nine hundred students from Nursery to Grade Eight. Named in honour of Rabbi Leo Baeck, it has one campus in Toronto and formerly one campus in Vaughan.
In October 2018, The Leo Baeck Day School announced they were closing their Vaughan campus at the end of the 2018-19 school year due to a lack of enrollment.


== General ==
Leo Baeck is the only Jewish IB (International Baccalaureate) World School and the largest Reform Jewish day school in Canada.
The school is run by the Head of School, Eric Petersiel, the principal, Adina Lubek, and a Board of Directors, composed of parents and members of the community. The school is affiliated with the Centre for Jewish Education of the UJA Federation of Greater Toronto, the Union for Reform Judaism, and PARDeS, the Progressive Association of Reform Day Schools.
The school includes Junior Kindergarten through Grade 8. Leo Baeck publishes "Baeck and Call" a bi-annual magazine that showcases the school and its community.


== School history ==
The Leo Baeck Day School opened in 1974 at Toronto’s Temple Emanu-El with fewer than 40 students. Morris Sorin was the founding Director.  The founding parents envisioned a school with a reputation for excellence in both general and Jewish studies, attracting liberal Jewish families, including those who had never before considered Jewish day school education.  The School was supported and funded by Reform synagogues across Toronto with the vision that it would model and teach the core values of Reform Judaism. With growth and the need for more room, the School moved to Temple Sinai and then to the portable classroom facilities near York Mills Collegiate. Next, the School moved to Kenton Drive Public School – a surplus Toronto District School Board (TDSB) building.
In 1994, the school found a permanent home at 36 Atkinson Avenue in Thornhill. At the time, the space was built as a centre for Reform Judaism and included facilities for CCRJ and community mikvah (still in use) in addition to the day school.  The North Campus moved further north to Jewish Community Centre at Rutherford and Bathurst due to dwindling enrolment. Eventually the North Campus closed in 2018 with remaining students either moving to other local schools or being bussed to the Toronto campus.
The South Campus opened in 1992 at the Holy Blossom Temple, with fewer than 20 students. Steady growth of the South Campus over an 11-year period created the need for an independent facility and in the fall of 2012, the school moved into the newly renovated facility that was formerly the Arlington Middle School. A year before, Leo Baeck purchased the building when it became surplus by the Toronto District School Board. The move brought enrolment from 360 to 455 in one year, including three new Junior Kindergarten classes, extra Senior Kindergarten and an additional Grade 1 class.


=== New direction ===
In January 2011, the school was accepted as an official International Baccalaureate school for the Middle School years. The introduction of This transition to becoming an IB School culminated with the school being accepted as into IB's Primary Years Programme. 
Since the initiation of the International Baccalaureate Program, the school has taken a more progressive approach to learning, including the introduction of technology in the curriculum. That consists of the installation of a SMARTBoard in every classroom, hard-wired and mobile computer labs used by all grades - including dedicated one-to-one Chrome OS devices for students from grade 3 to 5, iPads for students from Kindergarten through Grade 2, use of web-based technology to enable cross-campus planning and collaboration, and the development of a new IB-based Middle School Technology course that was implemented in 2010-2011. In 2017, the school achieved accreditation as a Canadian Accredited Independent School (CAIS). The CAIS seal denotes commitment to going above and beyond in delivering an effective and impactful education by evaluating every aspect of the school’s operations.
New North campus and closing of North campus
In November 2016, the school announced that its North Campus would move locations to the Kimel Family Education Centre, to share space with TanenbaumCHAT before the 2017-18 year. This was an attempt to increase both schools' declining enrolment. Instead, the move brought down enrolment from an already small 210 to 140. In result, the school shut down the next year. The building has now been changed to the Kayla's Children Centre, a school specializing in children with disabilities.


== References ==

The South East Coast of America Station was a formation of the Royal Navy which existed from 1838 until just after the end of the 19th century.


== History ==
The station was separated from the Pacific Station in 1838 in order to combat the slave trade in Brazil. In its early years it was often referred to as the "Brazils and River Plate Station". In the mid-1840s Rear Admiral Samuel Inglefield took decisive action to keep the Paraná River open so ensuring continuity of trade during the Uruguayan Civil War.
The station suffered significant ship reductions between 1869 and 1874. From 1870 it was commanded by a captain, designated the "senior officer", and comprised just three gunboats although it had responsibility for the Western Atlantic from Brazil South. The squadron's only permanent base was a coal station at Stanley on the Falkland Islands. It was disbanded altogether in 1905. Its area of operation, along with that of the Pacific Station, was ultimately absorbed, in 1928, into that of the North America and West Indies Station, with its main base at the Royal Naval Dockyard in the Imperial fortress colony of Bermuda, which was redesignated the America and West Indies Station.


== Commanders ==
Commanders included:

Commodore Thomas Sulivan (1838–1841)
Commodore John Purvis (1842–1844)
Rear Admiral Samuel Inglefield (1844–1846)
Commodore Thomas Herbert (1847–1849)
Rear Admiral Barrington Reynolds (1849–1851)
Rear Admiral William Henderson (1851–1854)
Rear Admiral William Hope-Johnstone (1854–1857)
Rear Admiral Provo Wallis (May 1857 – September 1857)
Rear Admiral Stephen Lushington (1858–1860)
Rear Admiral Henry Keppel (1860–1861)
Rear Admiral Richard Warren (1861–1864)
Rear Admiral Charles Elliot (1864–1866)
Rear-Admiral George Ramsay (1866–1869)
Commodore Charles James Norcock (1898–1899)
Commodore Robert Leonard Groome (1899–1902)
Commodore Frank Finnis (1902–1904)


== References ==


== Sources ==
Brown, David (1987). The Royal Navy and Falklands War. Pen & Sword Books. ISBN 978-0850520590.
Bourne, Kenneth (2008). Britain and the Balance of Power in North America, 1815-1908. ACLS History E-Book Project. ISBN 978-1597404075.
Heathcote, Tony (2002). The British Admirals of the Fleet 1734 – 1995. Pen & Sword. ISBN 0-85052-835-6.
O'Hara, Vincent (2013). To Crown the Waves: the Great Navies of the First World War. Naval Institute Press. ISBN 978-1612510828.
Preston, Antony; Major, John (2007). Send a Gunboat!: 150 Years of the British Gunboat. Conway. ISBN 978-0851779232.

Lerew is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Anthony Lerew (born 1982), American baseball player
John Lerew (1912–1996), Royal Australian Air Force officer


== See also ==
Laroo (disambiguation)
LeDrew
Leroux (surname)

Jamal Mohamed Barrow (Somali: Jamaal Maxamed Barrow, Arabic: جمال محمد بارو) is a diplomat from Somalia. He was born in Golweyn, a village in lower Shabelle region, Somalia, on 1 July 1957. He has
married with a number of children.
He gained his first degree in Journalism in the Faculty of Journalism of the Somalia National
University in 1984 and he did his second degree in Business Administration in Moi University in
Nairobi, Kenya, in 2006. Barrow is the Ambassador of Somalia to Nigeria, based at the Somali embassy in Nigeria. In October 2019,
he was appointed as the new Somali Ambassador to the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He
became the first ambassador accredited to Nigeria since the collapse of the central
government of Somalia in 1991. Mr. Barrow was Somalia's Deputy Foreign Affairs minister between December 2012 and November, 2013.
Professionally, from 1995 to 2020, he held a number of positions which include

Peace building and conflict resolution, and civic education trainer: In this sector, he
facilitated numerous sessions of workshops on peace building and conflict resolution,
leadership, gender & development, team building, community development and
mobilization, project management, entrepreneurship, fundraising, Participatory Rural
Appraisal (PRA), ToT, project evaluation and monitoring, strategic planning, board
management, human rights and democracy, networking, and customer services given to
various Somali Society organizations including, community elders, local authorities,
teachers, youth groups, parliament members, women groups like Coalition of Grass-root
Women organizations, SAACID Voluntary Organization, and CORD as well as other
NGOs/CBOs and networks

Consultant management: In 2002, Ambassador Barrow established his own consultant
firm called Center for Training and Consultancy (CTC). The center's focus was on
proving with consultant and training services to both governmental and nongovernmental institutions. From 2002 – 2011, CTC established working relationship
with a various international and local organizations including UN agencies

In 2011, in response to a request from the then transitional government, Ambassador
Barrow developed a concept on establishing the NATIONAL Disaster Management
Authority and the idea had been accepted by the then President, Mr. Sharif Sheikh
Ahmed and his prime minister, Mr Abdiweli Ahmed Gas. Then, Ambassador Barrow
was mandated to translate the concept into workable organizational document. Then, the
disaster management authority was officially launched in the end of 2011. Ambassador
Barrow was appointed the deputy chair of the entity. Later, in 2017, the Disaster
Management Authority was promoted to ministerial level, becoming Ministry of
Humanitarian and Disaster Management of the Federal Republic of Somalia

By mid of 2012, Ambassador Barrow shifted to politics and he became member of the
spearheading team of the presidential election campaign of Mr. Hassan Sheikh, who
succeeded in the presidential contest in the 2012. In October 2012, Mr. Hassan took
over the power from Mr. Sharif Sheikh Ahmed. In Hassan Sheikh's government,
Ambassador Barrow was appointed as the deputy minister of the Foreign Affairs and he
was holding this position only for one year. In August 2014, President Hassan Sheikh
appointed Ambassador Barrow as his advisor on the parliament and cabinet affairs. In
April 2015, the cabinet approved that Ambassador Barrow to be the second ambassador
that government of Somalia sent to the Republic of South Africa and had been there for
four years. During the four year, Ambassador Barrow also was in charge seven other
countries in the southern Africa region as a non-resident ambassador. In October 2019,
he was appointed as the new Somali Ambassador to the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He
became the first ambassador accredited to Nigeria since the collapse of the central
government of Somalia in 1991.
Networking and Participation conference and seminars
Since 1995 Ambassador Jamal Mohamed Barrow became part of several international and
national networks in which he played significant roles. He had also participated in a number of
international forums and seminars.


== References ==


== External links ==
Interview Archived 10 October 2018 at the Wayback Machine

Seastreak is a private ferry company operating in the Port of New York and New Jersey and in New England. It provides high-speed commuter service between points on the Raritan Bayshore in Monmouth County, New Jersey and in Manhattan in New York City as well as special event and sightseeing excursions in the harbor and seasonal service to the New England coast.


== History ==
Seastreak began operation in 1986 as TNT Hydrolines, a subsidiary of TNT of Australia operating commuter ferry services between New Jersey and New York City.
In 1994 all of TNT's maritime assets were acquired by Holyman of Australia and the ferry service name was changed to Express Navigation. In 1999 Sea Containers acquired Express Navigation. The company was renamed Seastreak. Following Sea Containers filing for bankruptcy in 2006, Seastreak was sold to New England Fast Ferry in 2008.


== Vessels ==

Seastreak operates a fleet of ten diesel-powered double-hulled catamarans. The 
MV Nantucket Express is propelled by a Servogear CPP Propeller System, while the  MV Seastreak Highlands, MV Nantucket Express, MV Seastreak New Jersey, and MV Seastreak New York are propelled by high speed water jets. These vessels all 141 foot long, owned by Seastreak; each has a capacity of 505 passengers and travels at a top speed of 38 knots (44 mph). The vessels were designed in Australia by Incat Designs, and built in the United States by the Gladding-Hearn Shipbuilding in Somerset, Massachusetts.
The Ocean State is a 65-foot vessel owned by New England Fast Ferry; it has a capacity of 149 passengers and can travel up to 29 knots (33 mph). It is used as the ferry for the seasonal Providence to Newport route.  The vessel was built by Merrifield-Roberts of Bristol. It is propelled by a pair of ZF propellers.

The Martha's Vineyard Express and Whaling City Express are 95-foot vessels owned by New England Fast Ferry and have a capacity of 149 passengers and can travel up to 29 knots (33 mph). The vessels were built by Derecktor Shipyards of Mamaroneck. They operate between the Port of New Bedford and Martha's Vineyard during the summer months but began a reduced year-round service in 2023. They are propelled by fixed-pitched propellers.
Past vessels have included the Seastreak Manhattan, the Seastreak Brooklyn, and the Seastreak Liberty, among a few others. All of these catamaran ferries were designed by Incat Designs.
Seastreak announced construction of a 600-passenger high-speed luxury ferry in September 2016 for service between the Jersey Shore and Manhattan, anticipated to enter service in 2017. Construction took longer than planned, and the vessel, named the Commodore, was launched in March 2018, entering service the next month. The vessel has 520 seats indoors and 240 seats outdoors, with a top speed of 35 knots, and a length of 150 feet. It is propelled by high speed water jets.
The Courageous was delivered in December 2021 but initially remained out of service due to decreased ridership following the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States. It was built with the intention of accommodating more passengers on its East Side route as well as running the New Jersey/New York to Martha's Vineyard/Nantucket trips. The Courageous has a length of 157 feet. It is currently the largest high-speed passenger ferry in the United States. It is propelled by high speed water jets.
The Millennium is the tenth and newest member of the Seastreak ferry fleet, built in 1998, It began its Seastreak service on July 31, 2023. It is primarily utilized to accommodate passengers traveling between Belford/Middletown and Manhattan. The vessel can hold 406 passengers and crew as well as reach a top speed of 36 knots. Before its extensive refit in early 2023, it served as a member of the Rhode Island Fast Ferry fleet out of Quonset Point, Rhode Island and was originally built by Gladding-Hearn Shipbuilding. It is propelled by high speed water jets.


== Routes ==
Seastreak routes connect the towns of Atlantic Highlands and Highlands in Monmouth County, New Jersey with Battery Maritime Building Slip 5 and the East 34th Street Ferry Landing on the East River in Manhattan. Seastreak also connects Belford to BMB, Battery Park City Ferry Terminal, Paulus Hook Ferry Terminal, and West Midtown Ferry Terminal on the Hudson River. During the morning rush hour, the trip from the Raritan Bayshore to Manhattan takes approximately 40 minutes. From Memorial Day weekend through Labor Day weekend, service is also provided to the public beaches in Sandy Hook a few times each day. Service used to be provided to Yankee Stadium for select New York Yankees games and to Citi Field for New York Mets games on weekends. However, that service was discontinued before the COVID-19 pandemic hit. In March of 2025, it was announced that Seastreak would restart service to select Mets games at Citi Field and will depart from Highlands, NJ and the St. George Terminal on Staten Island, New York. The company has long offered "special event cruises" such as sightseeing excursions, sunset cruises, trips to Broadway matinees, college football games at West Point, the Macy's Fourth of July fireworks, the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, and to see the fall foliage in the Hudson Valley.

On July 17, 2009, Seastreak began providing weekend service from Highlands, NJ and New York City to Martha's Vineyard. One ferry departs New York City on Friday afternoon and returns on Sunday night. The trip through Long Island Sound and along the shoreline of Rhode Island and Massachusetts takes approximately five to six hours. The seasonal service was extended to Nantucket beginning in 2015. Before launching its service to Martha's Vineyard, Seastreak had expressed an interest in providing a similar service on summer weekends to Sag Harbor in the Hamptons, but there were concerns over traffic and ferry service is a non-permitted use in the village code.


=== Hurricane Sandy service ===
After Hurricane Sandy in October 2012 destroyed much of the IND Rockaway Line (A train), severing most subway service between the Rockaway peninsula of Queens, Seastreak began running a city-subsidized ferry service between a makeshift ferry slip at Beach 108th Street and Beach Channel Drive in Rockaway Park and Pier 11/Wall Street in Manhattan's Financial District, then continuing on to the East 34th Street Ferry Landing.  In August 2013, a stop was added at Brooklyn Army Terminal in advance of the temporary closure of the Montague Street Tunnel (R train) between Brooklyn and Manhattan. In December 2013, it was reported that since inception, the run between Rockaway and Manhattan had attracted an average of about 730 passengers per day, on top of the approximately 250 daily passengers traveling between Brooklyn and Manhattan. The ferry by that time had carried nearly 200,000 passengers since its inception, according to city officials.
Originally intended as a stopgap alternative transportation measure only for the months until subway service was restored at the end of May in 2013, the ferry service proved to be popular with locals, and the city's contract with Seastreak was initially extended until July 2013 and then was subsequently extended again, first till mid-October 2013 and then until January 2014. Community organizations, activists and elected officials in Rockaway and Brooklyn campaigned for a permanent extension of the subsidized service. Though full service on the Montague Street Tunnel was restored in mid-September 2014, many commuters continued to take the ferry, despite its extra $1 cost over the subway fare. In mid-October, Mayor Bill de Blasio visited Rockaway and declared that the time had come to end the ferry service, since all of the subway service that it had replaced was now back in operation. Despite efforts from other local officials, the ferry last ran on October 31, 2014, after Seastreak was unsuccessful in procuring an extension of the service. Rockaway ferry service resumed on May 1, 2017, as part of the NYC Ferry service, which is operated by Hornblower Cruises.


== Crashes and incidents ==
In October 2003, eight passengers were evacuated to Staten Island after a fire broke out aboard a ferry heading to the Raritan Bayshore.
On January 9, 2013, at around 8:45 a.m., MV Seastreak Wall Street, arriving at Pier 11 from Atlantic Highlands, rammed into the mooring as it was docking, leaving a visible gash in the ferry stretching several feet above the water line. The president of the ferry company, James R. Barker, told NBC News that morning that there were 300 aboard and that many of those injured were thrown from their seats. The cause of the accident was not immediately clear. Eighty-five people were injured, two critically. According to the captain, the control system of the boat failed to respond. Lawsuits seeking damages have been brought by injured passengers. As of May 16, 2013, the deadline for filing, thirty-seven claims had been made against the company. The case will be heard in admiralty court since the accident took place on navigable waters.
On June 5, 2021, at around 4:15 p.m., the Commodore ran aground in the Bushwick Inlet in Brooklyn. One crew member was injured, and approximately 100 passengers were evacuated.


== In popular culture ==
The ferry is seen during a romantic moment passing underneath the Brooklyn Bridge in the movie Step Up 3D. It is seen still operating in the year 2021 in the movie Click. A ferry is also seen moving down the East River in the final shot of the 2002 film Gangs of New York, in which the Brooklyn Bridge and the World Trade Center can be seen.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Clint Lockner (May 23, 1943 – June 17, 1993), born Charles Stephen Romanshi and informally as Chuck, was an American military veteran, law enforcement officer, commercial aviator, and adult film performer. He achieved prominence in the late 1970s and 1980s as one of the most recognizable "Colt Men" for Jim French's Colt Studios, defining the era's hyper-masculine "clone" aesthetic. His real-life background as a decorated Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) officer lent a unique authenticity to his erotic portrayals, causing significant cultural shockwaves within the department following his resignation.


== Early life and education ==
Romanski was born on May 23, 1943, in Lincoln Park, Wayne County, Michigan. He was raised in a strict Catholic environment and attended local parochial schools. From a young age, Romanski displayed a profound talent for music, specifically studying classical piano. Close friends later remarked that he remained a highly skilled and passionate pianist throughout his life, maintaining a refined, cultured disposition that contrasted with his rugged physique.


== Career ==


=== Military and aviation ===
Upon graduating from high school at the age of seventeen in 1960, Romanski enlisted in the United States Navy, serving one full tour of duty. Seeking further challenge, he subsequently enlisted in the United States Marine Corps for a second tour of military service. He excelled under the rigid discipline of the military, climbing to the rank of Staff Sergeant before receiving an honorable discharge.
Following his military career, Romanski relocated to Southern California and transitioned into aviation. He successfully earned his commercial pilot's license, subsequently flying commercial and private jets on regular regional routes between Palm Springs, California, and Las Vegas, Nevada.


=== Law enforcement ===
In 1970, Romanski joined the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD). Over a seven-to-eight-year tenure, he worked extensively as a squad car patrol officer and later as an undercover vice detective in the Valley Division. Within the department, Romanski was widely respected and decorated, earning a reputation among his peers as a "cop's cop" and a "man's man" who commanded authority and demonstrated immense effectiveness on the street.
During his personal time, Romanski was an avid motorcyclist who owned and rode a Harley-Davidson for pleasure. Though he never served as a formal LAPD motorcycle officer, his familiar association with the subculture influenced his later creative work.


=== Resignation and departmental impact ===
Romanski resigned from the LAPD between 1978 and 1980. Contemporary records indicate his departure was prompted by a desire to escape the prevailing right-wing, fundamentalist, and exclusionary attitudes held by several of his fellow officers.
His resignation and subsequent entry into gay adult media caused massive institutional paranoia within the LAPD. Because Romanski had perfectly embodied the department's idealized image of a highly competent, masculine officer, his departure shattered prevailing homosexual stereotypes of the era. His former colleagues faced widespread anxiety, fearing that if an officer of Romanski's caliber could successfully conceal his personal life for nearly a decade, other closeted officers could be doing the same.


=== Adult entertainment and modeling ===
Shortly before separating from the LAPD, Romanski was scouted by photographer Jim French, the founder of Colt Studio. Adopting the pseudonym Clint Lockner, he quickly became a centerpiece of the studio's print magazines, celebrated for his chiseled physique, rugged features, and prominent mustache. His print photography formed the foundational core of his enduring visual legacy.
Lockner's screen appearances were selective but highly influential. He brought the genuine swagger, discipline, and authoritative mannerisms of his law enforcement background directly to the camera.
He appeared in Face to Face which was directed by Steve Scott, this film solidified Lockner's status as a premier performer of the early 1980s VHS boom. Later he appeared in Moving Violations in this iconic vignette, Lockner famously portrayed a motorcycle cop. He commanded a highly regarded, intense threesome alongside fellow Colt powerhouses Mike Davis and Mark Rutter.
Although typically celebrated as a dominant "top" performer, Lockner famously demonstrated his performance range by "bottoming" for the dark, hairy Latin performer Bruno in a critically acclaimed scene. He also turned in notable performances in San Francisco, Playing with Danger, Lockner's Key, and Trapped alongside Mickey Squires.


=== Entrepreneurship and later life ===
From 1979 to 1984, Lockner and his real-life romantic partner, fellow adult performer Dan Pace professionally known as Rocky Genero, co-owned and operated The Sanctuary, a private club in Hollywood. During this period, Lockner and Pace also created and performed in a highly popular live nightclub act. Designed as an artistic erotic presentation, the live show featured the duo in authentic cop and construction fetish gear, emphasizing the raw, everyday masculinity of working men.
Following the closure of the club and the amicable end of their romantic relationship, Lockner and Pace maintained a deep, lifelong friendship. Lockner briefly relocated to Washington, D.C., where he worked as a retail associate at a Radio Shack for eight months. He subsequently returned to his native Michigan to act as a primary caregiver for his ailing mother until her passing.
In 1990, Lockner permanently settled in San Diego, California. Stepping entirely away from the adult industry, he spent his final years working a traditional corporate job as a credit collector for Bank of America.


== Personal life ==
Romanski's most prominent romantic relationship was with fellow adult film star Dan Pace known professionally as Rocky Genero. The two were romantic partners throughout the late 1970s and early 1980s, living and collaborating closely in Southern California. Even after their romantic partnership ended, Romanski and Pace preserved an unbroken, lifelong bond, remaining each other's closest friends and confidants until Romanski's death.
He was a talented pianist who favored classical music, frequently playing for close friends. He balanced this artistic passion with a love for motorcycle culture, frequently taking long, personal rides on his Harley-Davidson motorcycle through the California landscape.
After relocating to San Diego in 1990, Romanski shared a home with his roommate, Lee Albert. His domestic life in San Diego was characterized by a quiet normalcy that contrasted sharply with his earlier Hollywood career.


== Death ==
On June 17, 1993, Romanski died from AIDS-related complications at the Veterans Administration Hospital in La Jolla, San Diego County, California, at the age of 50. He was survived by his three sisters, his roommate Lee Albert, and his lifelong companion Dan Pace. Following a celebration of life luncheon held at his former residence, Romanski was cremated, and his ashes were scattered off the coast of Santa Barbara, California, on August 21, 1993.


== Filmography ==


=== Film ===


== Legacy ==
Lockner's image survived him for decades through archival footage. Colt Studios consistently featured him in retrospective video compilations, including Best of Colt Films volumes 1, 3, 4, 9, and 12, as well as the 2000 release Couples 1: Colt Men On The Make.


== References ==


== External links ==
Charles Stephen Romanski at IMDb

Premature may refer to:

Premature (2014 film), an American comedy film
Premature (2019 film), an American romantic drama film
PREMature, a 2015 British television drama miniseries


== See also ==
Premature aging, of an organism
Premature birth, a preterm baby birth
Premature ejaculation, a condition in which a man ejaculates earlier than he or his partner would like him to
Adult premature aging syndrome, a disease with the appearance of premature aging
Premature Burial, a horror short story by American writer Edgar Allan Poe, published in 1844.
All pages with titles beginning with Premature 
All pages with titles containing Premature

The 2014 Giro di Lombardia or 2014 Il Lombardia was the 108th edition of the Giro di Lombardia single-day cycling race, often known as the Race of the Falling Leaves. It was held on 5 October 2014 over a distance of 254 km. The course was different from years past, and it finished in Bergamo. The race was won by Daniel Martin ahead of Alejandro Valverde and Rui Costa.


== Results ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

On August 4, 2023, at approximately 3:30 p.m., American Internet personality Kai Cenat held an unpermitted event—a giveaway of gaming-related items in New York City's Union Square, accompanied by partners Fanum, Duke Dennis, and Agent 00 from the AMP collective. Attendees who correctly answered questions about YouTube and live streaming were eligible for prizes. The event drew thousands to Union Square Park and escalated into a riot with clashes between police and crowd members. Social media posts of the event surfaced around the same time. Seven people were injured, and 65 people—including 30 minors—were arrested. The 14th Street–Union Square subway station and surrounding businesses were temporarily closed.
Cenat was taken into custody by the New York City Police Department and charged with inciting a riot and unlawful assembly. Charges were later dropped after he paid $55,000 in restitution. His business partners at AMP apologized, and Cenat publicly apologized in a live stream on August 9. The incident drew national media attention in publications such as NPR and Wired about the influence of Internet personalities.


== Background ==

Kai Cenat is an American live streamer and YouTuber. He attended Frederick Douglass Academy and the State University of New York at Morrisville, before dropping out. Cenat joined a group of Internet personalities called Any Means Possible (AMP) in 2020. The following year he gained popularity after producing a series of live streams with Drake, 21 Savage, and Lil Uzi Vert. In February 2023, the United Talent Agency announced they would represent Cenat during his subathon (a continuous live stream in which a new subscriber extends a descending timer). At the end of the live stream, he had amassed 300,000 Twitch subscribers, a record for the platform. As of August 2023, Cenat had a combined 11.1 million followers across YouTube and Twitch.


=== AMP ===

AMP (Any Means Possible) is a Twitch and YouTube collective consisting of Twitch streamers, influencers and internet personalities Kai Cenat, ImDavisss, Chrisnxtdoor, Fanum, Duke Dennis, and Agent00. The group streams various games on each members' Twitch accounts, as well as making challenge, gaming, and vlog videos.


=== Planning ===
In the days preceding the August 4 gathering, Cenat announced that he would give away PlayStation 5 consoles at 4 p.m. in Union Square along 14th Street, where he would be joined by Fanum, Duke Dennis, and Agent00, three Twitch streamers. All four men are members of AMP. Despite not securing a permit, Cenat announced on August 2 that he would give away gaming-related items to attendees who correctly answered questions about YouTube and live streaming. The announcement video garnered over 2 million views by August 4. He posted on Twitter that the live stream would begin at 3:30 p.m. In a livestream, Cenat told followers to meet across the street from the Whole Foods on 14th Street and referred to the giveaway with some irony as the "'stay off the streets and go stream' project."


== Riot ==

By 3 p.m. on August 4, 2023, a large crowd—including many people who were drawn to the event—had gathered in Union Square. Initial estimates from police put the crowd at 3,000 to 5,000 people. The New York City Police Department (NYPD) became aware of the gathering as dozens of people began converging. The NYPD had mobilized officers to the area. The crowd took down barriers and conflict broke out between police and members of the crowd. Some people climbed on a gazebo, vehicles, and a statue of George Washington, threw bottles at officers and objects at vehicles. Witnesses described a frightening scene, with one bystander recalling that he fell due to a bad knee and was trampled. "Everybody started running and going crazy," he said. "Everybody started running over me. I couldn't help it...I was scared." Another witness, Lisa Swan, noted the surreal sight of a young man climbing a streetlight, saying, "He looked like Spider-Man." Social media posts of the riot surfaced at the same time. According to the NYPD, individuals walked around with shovels and axes taken from a nearby construction site, while others lit fireworks. A CBS New York helicopter captured a man discharging a fire extinguisher on a crowd of people. The crowd was estimated at 3,000 to 5,000 people, with some attendees running and trampling others amid sounds resembling gunfire. The unrest was not contained to the park itself. Many attendees moved onto the surrounding avenues, with a large group descending on Park Avenue "like a snow squall, swinging traffic cones, climbing street poles and jumping on outdoor dining structures", according to CBS News. Some individuals reportedly took plates and knives from people dining outside and threw them at officers.

The incident drew attention to Cenat's prominence on Twitch, with some media outlets referring to him as the "King of Twitch."
The NYPD mobilized about 1,000 officers—the department's highest response level—to the scene.The department's Entertainment Unit and Intelligence Division first became aware of the event around 12:45 p.m., deploying officers from the local precinct and Manhattan South Patrol Borough to monitor it initially. In addition to the ground response, the department deployed drones and its aviation unit to monitor the situation from above. The Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) had subway trains bypass the 14th Street–Union Square station. An SUV presumed to carry Cenat fled the scene at high speed, with fans clinging to it, causing several to fall. A nearby Best Buy and an eyeglass shop locked their doors. The Union Square Greenmarket continued operating for a time, with one reporter noting that people "still have to get their produce, I guess." At least two thousand people came to the event. Cenat livestreamed from a black SUV, displaying $100 gift cards and urging the crowd to stay safe amid the growing police presence. He claimed officers were deploying tear gas, though none was reported. Exiting the vehicle, he was swarmed by fans before police escorted him away. At approximately 5:00 p.m., Cenat was released on his own accord after being charged with inciting a riot and unlawful assembly. By 5:30 p.m. the number of participants had begun to decrease with the police eventually blocking the entrances to Union Square. A witness, Josh Ortiz from Brooklyn, attended to see Cenat, noting the event 'wasn't planned well' and suggesting a more open area could have prevented chaos. In an Instagram live stream from a police car, Cenat told the crowd to go home.
A total of seven people were reported injured. Among the police, a sergeant suffered a broken hand, one officer was hit in the head with a paint can, and another was punched in the face after being struck by a glass bottle. NYPD Chief Jeffrey Maddrey noted that he himself was hit with multiple objects while in the crowd. Among the civilians, a 17-year-old was hospitalized for injuries sustained from a firework, and Maddrey observed others "bleeding from their heads" or suffering from panic and asthma attacks. The crowds obstructed both vehicular and pedestrian traffic, leading to the NYPD's Level 4 mobilization.
Police filled an MTA bus with detainees; 65 people at the event were arrested, including 30 juveniles. The bus was attacked by other people attempting to free those on board. In a press conference, Chief Maddrey claimed that multiple police cars and food carts had been destroyed.


== Aftermath ==
At a press conference, Maddrey stated: "When I go back later on this evening, I will have an after-action determine exactly what our steps were. We can't allow this to happen again in the future". New York City Mayor Eric Adams praised police for their "quick work" in dispersing the crowd. In a statement on August 5, Cenat's streaming group AMP apologized for the riot. The perspective of many fans at the event differed from the official narrative. One attendee explained the massive turnout as an expression of support for the streamer, stating, "Kai Cenat said pop out and that's what the city did. That's how we show love!" On August 9, Cenat made his first public appearance after the riot in a live stream, holding up a New York Daily News issue, apologizing, and announcing that he would take a break from live streaming. He said that he was "beyond disappointed in anybody who became destructive that day". He acknowledged the scale of his reach, stating, "After Friday, I've come to realize the amount of not only power but influence that I have on people."
The incident became an Internet meme. Rapper Offset criticized the police for arresting Cenat. In a YouTube video posted in June 2025, Mayor Eric Adams appeared with Cenat, encouraging him to hold another giveaway but to do so "the right way" by coordinating with the city for permits and law enforcement. Cenat acknowledged that he had "learned from" the 2023 incident and understood his level of influence.


=== Legal proceedings ===
Cenat appeared in court on August 16, following his release from police custody on August 4. He appeared in court again on August 18. On May 21, 2024, the Manhattan District Attorney's office announced that Cenat would not face any charges for the riot. They claimed that he had already paid $55,000 in restitution to the Union Square Partnership, the neighborhood's nonprofit organization for economic development. Denzel Dennis (Duke Dennis) and Din Muktar (Agent00), two other people connected to the incident, each paid $1,049.50 to the group. The combined amount of $57,099 was meant to compensate for damage and staff hours needed in the riot's aftermath. The District Attorney's office dismissed the case on May 22, 2024.


== Analysis ==
Following the event, Mayor Adams stated in a press briefing that "children cannot be raised by social media", while researcher Megan Moreno stated in an NPR interview that the incident "does speak to how much investment people can place within these parasocial relationships". NYPD Chief of Department Jeffrey Maddrey acknowledged the unique challenge posed by social media influencers, stating that the police department needed to improve its outreach. "If we knew about this, we could've had the barriers out here, we could've had police officers out here, we could've did this orderly," he said, emphasizing the event was not sanctioned by the city. Former NYPD sergeant Dr. Keith Taylor noted that the police response was different from past events like the 2020 George Floyd protests, reflecting new training on how to handle large-scale incidents without escalating them unnecessarily. In a Wired article comparing the event to similar Internet-based incidents, University of Sydney digital culture lecturer Mark Johnson opined on the effect of social media (such as the interactivity of Twitch) on the relationships between streamers and their fans. Johnson described the occurrence as an example of "emergent behavior", where Internet users transition from interacting online to entering the real world. The article also claimed that Cenat was "the first Twitch streamer to be charged with inciting a riot". The specific appeal of Cenat to his young, diverse fanbase was also noted as a factor. Keith Dorsey, founder of the media company Young Guns Entertainment, explained that a generation of Black and brown youth saw themselves reflected in Cenat. "When you have a regular individual, a regular person, a young person who just goes online and blows up, it reaches them a little differently," Dorsey said.
Writing for Psychology Today, Pamela B. Rutledge stated: "Young people are volatile and not forward-thinking. It is not surprising that an unplanned crowd of teens turned unruly, even ugly." She felt that the response from Mayor Adams was more political and less realistic, as the rioting crowd's actions were not just a parenting issue, but an issue that also stemmed from digital illiteracy. Bailey Calfee of Campaign noted that a lack of prior planning and the risks of running an in-person event contributed to the riot. In a New York Times article, Keith Dorsey, founder and chief executive of Atlanta-based Young Guns Entertainment, stated that Cenat's management team should try to discuss with authorities the next time he organizes an event. He speculated that Cenat most likely did not know that the event was going to end up in a disaster.


== See also ==
List of incidents of civil unrest in the United States


== Notes ==


== References ==

Muraki (Persian: موركي) is a village in, and the capital of, Javid-e Mahuri Rural District of the Central District of Mamasani County, Fars province, Iran.


== Demographics ==


=== Population ===
At the time of the 2006 National Census, the village's population was 1,796 in 371 households. The following census in 2011 counted 1,875 people in 513 households. The 2016 census measured the population of the village as 1,893 people in 569 households. It was the most populous village in its rural district.


== See also ==
 Iran portal


== Notes ==


== References ==

Njinga a Mona (also called Nzinga a Mona or Njinga Mona) was an Imbangala leader who rose to prominence as a general in the service of the famous Queen Nzinga of Ndongo and Matamba. In the late 1660s and early 1670s, he fought João Guterres Ngola Kanini and his sons for control of Matamba, but was ultimately defeated.
Njinga a Mona first became an Imbangala when he was captured by them as a child, and he was then raised in their ways. Although he was lowborn, his name meant 'child of Njinga' (that is, of Queen Nzinga), signifying their close relationship as he rose to become the most senior military commander in her forces. In 1647, after the Battle of Kombi, he commanded forces that attempted to take the fortress at Massangano and rescue Nzinga's sister Mukambu, but he was unsuccessful due to his lack of artillery.
The role of Njinga a Mona in the conversion of Matamba to Christianity was complex. In 1655, Njinga a Mona reported that he received a scolding vision after discarding a captured Christian cross, whereupon he retrieved it and brought it back to Queen Nzinga. This episode helped Nzinga justify the introduction of Christianity to her people, which was part of a deal with the Portuguese that took effect in 1656, which also saw Mukambu's release from Portuguese captivity. Afterwards, Njinga a Mona married Mukambu, who became Nzinga's heir. Njinga a Mona was also the first of Nzinga's officials to be baptised.
On the other hand, the introduction of Christianity created distance between Njinga a Mona and Queen Nzinga. The rise of Christianity was paralleled by a shift away from the Imbangala traditions in which Njinga a Mona had been raised, as well as an increased emphasis on dynastic succession and noble lineage that disadvantaged him given his low birth. In contrast, under Imbangala traditions, Njinga a Mona would have been the queen's obvious successor. As a result, Njinga a Mona became the leader of an Imbangala opposition faction in the court. In 1663, the night before the dedication of the largest church yet built in the region, Njinga a Mona's brother and sister both died within hours of each other, leading Christian missionaries to suspect they poisoned themselves in a bid to undermine Christianity in Matamba.
These tensions did not erupt into open civil war while Nzinga lived, nor during the succeeding reign of Njinga a Mona's wife Mukambu (1663–1666). However, on Mukambu's death, Njinga a Mona attempted to take power, and was proclaimed the legitimate successor by a traditional nganga priest claimed to be possessed by Nzinga's spirit. The royal council disagreed and expelled Njinga a Mona; instead, they eventually crowned João Guterres Ngola Kanini, a member of the Christian faction who was part of the Ndongo royal family and thus a relative of Nzinga and Mukambu. When João Guterres died in 1670, Njinga a Mona returned and drove João's eldest son Luis into exile. However, another son, António Guterres, defeated Njinga a Mona, and in 1671 the royal council installed a third son, Francisco I Guterres Ngola Kanini, as king.


== See also ==
Angolan Wars


== References ==

Live My Last is an American rock band from Columbus, Ohio formed in 2006. The group consists of vocalist Justin Wilson, guitarists Brock Richards and Brandon Friedel, and drummer Mark Fox. They have released three extended plays and one studio album and are currently working on their sophomore record.


== History ==


=== Formation (2006–2008) ===
Live My Last formed in 2006 with completely different members than who are in the band now. They began playing throughout the state of Ohio, promoting CD demos. In 2007, their first single titled "Out of Light" was released.


=== Rescues EP (2009–2010) ===
In 2010, current member Brock Richards joined the band and they released their first EP titled Rescues. The extended play consisted on three tracks.


=== Line-up change and reformation (2011) ===
From the year before to 2011, the band's line-up changed: Justin Wilson eventually replaced their former lead singer when he met Mark Fox (who replaced their former drummer) and Richards (other members were replaced as well); the band also had bass player Codee Carle. At the beginning of the year, the band covered Christina Aguilera's 'Genie In a Bottle,' which an official studio version of the cover can be found online.
During this time, Brandon Friedel joined Live My Last as the second guitarist and the band eventually became a four-piece, which prompted them to change their formation year to 2011 as they viewed the line-up had been "solidified." Then they released their second extended play titled, 45's Are Still In Fashion, a lyric taken from one of the two tracks available on the release.


=== Convictions (2012) ===
On February 11, 2012, Live My Last released their third extended play titled Ep. This release had five tracks, including the two from their second extended play.
In May 2012, the band began recording their first studio album at Spider Studios with producer Ben Schigel (Drowning Pool, Breaking Benjamin, Chimaira, Machine Gun Kelly). The band created a Kickstarter to fund the production of the album and reached their goal in September. Their full-length, debut studio album Convictions was released on December 20, 2012, and became available on iTunes the day after Christmas.


=== Hiatus, second studio album and Justin Wilson's death (2013–present) ===
In early 2013, the band uploaded to YouTube music videos for a few tracks from 'Convictions,' including a music video for their single 'Let's Get This Started Again.'
Before the summer, Wilson left Live My Last temporarily and Jon Grubbs of Ranger Danger replaced his role as lead singer in live performances. During this year, the band opened for The Used. When Wilson returned, Friedel also left the band and Carle came back for live performances before Friedel returned later on.
On February 2, 2016, Friedel tweeted through the band's Twitter account that the "writing for the next album has begun," with a photo of him playing guitar in the studio. Since then, the band has been posting updates on social media of the recording of their sophomore record. In July 2016, the band apologized for being so inactive as they have had to deal with "personal issues" but "are ready to get back onto the stage."
On July 1, 2018, The band tweeted through their Twitter account that Wilson had died.


== Musical influences ==
Live My Last has cited that some of their musical influences range from The Used, Incubus, Blindside, Jimmy Eat World, 36 Crazyfists, Bless The Fall, A Day To Remember, Sevendust, and Story Of The Year.


== Band members ==
Current
Brock Richards – guitar, backup vocals (2010–present)
Brandon Friedel – guitar, backup vocals (2012–present)
Mark Fox – drums, percussion (2011–present)
Past
Codee Carle – bass (2010-2011) (2013)
Jason Rau – bass (2012)
Jon Grubbs – lead vocals (2013)
Justin Wilson – lead vocals (2011–2013, 2014-2018; died 2018)
Jesse Cepeda - Founding Member, lead vocals (2006-2011)


== Discography ==
Albums
Convictions (2012)
EPs
Rescues EP (2010)
45's Are Still In Fashion (2011)
Ep - EP (2012)
Singles
"Out of Light" (2007)
"Let's Get This Started Again" (2012)


== References ==

*Raidō "ride" (by extension "journey, wagon etc") is the reconstructed Proto-Germanic name of the r- rune of the Elder Futhark ᚱ. The name is attested for the same rune in all three rune poems, Old Norwegian Ræið Icelandic Reið, Anglo-Saxon Rad, as well as for the corresponding letter of the Gothic alphabet 𐍂 r, called raida. The shape of the rune may be directly derived from Latin R.


== References ==


== External links ==
Futhark (ancientscripts.com)
Runes around the North Sea and on the Continent AD 150-700 by J. H. Looijenga (dissertation,  Groningen University)

Nathaniel Adams Coles (March 17, 1919 – February 15, 1965), known professionally as Nat King Cole, was an American singer, jazz pianist, and actor. Cole's career as a jazz and pop vocalist started in the late 1930s and spanned almost three decades, during which he found success and recorded over 100 songs that became hits on the pop charts.
Cole began his career as a jazz pianist in the late 1930s, when he formed the King Cole Trio, which became the top-selling group (and the only black act) on Capitol Records in the 1940s. Cole's trio was the model for small jazz ensembles that followed. Starting in 1950, he transitioned to become a solo singer billed as Nat King Cole. Despite achieving mainstream success, Cole faced intense racial discrimination during his career. While not a major vocal public figure in the civil rights movement, Cole was a member of his local NAACP branch and participated in the 1963 March on Washington. He regularly performed for civil rights organizations. From 1956 to 1957, Cole hosted the NBC variety series The Nat King Cole Show, which became the first nationally broadcast television show hosted by a Black American.
Some of Cole's most notable singles include "Unforgettable", "Smile", "A Blossom Fell", "Nature Boy", "When I Fall in Love", "Let There Be Love", "Mona Lisa", "Autumn Leaves", "Stardust", "Straighten Up and Fly Right", "The Very Thought of You", "For Sentimental Reasons", "Embraceable You" and "Almost Like Being in Love". His 1960 Christmas album The Magic of Christmas (also known as The Christmas Song), was the best-selling Christmas album released in the 1960s; and was ranked as one of the 40 essential Christmas albums (2019) by Rolling Stone. In 2022, Cole's recording of "The Christmas Song", broke the record for the longest journey to the top ten on the Billboard Hot 100, when it peaked at number nine, 62 years after it debuted on the chart; and was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the United States National Recording Registry.
Cole received numerous accolades including a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame (1960) and a Special Achievement Golden Globe Award. Posthumously, Cole has received the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award (1990), along with the Sammy Cahn Lifetime Achievement Award (1992) and has been inducted into the DownBeat Jazz Hall of Fame (1997), Rock and Roll Hall of Fame (2000), and the National Rhythm & Blues Hall of Fame (2020). NPR named him one of the 50 Great Voices. Cole was the father of singer Natalie Cole (1950–2015), who covered her father's songs in the 1991 album Unforgettable... with Love.


== Early life ==
Nathaniel Adams Coles was born in Montgomery, Alabama, on March 17, 1919. He had three brothers: Eddie (1910–1970), Ike (1927–2001), and Freddy (1931–2020), and a half-sister, Joyce. Each of the Coles brothers pursued careers in music. When Cole was four years old, the family moved to Chicago, Illinois, where his father, Edward, became a Baptist minister. Cole learned to play the organ from his mother, Perlina (Adams) Coles, the church organist. His first performance was "Yes! We Have No Bananas" at the age of four. Cole began formal piano lessons at the age of 12, learning jazz, gospel, and classical music "from Johann Sebastian Bach to Sergei Rachmaninoff". As a youth, Cole joined the news delivery boys' "Bud Billiken Club" band for The Chicago Defender.
Cole and his family moved to the Bronzeville neighborhood of Chicago, where Cole attended Wendell Phillips Academy High School, the school Sam Cooke attended a few years later. Cole participated in Walter Dyett's music program at DuSable High School. He would sneak out of the house to visit clubs, sitting outside to hear Louis Armstrong, Earl Hines, and Jimmie Noone.


== Career ==


=== Early career ===

When he was 15, Cole dropped out of high school to pursue a music career. After his brother Eddie, a bassist, came home from touring with Noble Sissle, they formed a sextet and recorded two singles for Decca in 1936 as Eddie Cole's Swingsters. They performed in a revival of the musical Shuffle Along. Nat Cole went on tour with the musical. In 1937, he married Nadine Robinson, who was a member of the cast. After the show ended in Los Angeles, Cole and Nadine settled there while he looked for work.
One day in 1938, as he was relaxing in his hotel room, Bing Crosby heard the Nat Cole Trio for the first time from Jim Otto's Steak House, and then took Johnny Mercer to hear them. Crosby soon had the trio on his Kraft Music Hall radio program, and Mercer would later sign them upon founding Capitol Records. In 1944, "Straighten Up and Fly Right" soared to the top of the charts.
With Crosby continually bringing them back on his program, the Trio even substituted for him in the summer of 1946.
Cole led a big band and found work playing piano in nightclubs. When a club owner asked him to form a band, Cole hired bassist Wesley Prince and guitarist Oscar Moore. They called themselves the King Cole Swingsters after the nursery rhyme in which "Old King Cole was a merry old soul". They changed their name to the King Cole Trio before making radio transcriptions and recording for small labels.


=== 1940s ===
Cole recorded "Sweet Lorraine" in 1940, and it became his first hit. According to legend, his career as a vocalist started when a drunken bar patron demanded that Cole sing the song. Cole's version was that one night a customer demanded that he sing, but because it was a song he did not know, he sang "Sweet Lorraine" instead. As people heard Cole's vocal talent, they requested more vocal songs, and he obliged.
In 1941, the trio recorded "That Ain't Right" for Decca, followed the next year by "All for You" for Excelsior. They recorded "I'm Lost", a song written by Otis René, the owner of Excelsior.

I started out to become a jazz pianist; in the meantime I started singing and I sang the way I felt and that's just the way it came out.
Cole was the original house pianist for Jazz at the Philharmonic and performed at the first recorded concert in 1944. He was credited on Mercury as "Shorty Nadine", a derivative of his wife's name, because Cole had an exclusive contract with Capitol since signing with the label the year before. He used a variety of other pseudonyms for the same reason, including Eddie Laguna, Sam Schmaltz, Nature Boy and A Guy, "or whatever name for himself he could think of, but only as an instrumentalist, never as a vocalist." Cole recorded with Illinois Jacquet and Lester Young.

In 1946, the trio broadcast King Cole Trio Time, a 15-minute radio program. This was the first radio program to be hosted by a black musician. From 1946 to 1948, the trio recorded radio transcriptions for Capitol Records Transcription Service. They performed on the radio programs Swing Soiree, Old Gold, The Chesterfield Supper Club, Kraft Music Hall, and The Orson Welles Almanac.
Cole began recording and performing pop-oriented material in which he was often accompanied by a string orchestra. Cole's stature as a popular star was cemented by hits such as "All for You" (1943), "The Christmas Song" (1947), "(Get Your Kicks on) Route 66", "(I Love You) For Sentimental Reasons" (1946), "There! I've Said It Again" (1947), "Nature Boy" (1948),


=== 1950s ===
Cole continued his popular success without a break in the 1950s, recording "Frosty the Snowman" (No. 8 in 1950), "Mona Lisa" (No. 1 song of 1950), "Orange Colored Sky" (1950), "Too Young" (the No. 1 song of 1951).
1951's "Unforgettable" (No. 9) was made famous again in 1991 by Cole's daughter Natalie when modern recording technology was used to reunite father and daughter in a duet. The duet version rose to the top of the pop charts, almost forty years after its original popularity.
On June 7, 1953, Cole performed for the ninth Cavalcade of Jazz concert held at Wrigley Field in Chicago, which was produced annually by Leon Hefflin, Sr. Featured that day were Roy Brown and his Orchestra, Shorty Rogers, Earl Bostic, Don Tosti and His Mexican Jazzmen, and Louis Armstrong and his All Stars with Velma Middleton.
On November 5, 1956, The Nat 'King' Cole Show debuted on NBC. The variety program was one of the first hosted by an African American. The fifteen minute show was increased to a half-hour in July 1957. Rheingold Beer was a regional sponsor, but a national sponsor was never found. The show was in trouble financially despite efforts by NBC, Harry Belafonte, Tony Bennett, Ella Fitzgerald, Eartha Kitt, Frankie Laine, Peggy Lee, and Mel Tormé. Cole decided to end the program, and the last episode aired on December 17, 1957. Commenting on the lack of sponsorship, Cole said shortly after its demise: "Madison Avenue is afraid of the dark."
Throughout the 1950s, Cole continued to record hits that sold millions throughout the world, such as "Smile", "Pretend", "A Blossom Fell", and "If I May". His pop hits were collaborations with Nelson Riddle, Gordon Jenkins, and Ralph Carmichael. Riddle arranged several of Cole's 1950s albums, including Nat King Cole Sings for Two in Love (1953), his first 10-inch LP. In 1955, "Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup" reached number 7 on the Billboard chart. Love Is the Thing went to number one in April 1957 and remained his only number one album.

As the taste in popular music continued to change in the 1950s, Cole's ballads appealed little to young listeners, despite a successful 1957 attempt at rock and roll with "Send for Me", which peaked at number 6 on the pop chart. Like Dean Martin, Frank Sinatra, and Tony Bennett, Cole found that the pop chart had been taken over by youth-oriented acts.
In 1958, Cole went to Havana, Cuba, to record Cole Español, an album sung entirely in Spanish. It was so popular in Latin America and the U.S. that it was followed by two more Spanish-language albums: A Mis Amigos (1959) and More Cole Español (1962).
In 1959, Cole received a Grammy Award for Best Performance By a "Top 40" Artist for "Midnight Flyer".
Cole performed in many short films (such as The Nat King Cole Musical Story (1955)), sitcoms, and television shows, and appeared in big screen productions that included The Blue Gardenia (1953), China Gate (1957), and St. Louis Blues (1958), where he played W. C. Handy.


=== 1960s ===
In 1960, Cole's longtime collaborator Nelson Riddle left Capitol to join Reprise Records, which was established by Frank Sinatra. Riddle and Cole recorded one final hit album, Wild Is Love, with lyrics by Ray Rasch and Dotty Wayne. Cole later retooled the concept album into an Off-Broadway show, I'm with You.
Nevertheless, Cole recorded several hit singles during the 1960s, including "Let There Be Love" with George Shearing in 1961, the country-flavored hit "Ramblin' Rose" in August 1962 (reaching No. 2 on the Pop chart), "Dear Lonely Hearts" (No. 13), "That Sunday, That Summer" (No. 12) and "Those Lazy-Hazy-Crazy Days of Summer" (his final top-ten hit, reaching number 6 on the Pop chart).
In January 1964, Cole made one of his final television appearances, on The Jack Benny Program. He was introduced as "the best friend a song ever had" and sang "When I Fall in Love". Cat Ballou (1965), Cole's final film, was released several months after his death.
Cole's final studio album was titled L-O-V-E (album). The album peaked at No. 4 on the Billboard Albums chart in the spring of 1965. 
Earlier on, Cole's shift to traditional pop led some jazz critics and fans to accuse him of selling out, but he never abandoned his jazz roots; as late as 1956, Cole recorded an all-jazz album, After Midnight, and many of his albums after this are fundamentally jazz-based, being scored for big band without strings, although the arrangements focus primarily on the vocal rather than instrumental leads.


== Personal life ==
Around the time Cole launched his singing career, he entered into Freemasonry. Cole was raised in January 1944 in the Thomas Waller Lodge No. 49 in California. The lodge was named after fellow Prince Hall mason and jazz musician Fats Waller. Cole joined the Scottish Rite Freemasonry, becoming a 32nd Degree Mason.
Cole was "an avid baseball fan", particularly of Hank Aaron. In 1968, Nelson Riddle related an incident from some years earlier of music studio engineers searching for a source of noise and finding Cole listening to a game on a transistor radio.


=== Marriages and children ===

Cole met his first wife, Nadine Robinson, while they were on tour for the all-black Broadway musical Shuffle Along. Cole was 18 when they married in 1937, and was the reason why he moved to Los Angeles and formed the Nat King Cole trio. Their marriage ended in divorce in 1948.
On March 28, 1948 (Easter Sunday), six days after his divorce became final, Cole married singer Maria Hawkins. The Coles were married in Harlem's Abyssinian Baptist Church by Adam Clayton Powell Jr. They had five children: Natalie (1950–2015), who had a successful career as a singer before dying of congestive heart failure at age 65; an adopted daughter, Carole (1944–2009, the daughter of Maria's sister), who died of lung cancer at the age of 64; an adopted son, Nat Kelly Cole (1959–1995), who died of AIDS at the age of 36; and twin daughters, Casey and Timolin, born September 26, 1961. Maria supported Cole during his final illness and stayed with him until his death. In an interview, she emphasized his musical legacy and the class he exhibited despite his imperfections.


=== Experiences with racism ===
In August 1948, Cole purchased a house from Col. Harry Gantz, ex-husband of silent film actress Lois Weber, in the all-white Hancock Park neighborhood of Los Angeles. Shortly thereafter, a burning cross was placed on the Coles' front lawn. The property-owners association told Cole they did not want any "undesirables" in the neighborhood. Cole responded, "Neither do I. And if I see anybody undesirable coming in here, I'll be the first to complain." Cole's dog died after eating poisoned meat, which was likely connected to his moving to the neighborhood.
In 1956, Cole was contracted to perform in Cuba. He wanted to stay at the Hotel Nacional de Cuba in Havana but was refused because it operated a color bar. Cole honored his contract, and the concert at the Tropicana Club was a huge success. The following year, Cole returned to Cuba for another concert, singing many songs in Spanish.


==== 1956 Birmingham assault ====

On April 10, 1956, Cole was assaulted during a concert in Birmingham, Alabama, while singing the song "Little Girl" on stage with the Ted Heath Band. After photographs of Cole with white female fans were circulated bearing such incendiary, boldface captions as "Cole and His White Women" and "Cole and Your Daughter", three men belonging to the North Alabama Citizens Council attacked Cole in an apparent attempt to kidnap him.
The three assailants ran down the aisles of the auditorium towards Cole. Local law enforcement quickly ended their invasion of the stage, but not until Cole was toppled from his piano bench and received a slight injury to his back. He did not finish the concert. Police later found rifles, a blackjack, and brass knuckles in a car outside the venue.
Six men were formally charged with assault with intent to murder Cole, albeit the charges against four of them were later reduced. The original plan to attack Cole included 150 men from Birmingham and nearby towns. On April 18, 1956, Jesse Mabry, E.L. Vinson, Mike Fox, and Orliss Clevenger, all of whom were members of the Alabama chapter of the Citizens' Councils, were convicted of conspiracy to commit assault and battery and disturbing the peace in a bench trial held by Judge Ralph E. Parker. Two days later, Parker sentenced each of the men to six months in jail plus a $100 fine (nearly $1,200 in 2025). He imposed an additional $25 fine of Clevenger for carrying concealed brass knuckles. In December 1956, Kenneth Adams and Willis Richard Vinson both pleaded guilty to assault. Vinson, who was accused of assaulting his arresting officer, was fined $100 and ordered to pay court costs. Adams was fined $50 and ordered to pay court costs.
"I can't understand it," Cole said afterwards. "I have not taken part in any protests. Nor have I joined an organization fighting segregation. Why should they attack me?" Cole wanted to forget the incident and continued to play for segregated audiences in the South, saying he could not change the situation in a day. He contributed money to the Montgomery bus boycott and previously sued Northern hotels that had hired him but refused to serve him.


==== Criticism and involvement in the Civil Rights Movement ====
Thurgood Marshall, then chief legal counsel of the NAACP, said "All Cole needs to complete his role as an Uncle Tom is a banjo." Roy Wilkins, NAACP executive secretary, sent Cole a telegram:

You have not been a crusader or engaged in an effort to change the customs or laws of the South. That responsibility, newspapers quote you as saying, you leave to the other guys. That attack upon you clearly indicates that organized bigotry makes no distinction between those who do not actively challenge racial discrimination and those who do. This is a fight which none of us can escape. We invite you to join us in a crusade against racism.
The Chicago Defender said Cole's performances for all-white audiences were an insult to his race. The New York Amsterdam News said "thousands of Harlem blacks who have worshiped at the shrine of singer Nat King Cole turned their backs on him this week as the noted crooner turned his back on the NAACP and said that he will continue to play to Jim Crow audiences". To play "Uncle Nat's" discs, wrote a commentator in The American Negro, "would be supporting his 'traitor' ideas and narrow way of thinking".
Deeply hurt by criticism in the black press, Cole was chastened. Emphasizing his opposition to racial segregation "in any form", he agreed to join other entertainers in boycotting segregated venues and paid $500 to become a lifetime member of the Detroit branch of the NAACP. Until his death in 1965, Cole was an active and visible participant in the civil rights movement, playing an important role in planning the March on Washington in 1963.


=== Politics ===
Cole performed in 1956 for President Dwight D. Eisenhower's televised birthday celebration. At the 1956 Republican National Convention, he sang "That's All There Is to That" and was "greeted with applause".
Cole was also present at the Democratic National Convention in 1960 to support Senator John F. Kennedy. Cole was among the dozens of entertainers recruited by Frank Sinatra to perform at the Kennedy Inaugural gala in 1961. Cole consulted with Kennedy and his successor, Lyndon B. Johnson, on civil rights.


== Illness and death ==
In September 1964, Cole began to lose weight and experienced back problems. He collapsed with pain after performing at the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas. In December, Cole was working in San Francisco when he was finally persuaded by friends to seek medical help. A malignant tumor in an advanced state of growth on Cole's left lung was observed on a chest X-ray. Cole, who was a heavy cigarette smoker, had lung cancer and was expected to have only months to live. Against his doctors' advice, Cole carried on his work and made his final recordings between December 1 and 3 in San Francisco, with an orchestra conducted by Ralph Carmichael. The music was released on the album L-O-V-E shortly before Cole died. His daughter noted later that he did this to ensure the welfare of his family.
Cole entered Saint John's Health Center in Santa Monica on December 7, 1964, and cobalt therapy was started on December 10. Frank Sinatra performed in Cole's place at the grand opening of the new Dorothy Chandler Pavilion of the Los Angeles Music Center on December 12. Cole's condition gradually worsened, but he was released from the hospital over the New Year's period. At home, Cole was able to see the hundreds of thousands of cards and letters that had been sent after news of his illness was made public. Cole returned to the hospital in early January 1965. He also sent $5,000 (US$52,000 in 2025 dollars) to actress and singer Gunilla Hutton, with whom Cole had been romantically involved since early 1964.
Hutton later telephoned Maria and implored her to divorce him. Maria confronted her husband, and Cole finally broke off the relationship with Hutton. Cole's illness reconciled him with his wife, and Cole vowed that if he recovered, he would go on television to urge people to stop smoking. On January 25, Cole's entire left lung was surgically removed. His father died of heart problems on February 1. Throughout Cole's illness, his publicists promoted the idea that he would soon be well and working, despite the private knowledge of his terminal condition. Billboard magazine reported that "Nat King Cole has successfully come through a serious operation and... the future looks bright for 'the master' to resume his career again". On Valentine's Day, Cole and his wife briefly left St. John's to drive by the sea. Cole died at the hospital early in the morning hours of Monday, February 15, 1965, at the age of 45.

Cole's funeral was held on February 18 at St. James' Episcopal Church on Wilshire Boulevard in Los Angeles; 400 people were present inside the church, and thousands gathered outside. Hundreds of members of the public had filed past the coffin the day before. Honorary pallbearers included Robert F. Kennedy, Count Basie, Frank Sinatra, Sammy Davis Jr., Johnny Mathis, George Burns, Danny Thomas, Jimmy Durante, Alan Livingston, Frankie Laine, Steve Allen, and Pat Brown, the governor of California.
The eulogy was delivered by Jack Benny, who said that "Nat Cole was a man who gave so much and still had so much to give. He gave it in song, in friendship to his fellow man, devotion to his family. He was a star, a tremendous success as an entertainer, an institution. But he was an even greater success as a man, as a husband, as a father, as a friend." Cole's remains were interred in Freedom Mausoleum at Forest Lawn Memorial Park, in Glendale, California.


== Posthumous releases ==
Cole's last album, L-O-V-E, was recorded in early December 1964—just a few days before he entered the hospital for cancer treatment—and was released just before his death. It peaked at number 4 on the Billboard Albums chart in the spring of 1965. A Best Of album was certified a gold record in 1968. His 1957 recording of "When I Fall in Love" reached number 4 in the UK charts in 1987, released in reaction to a version by Rick Astley challenging for the coveted Christmas number 1 spot.
In 1983, an archivist for EMI Electrola Records, a subsidiary of EMI (Capitol's parent company until 2013) in Germany, discovered some unreleased recordings by Cole, including one in Japanese and another in Spanish ("Tu Eres Tan Amable"). Capitol released them later that year as the LP Unreleased.
In 1991, Mosaic Records released The Complete Capitol Records Recordings of the Nat King Cole Trio, a compilation of 349 songs available as an 18-CD or a 27-LP set. In 2008, it was re-released in digital-download format through services like iTunes and Amazon Music.
Also in 1991, Natalie Cole recorded a new vocal track that was mixed with her father's 1961 stereo re-recording of his 1951 hit "Unforgettable" for a tribute album of the same title on Elektra Records. The song and album won seven Grammy awards in 1992 for Best Album and Best Song.
There have been many tribute albums, including one by his brother, Freddy. Randy Napoleon, Freddy Cole's guitarist and arranger for 13 years, has performed and recorded tributes to the Cole family.
In 2009, the year of the inauguration of Barack Obama as America's first black president, Capitol released an album Voices of Change, Then and Now. On this album is the song "We Are Americans Too" that Capitol did not release in 1956, the year that Nat King Cole wrote it.


== Discography ==

His hit singles include "Straighten Up and Fly Right" 1944 No. 8, "The Christmas Song" 1946/1962/2018 No. ?/No. 65/No. 11, "Nature Boy" 1948 No. 1, "Mona Lisa 1950 No. 1, "Frosty, The Snowman" 1950 No. 9, "Too Young" 1951 No. 1, "Unforgettable" 1951 No. 12, "Somewhere Along the Way" 1952 No. 8, "Answer Me, My Love" 1954 No. 6, "A Blossom Fell" 1955 No. 2, "If I May" 1955 No. 8, "Send for Me" 1957 No. 6, "Looking Back" 1958 No. 5, "Ramblin' Rose" 1962 No. 2, "Those Lazy, Hazy, Crazy Days of Summer" 1963 No. 6, and "Unforgettable" 1991 (with daughter Natalie).


== Filmography ==


=== Film ===


=== Television ===


== Awards and honors ==

Cole was inducted into the Alabama Music Hall of Fame and the Alabama Jazz Hall of Fame. He was awarded the Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award in 1990. In 1992, Cole received the Sammy Cahn Lifetime Achievement Award from the Songwriters Hall of Fame. He was also inducted into the DownBeat Jazz Hall of Fame in 1997 and the Hit Parade Hall of Fame in 2007. A United States postage stamp with Cole's likeness was issued in 1994. Cole was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2000, and the Latin Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2013. NPR named him one of the 50 Great Voices.
Cole's success at Capitol Records, for which he recorded more than 150 singles that reached the Billboard Pop, R&B, and Country charts, has yet to be matched by any Capitol artist. Cole's records sold 50 million copies during his career. His recording of "The Christmas Song" still receives airplay every holiday season, even hitting the Billboard Top 40 in December 2017. In 2020, Cole was inducted into the National Rhythm & Blues Hall of Fame.


== See also ==

List of African-American firsts
List of Freemasons
The Ethel Waters Show


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Dobbins, Bill; Wang, Richard (September 28, 2016). "Cole, Nat 'King'.". Grove Music Online. Oxford Music Online. Oxford University Press.
Epstein, Daniel Mark (1999). Nat King Cole. New York: Farrar Straus Giroux. ISBN 978-0374219123.
Friedwald, Will (2020). Straighten Up and Fly Right: The Life and Music of Nat King Cole. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0190882044.
Gourse, Leslie (1991). Unforgettable: The Life & Mystique of Nat King Cole. St. Martine's Press. ISBN 0-312-07877-3.
Haskins, James (1990). Nat King Cole. With Kathleen Benson. Scaborough House. ISBN 0-8128-8522-8.
Pelote, Vincent (1993). "Book Reviews: "Unforgettable: The Life and Mystique of Nat King Cole," by Leslie Gourse". Quarterly Journal of the Music Library Association. 49 (3): 1073–1074.


== External links ==

Nat King Cole at IMDb
Nat King Cole at AllMusic
Nat King Cole discography at Discogs
Nat King Cole at NPR.org
Nat "King" Cole article in the Encyclopedia of Alabama Archived December 14, 2010, at the Wayback Machine
"Nat King Cole". Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.

This is a list of active Australian rules football leagues in Victoria and its active clubs as of 2015.


== Victorian Football League ==


== Metropolitan Leagues ==


=== Victorian Amateur Football Association ===


=== Eastern Football League ===

Junior Clubs

Glen Waverley Rovers
Lysterfield FC
St Simons FC


=== Essendon District Football League ===


=== Northern Football League ===

Junior Clubs


=== Southern Football League ===


=== Western Region Football League ===


== Major Country Leagues ==


=== Ballarat Football League ===


=== Bellarine Football League ===


=== Bendigo Football League ===


=== Central Murray Football League ===


=== Geelong Football League ===


=== Gippsland Football League ===


=== Goulburn Valley Football League ===


=== Hampden Football League ===


=== Mornington Peninsula Nepean Football League ===


=== Murray Football League ===


=== North Central Football League ===


=== Outer East Football League ===


=== Ovens and Murray Football League ===


=== Sunraysia Football League ===


=== Wimmera Football League ===


== District Country Leagues ==
Central Highlands Football League

Colac and District Football League

East Gippsland Football League

Ellinbank and District Football League

Geelong and District Football League

Heathcote and District Football League

Horsham and District Football League

Kyabram and District Football League

Loddon Valley Football League

Maryborough Castlemaine District Football League

Mid Gippsland Football League

Millewa Football League

Mininera and District Football League

North Gippsland Football League

Omeo and District Football League

Ovens and King Football League

Picola and District Football League

Riddell District Football League

South West District Football League

Tallangatta and District Football League

Upper Murray Football League

Warrnambool and District Football League

West Gippsland Football League

Western Border Football League


== Junior Football Leagues ==
AFL Barwon Junior Football League
Albury Wodonga Junior Football League
Ballarat Junior Football League
Bendigo Junior Football League
Central Gippsland Junior Football League
Football Netball East Gippsland
Frankston and Districts Junior Football League
Mornington Peninsula Junior Football League
Riddell District Junior Football League
Hampden Junior Football League
Sale & District Junior Football League
Saturday Football League
Seymour & District Junior Football League
Shepparton Junior Football Football League
South East Metro Junior Football League
South East Junior Football League
Southern Gippsland Junior Football Competition
Traralgon & District Junior Football League
Wangaratta & District Junior Football League
Warragul & District Junior Football League
West Gippsland Junior Football Competition
Greater South West Junior Football League
Yarra Junior Football League

This article shows statistics of individual players for the Cibalia football club. It also lists all matches that Cibalia played in the 2012–13 season.
Cibalia finished 11th in the final league standings.


== First-team squad ==
As of 22 October 2012

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


== Competitions ==


=== Overall ===


=== Prva HNL ===


==== Classification ====


==== Results summary ====


==== Results by round ====


== Matches ==


=== Prva HNL ===


=== Croatian Cup ===

Sources: Prva-HNL.hr[link removed]


== Player seasonal records ==
Competitive matches only. Updated to games played 8 December 2012.


=== Top scorers ===

Source: Competitive matches


== References ==

The 2021–22 LIU Sharks men's basketball team represented Long Island University in the 2021–22 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Sharks, led by fifth-year head coach Derek Kellogg, played their home games at the Steinberg Wellness Center in Brooklyn, New York as members of the Northeast Conference (NEC).


== Previous season ==
The Sharks finished the 2020–21 season 9–9, 9–9 in NEC play to finish in a three-way tie for fifth place. Due to complications caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, only the top four teams were eligible to participate in the NEC tournament.


== Roster ==


== Schedule and results ==

Sources


== References ==

Basilisk Crag is a linear serrated cliff in the South Shetland Islands. It trends north-east, rising to about 70 metres (230 ft) above sea level on the southeast shore of Griffin Cove, Livingston Island. The cliff is one of several features given the name of “fabulous beasts” in the Williams Point area. It was named by the UK Antarctic Place-Names Committee in 1998 after the Basilisk, reputed "king of the serpents", and also because the feature was thought to crudely resemble the modern-day basilisk lizard.


== References ==
 This article incorporates public domain material from "Basilisk Crag". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey.

The McKinney Courier-Gazette is a weekly newspaper published in McKinney, Texas, covering Collin County. It is published under the heading Star Local Media  on Fridays.
1013 Communications acquired it from American Community Newspapers in 2011.
The newspaper has a weekly print circulation as well as daily online contribution.


== References ==


== External links ==
McKinney Courier-Gazette

The Golden Gizmo is a 1954 novel by the thriller writer Jim Thompson.


== Plot ==
Toddy Kent, a former con-artist with a rap sheet in a dozen cities is now working as a door to door gold-buyer in Los Angeles for Milt Vonderheim's jewelry shop. Despite his disreputable line of work, he is able to keep a low profile in fear of the police digging into his criminal past. He lives in a hotel with his wife Elaine. Elaine spends most of Toddy's money on booze, and is a regular in the drunk tank. Their relationship is toxic but Toddy can't bring himself to leave Elaine, despite his friends urging him to. Milt has been a fatherly figure and a good friend to Toddy and Elaine.
Toddy conceptualizes he has carried a "gizmo," a G.I. term for an unidentifiable, most of his life that time and again brings him the big break most men would kill for, only for it to slip through his fingers.
At the outset of the story, Toddy is working and despite wanting to quit for the day, he calls on the last house in the neighborhood. A man named Alvarado, whom Toddy will refer to as "Chinless," answers the door with his massive dobermann which seems to be able to speak English. Toddy has a bad feeling about the man, who invites him in, and although he wants to excuse himself he steps inside. In the living room Toddy spots a heavy gold watch on the table, and is introduced to Alvarado's beautiful companion Dolores Chavez. Paralyzed by fear of the dobermann, Toddy nervously attempts to explain the meaning of his visit. He opens the box he carries to show Alvarado his haul for the day. To demonstrate that he buys gold he picks the watch up off the table, discovering that it weighs ten times what it looks like it should. Inexplicably Alvarado tries to kick Toddy, but hits the dobermann instead. While the doberman is pouncing on Alvarado, Toddy unconsciously drops the gold watch into his box and escapes.
Toddy heads back to Milt's shop, and Milt informs him that Elaine is in jail again. Toddy bails her out and takes her back to their hotel. The two argue and Elaine locks herself in the bathroom. While she is showering Toddy opens his box and discovers Alvarado's golden watch. Upon examination, he realizes its casing is made of a pound of twenty-four karat, pure gold. He hides the watch in his drawer and goes to Milt's shop. He asks Milt about selling large quantities of gold but Milt, knowing the risks, is not interested. Toddy heads back home and finds his room ransacked and Elaine strangled to death with a stocking. He looks out the window and sees a man on the fire escape with his leg caught.
The man is Donald, an enforcer for a small-time protection racket run by a man named Shake. Toddy forces Donald back to Shake's hideout and interrogates the two men. Donald claims to know nothing of Elaine's murder or the gold watch, he merely came upon the scene having gone to the hotel to extort Toddy. Toddy wrestles with feelings of guilt and relief at Elaine's death, and ponders leaving town, as he will be the prime suspect in her murder.
Out on the street Toddy spots Dolores in a parked convertible with the dobermann in the back seat. The dobermann chases Toddy down and brings him back to the car. Dolores takes Toddy to Alvarado's house. Alvarado demands Toddy return the gold watch but Toddy tells him it is gone and his wife has been murdered. Alvarado denies involvement, and Dolores corroborates this by saying she checked out the hotel room and there was no dead body. Alvarado reveals he is an agent of a foreign government-operated gold-smuggling ring. He tells Toddy his gold supplier wants out of the operation and probably murdered Elaine to frame Alvarado thus blowing the ring's cover. He tells Toddy to wait for him in Tijuana.
Milt takes a phone call from Alvarado revealing that he is the gold-supplier to Alvarado's group of South American gold-smugglers and he murdered Elaine to get Toddy out of the picture.
Meanwhile, a bale bondsman named Airedale Aahrens is hired to bring Elaine into court for her misdemeanor drunk and disorderly. He goes to Toddy's hotel room but finds nothing except a wisp of hair in the clamp of the incinerator stack. He suspects Elaine is dead and her body was burned.
Toddy meets Dolores in Tijuana and she takes him to San Diego to see Alvarado. Later Alvarado reveals he intends to silence them all to conceal his operation and shows Toddy two coffins containing his dobermann and Dolores, both drugged with chloroform. A struggle ensues, shots are fired, and the dobermann wakes up and kills Alvarado. Toddy revives Dolores from the chloroform and they share an intimate moment just as the police arrive. Toddy is arrested and Dolores is released because she has a student visa and no criminal record.
In police custody Toddy has concluded that Milt is Alvarado's gold supplier and convinces treasury agent McKinley to release him to track Milt down. Toddy goes to Milt's shop and accuses him of the whole plot. Dolores arrives, as she had been lured there by Milt. Elaine, who faked her own death, emerges with a gun from behind a curtain. Milt wanted to steal Elaine from Toddy, and brought her into the plot with the promise of living rich. Milt and Elaine take Toddy and Dolores in a car to the beach to kill them and dispose of their bodies in the ocean. Elaine double-crosses Milt and shoots him. Just as she is about to shoot Toddy, federal agents who had been tailing them arrive and gun her down. Toddy reflects that his golden gizmo is finally gone for good.


== References ==


== External links ==
Goodreads

The Djinguereber Mosque (Arabic: مسجد دجينجيربر; French: Mosquée de Djinguereber; from Koyra Chiini jiŋgar-ey beer 'grand mosque'), also known as Djingareyber or Djingarey Ber, is a famous learning center in Timbuktu, Mali. Built in 1327, it is one of three mosques associated with the historical community of scholars and students known today as the "University of Timbuktu". It was inscribed on the list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites in 1988.


== Design ==
The design and construction of the Djinguereber mosque is traditionally credited to the Andalusi scholar Abu Ishaq Al Sahili. According to Ibn Khaldun, one of the best-known sources on 14th-century Mali, he was said to have received 12,000 mithkals of gold dust for the work. More recent analyses reject this version, demonstrating that the architectural style of the Djinguereber Mosque and others in West Africa derives mainly from mosques in the Sahara and traditional African architecture and religions, so that al-Sahili's influence on West African architecture is treated as a myth.
Except for a small part of the northern facade, which was reinforced in the 1960s in alhore (limestone blocks, also widely used in the rest of the town), and the minaret, also built in limestone and rendered with mud, the Djingareyber Mosque is made entirely of earth plus organic materials such as fibre, straw and wood. It has three inner courts, two minarets and twenty-five rows of pillars aligned in an east-west direction and a prayer space for 2,000 people.


== History ==


=== Foundation of the mosque ===
The creation of Djinguereber mosque is attributed to Mansa Musa in 1325. Its Sudano-Sahelian architecture differs stylistically from the mosques of North Africa and Andalusia. 
The mosque is sometimes credited to the Granadan poet Abū Isḥāq al-Sāḥilī, whom Mansa Musa brought to Mali after the 1324 hajj, but J. O. Hunwick has shown that al-Sāḥilī is firmly attested in the Arabic sources only as the designer of a royal audience chamber at the city of Mali, and that his role there appears to have been organisational rather than that of a structural architect.


=== Medieval period ===
During the reign of Askia Dawud of the Songhai Empire, Djinguereber mosque was renovated by the Qadi of Timbuktu Aqib ibn Mahmud beginning in 1570. The work was a source of conflict between the Askia and the Qadi, who resented the renovated mosque's association with a secular power.


=== Post-independence ===
On 26 February 2010, during Mawlid (a festival to mark the birth anniversary of Muhammad), a stampede at the mosque killed around 26 people and injured at least 55 others, mostly women and children.


=== Attack in 2012 ===

On 1 July 2012, militant Islamists of the Ansar Dine ("defenders of faith") began destroying the tombs of Timbuktu shortly after UNESCO placed them on a list of endangered World Heritage sites. They set about destroying seven of Timbuktu's total sixteen ancient Muslim saint shrines, including two tombs at the Djingareyber Mosque. Using "hoes, pick-axes and chisels, they hammered away at the two earthen tombs until they were completely destroyed".  The damage to the mosque itself, however, was minimal.


== Preservation efforts ==
The mosque was on the UN's list of World Heritage Sites in danger in 1990 due to sand encroachment from increasing desertification. A four-year project towards the restoration and rehabilitation of the Mosque began in June 2006, and is being conducted and financed by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture.
The first phase of restoration was a pilot project undertaken from November 2006 to July 2007. This work included drainage and paving around the mosque, re-rendering walls in bad condition and in one zone of the roof, replacing around 50% of the beams, above which was a heavy build-up of mud plaster. The local masons in charge of the project clearly had good technical expertise; however, there is a need to regularly document their activities and starting point. Natural local trees that were originally used for building materials for the beams in the mosque have also disappeared due to climate change, so wood beams must be imported from Ghana. This drastically increases the price of resources needed to restore the mosque, as building materials are not readily available. Despite ongoing maintenance efforts, there is still a one-meter difference between the roof height in 1952 and today.
While drought may cause issues, too much rain has also shown to be detrimental to the mosque. Heavy rains in 1999, 2001 and 2003 caused the collapse of many traditionally built earthen buildings, as well as more recently built structures. Climate change is expected to increase the severity of these threats.
After being de-listed in 2005, the Djinguereber has once again been on the list of World Heritage Sites in danger since the attack by Ansar Dine in 2012.


== 3D model with laser-scanning ==
The Zamani Project documents cultural heritage sites in 3D to create a record for future generations. The documentation of the Djinguereber Mosque is based on terrestrial laser-scanning. The 3D documentation of the Djinguereber Mosque was carried out in 2005. A 3D model, plans and images can be viewed here.


== See also ==
Lists of mosques
List of mosques in Africa
List of mosques in Egypt


== References ==

Translated from Ibn Khaldun, loc. cit., p. 348.


== External links ==

Photos/Pictures of Timbuktu, Mali

Queen Blessing Ebigieson (born 14 April 1980) is a Nigerian actress, movie producer, TV host and filmmaker. She won the Best Actress (Indigenous) award and the Best Film (Indigenous) award for her production of Ileri Ife at the 2016 Eko International Film Festival. She received the Special Recognition Award at the 2021 City People Movie Awards for her contributions to the Nigerian movie industry.


== Early life ==
Queen Blessing Ebigieson is a native of Okpella, Edo State, Nigeria. She was born in Benue State and raised in the Northern part of Nigeria. She attended Federal Polytechnic Bida, where she obtained a degree in Mass communication in 2006. She received honorary doctorate degree in administration (decision-making process) from Rescue Mission Theological University in 2022.


== Career ==
Queen Blessing Ebigieson started her career as a dancer and later went into modelling. She started acting in 2000 as an undergraduate. Her first film is Ashes to Ashes in Enugu State where she acted three scenes in the movie.
She has appeared in movies such as Eldorado, Girls Next Door, Back 2 Back, Empty Coffin and soap operas such as Wale Adenuga's Super Story. Since her rise to fame, she proceeded to act in over 80 movies. She owns BQ Productions and has Produced up to ten films since 2009 such as Borokini, Ife Otito, Ejomiko, Ileri Ife, Ibaje Mi Dewa, Fix it or Kill it and Hatred.
She runs Queen Blessing Foundation (QBF) and also an National Drug Law Enforcement Agency Celebrity Drug Free Club ambassador. She has been serving as the 8th National President of the Association of Movie Producers (AMP) Nigeria since March 2023 after taking over from Peace Anyiam-Osigwe, following her unfortunate demise.


== Personal life ==
Queen Blessing Ebigieson has a son with John Okosun of Reality Magazine and five adopted daughters. She is a practicing Christian.


== Filmography ==


== References ==

Frederick Lloyd Roche, CBE (11 March 1931 – 9 November 1992), was a British architect who worked on the programme of new towns in the United Kingdom. He was Chief Architect of Runcorn Development Corporation from 1965 to 1970 and General Manager of the Milton Keynes Development Corporation from 1970 to 1981. In 1985, he was appointed a CBE.


== Career ==
Roche trained at Regent Street Polytechnic (now University of Westminster) and qualified in 1955. He remained in London for three years working as a housing architect and moved to Coventry in 1958 where he became an architect specialising in schools. In 1963, he returned to housing when he became principal development architect for the Midlands Housing Consortium.
In 1965, Roche became chief architect and planning officer for Runcorn new town. He led on the design of the new town centre, Runcorn Shopping City.
In 1970, he moved to Milton Keynes in north Buckinghamshire to be General Manager of the Development Corporation at the age of 39. He oversaw the major growth of the 'new city' through to 1981.
Thereafter, he joined with Terence Conran to establish the new architecture and planning consultancy, Conran Roche. The company developed a number of projects during the 1980s, including Butler's Wharf and Michelin House in London. He retired as managing director in 1988 due to ill health.


== Awards and recognition ==
In 1985 Roche was appointed a CBE. He was a vice-president of the Royal Institute of British Architects from 1983 to 1985 and honorary treasurer from 1985 to 1986.
He is commemorated in Milton Keynes by having a linear civic garden named for him.


== References ==


== External links ==
The Fred Roche Foundation

"Precious Illusions" is a song written, performed, and produced by Canadian singer Alanis Morissette for her fifth studio album, Under Rug Swept (2002). It released as the album's second and final international single on May 20, 2002. Its lyrics describe a conflict between idealism and realism, and its protagonist refers to her childhood fancies as "precious illusions" that she has distanced herself from with a feeling that reminds her of "parting with an imaginary friend".
"Precious Illusions" did not receive as much radio airplay in the United States as "Hands Clean", the first single from Under Rug Swept. It peaked within the top 20 on Billboard's Adult Top 40 chart but garnered little Top 40 radio play compared to "Hands Clean" and failed to chart on the US Billboard Hot 100. However, it reached number four in Canada and peaked within the top 10 in Hungary. The music video for the song is presented in split screen, offering a side-by-side comparison of the mythic and the real versions of a romantic relationship.


== Recording and release ==
"Precious Illusions" was all written, arranged and produced by Alanis Morissette. According to herself, "I went to Toronto to write and I didn't know whether I'd be writing songs for the record alone or with someone. I had no idea, but I started writing alone, and within the first week I'd written seven songs. So it was all really fast and accelerated [...] I'd have my little space station worked out where it was like a keyboard, an acoustic, an electric, my journal and a microphone set up, and we'd record it all onto DAT." After the success of previous single, "Hands Clean", "Precious Illusions" was announced as Under Rug Swept's second single after news that she was shooting its music video. "Precious Illusions" was first released in Australia on May 20, 2002. In the United Kingdom, two CD singles and a cassette single were issued on August 5, 2002.


== Composition and lyrics ==
"Precious Illusions" was written in the key of E major, with a moderate tempo of 92 beats per minute. Morissette's vocal range span from the low note of B4 to the high-note of C6. The song is "dressed up in toe-tapping rhythms, crunchy guitars and downright infectious melodies," as noted by Sal Cinquemani, editor of Slant Magazine. Larry Flick of Billboard Magazine added that the song has a "radio-ready arrangement rife with insinuating shuffle beats, U2-esque guitar licks, and a sticky, candy-sweet hook." The song "examines the pitfalls of relationships. In an interview for Yahoo! Music, Morissette said of "Precious Illusions": "As I evolve and as I grow older, a lot of the things I thought to be truths when I was younger just really aren't, and that's disillusioning. And there is a grief and a loss of sorts that happens when I segue from one awareness to another. And that's what I was singing about on that song."
Its lyrics describe a conflict between idealism and realism, and its protagonist refers to her childhood fancies as "precious illusions" that she has distanced herself from with a feeling that reminds her of "parting with an imaginary friend". Nonetheless, she demonstrates that she has retained a rose-tinted sense of romantic optimism into adulthood, when she expresses a yearning hope for marriage ("this ring") and a husband ("you knight in shining armor"). Flick of Billboard also noted that "there's a pointed edge of cynicism in such lines as "You'll complete me, right?/And my life can finally begin'." He also noted that Morissette "turn that cynicism into a catalyst for letting go of the notion of perfect romance and growing toward positive declarations like 'I won't keep playing the victim."
In a track-by-track commentary about Under Rug Swept, Morissette further commented about the track:

"There's a lyric in the middle of the song that says, 'I want to decide between survival and bliss.' Basically I'm talking about the difference between really being alive and really embracing the reason why I'm here on this earth versus my just being asleep and sleep walking and accepting the status quo and accepting somewhat of a suffering mentality to being here. It really is my responsibility to distinguish the difference between the two and choose which one I want. It's so easy for me to want to not take responsibility for my life and relinquish it and look outside of myself for the answers that I know very well are within me. It's so scary to be silent and it's so scary to go within, until I do it. And once I'm doing it, I just wonder why I wasn't doing this all the time. So that decision to be fully alive is one that is preceded by some pretty intense decisions and some choices and responsibility-taking that at times can be very intimidating, again, before I do it."


== Reception ==


=== Critical ===
Larry Flick of Billboard praised the song for "exemplif[ying] how the artist has actually matured significantly," also calling it a "sane self-empowerment". Flick also noted that Morissette "sells the song with a performance that is, by turns, introspective and chest-pounding." Sal Cinquemani of Slant Magazine praised the track for being "super-catchy," while Chris Heath of Dotmusic lauded the track for "confirm[ing] that, as a songwriter, Alanis is only getting better."


=== Commercial ===
"Precious Illusions" became a success in Canada, where it peaked at number four, and Hungary, reaching number nine. In Australia, the song debuted and peaked at number 41, on June 2, 2002. Although only reaching number 79 in Netherlands, the song managed to spend six weeks inside the charts. In the United Kingdom, "Precious Illusions" only reached number 59, becoming her second-lowest-charting single at the time. In the United States, the song failed to enter the Billboard Hot 100 chart but reached number 16 on the Adult Pop Songs chart.


== Music video ==
The single's music video was directed by Francis Lawrence, who helmed the "Hands Clean" video. It was filmed in late May 2002 and uses a split-screen effect. In the video for "Precious Illusions," Alanis Morissette is courted by a handsome prince (played by American actor Lucas Babin) who gives her a diamond and invites her to live happily ever after. However, while the left side of the screen follows the fairy-tale romance, the right side shows more a realistic view: in place of the prince, her suitor is a guy who asks her out by e-mail. As noted by Elysa Lee of CNN, "he does propose, but in a way that reminds us that love isn't all blossoms and butterflies." According to Morissette, "The right side is more me. I'm not anywhere near being in a position to ask or be asked, so it was charming and amusing."


== Track listings ==
Canadian CD single

"Precious Illusions"
"Hands Clean" (acoustic version)
UK and European CD1

"Precious Illusions"
"Hands Clean" (acoustic version)
"Sorry 2 Myself"
UK and European CD2

"Precious Illusions"
"Offer"
"Bent 4 U"
European maxi-CD single

"Precious Illusions" – 4:12
"Hands Clean" (acoustic version) – 4:07
"Offer" – 4:05
"Bent 4 U" – 4:46


== Charts ==


== Release history ==


== References ==

Gilbert Robert Beveridge (1903—1958) was an architect in Queensland, Australia. Some of his works are now heritage-listed.


== Early life ==
Gilbert Robert Beveridge was born in Brisbane on 28 February 1903, the son of Robert Leake Beveridge and his wife Eliza Ann (née Brown). He studied at the Brisbane Central Technical College and was indentured to Brisbane architect Lange Powell. Beveridge received his Diploma of Architecture from the Architectural Association in London and was awarded the Archibald Dawnay scholarship in 1927.


== Career ==
Beveridge had a practice at Ascot from 1931–35 after which time he was employed first as an Assistant Architect then in 1938 as an Architect by the Queensland Works Department Architectural Branch. Beveridge's work in private practice included residential and small commercial projects.
Beveridge also prepared the plans for the brick Bulimba State School building which was one of many substantial two and three storey schools built during this time, providing tangible proof of the Government's commitment to remedy the unemployment situation.


== Later life ==
Gilbert Beveridge died on 21 July 1958 in Brisbane.


== Works ==
His works include:

Bulimba State School
Maryborough Government Offices Building


== References ==


=== Attribution ===
 This Wikipedia article incorporates text from "The Queensland heritage register" published by the State of Queensland under CC-BY 3.0 AU licence (accessed on 7 July 2014, archived on 8 October 2014).

Dominique Alagia is a Czech beauty pageant titleholder who won Miss Grand Czech Republic 2026. She will represent the Czech Republic at Miss Grand International 2026.


== Pageantry ==
In May 2026, Dominique Alagia won Miss Grand Czech Republic 2026, held at the Forum Karlín in Prague, on 23 May 2026.
As the national titleholder, Alagia will represent the Czech Republic at Miss Grand International 2026, in October 2026 in Bangkok, Thailand.


== References ==


== External links ==

Braddish v DPP [2001] 3 IR 127 was an Irish Supreme Court decision that established principles in relation to gathering of evidence. The Supreme Court ruled that "the Gardaí are under a duty to seek out and preserve all evidence bearing on the guilt and innocence of an accused." Daniel Braddish, the applicant, sought a prohibitory injunction against his approaching prosecution for robbery. Video evidence of the alleged crime had been in the possession of the Gardaí but was no longer available. The effort to have the prosecution overturned was refused in the High Court. On appeal, the Supreme Court was satisfied that the Applicant was entitled to the relief sought and accordingly made an order to quash the prosecution.


== Background of the case ==


=== Facts of case ===
On 2 July 1997, a robbery occurred in a shop in Limerick which had been secured by surveillance camera. A Garda examined the tape and he concluded that it demonstrated the robbery in progress, clearly showing Braddish committing the crime. Subsequently, Braddish was arrested and detained under section 4 of the Criminal Justice Act 1984. While in custody, Braddish confessed and signed a statement that he had indeed committed the robbery. He was then released from custody and nine months later charged with the robbery. Braddish was first tried before the Limerick Circuit Criminal Court on 24 March 1999 and a retrial was ordered as the jury could not reach an agreement. The retrial was held before Haugh J on 20 April 1999 where he did not allow evidence in stills taken from the video tape while it was with the Garda. Haugh J prohibited the submission of this evidence because the actual video tape was not presented. Hence, the jury was discharged to save Braddish from being in an unfair situation before the Court. On 14 June 1999, he sought for judicial review on the basis that a continuation of his trial would a breach of his constitutional right to fair trial because the prosecution did not produce original evidence to him.


=== High Court decision ===
The Gardaí had been in possession of a video that showed the alleged crime. However, that evidence was no longer available. The videotape was returned to the shop after Braddish had confessed. Hence, Braddish had sought a prohibitory injunction against his approaching prosecution. Nevertheless, High Court refused such relief because the prosecution was relying on his confession rather than on the videotape. Had prosecution tried to rely on photographic evidence, then there would have been a significant problem as Braddish would not have had the opportunity to contest the evidence put against him. The Judge also took note of when the request for the video tape was made by the Counsel on behalf of Braddish.
The issue before the Court was whether or not there is a need to prevent Braddish's further prosecution solely because the video tape was now unavailable. That piece of evidence was vital as it showed Braddish executing the crime and this was the only evidence available which identified him as the perpetrator. No other identification evidence was presented.


== Holding of the Supreme Court ==
While in Garda custody, Braddish made an inculpatory statement by confessing that he was the culprit in the video tape which was also signed by him. The prosecution's case was based wholly on the alleged confession that was made by Braddish, rather than on the video tape evidence.
It was settled in this case that evidence admissible in relation to guilt or innocence must be preserved, heretofore necessary and practicable, until the judgment of the trial. This same rationale was accepted by Lynch J in the case of Robert Murphy v DPP which the Supreme Court cited and agreed to. Respondents asserted that at core this case was being advanced because of the alleged inculpatory statement made by Braddish. Even if the video tape was produced before the Court, Braddish would not benefit from it anyway and if anything, the only one at a disadvantage with the reintroduction of this tape is the prosecution. Hence, the absence of the video evidence should not be a sufficient ground for him to receive any relief from the Court.
In this case, Braddish pleaded not guilty despite his previous confession to the crime. If Braddish wanted to dispute his previous confession on the grounds that his detention was illegal, then it would be difficult to put forward a persuasive argument without the video evidence as his arrest was made solely on the basis of it. The stills presented before the lower court cannot be used for the purposes of identification evidence. Hardiman J disagreed with the contention that video tape had little importance in this case simply because the prosecution was not depending on it. Also, the confession evidence put forward was being highly contested against as well. It is well known that in matters of confession evidences, it should be used as corroborating evidence and a high reliance on it to convict an accused should be avoided. Besides, the video tape can be a tool to inculpate and exculpate Braddish. The Supreme Court concurred that the video tape should not have been returned and disposed of as it was real evidence of the guilt of the accused.
Hardiman J writing for the Court noted that "it is the duty of the Gardaí, arising from their unique investigative role, to seek out and preserve all evidence having a bearing or potential bearing on the issue of guilt or innocence." However, it was noted by the Court that this duty is not absolute where the evidence is not directly relevant to the case, and will be mitigated by considerations of practicability, feasibility and the availability of resources. Obiter dictum was created which means that where the evidence was not of direct and manifest relevance, then the duty to preserve and disclose had to be interpreted in a fair and reasonable manner on the facts of the particular case. Other pieces of evidence cannot be disposed simply because the argument is being made on the grounds of just one evidence. The destruction of any piece of evidence cannot be justified by saying it is not being used in the case. The Judge said this is because an evidence which the prosecution believes to be irrelevant could be considered to be of importance by the defense. This is why any real evidence should be preserved and disclosed to the defense counsel beforehand. In this case the Garda who disposed the video tape had said he believed the man on tape was Braddish. So, it is difficult to understand why then he did not preserve the evidence instead of getting rid of it. The Court also mentioned that a Garda has no right to destroy an evidence as he pleases. With respect to the time when the video was first requested, Hardiman J asserted that Braddish was not charged until nine months after his arrest and the request was made five months after this. He did not think it is reasonable to hold the request made for video tape against Braddish as there is contradicted evidence that Braddish made a formal request for it on the day he was charged as well. It is illogical to assume that he should have made a request before he was charged as there is no reason for the prosecution to present evidence before an accused is charged. Hardiman J also found that Braddish is entitled to apply for judicial review.
The Supreme Court overturned the High Court judgement and allowed the appeal as the video tape was not presented before the courts.


== References ==


== External links ==
https://www.irishstatutebook.ie/eli/1984/act/22/section/4/enacted/en/html

Moinuddin Ahmed is an All India United Democratic Front politician from Assam. 


== Early life ==
Ahmed was born in 1971 to a Muslim family in Dhubri, Goalpara. He was the son of Kefayat Ali. Ahmed holds Bachelor of Laws, Master of Arts and Bachelor of Education degrees.


== Career ==
He was elected to the Assam Legislative Assembly in the 2011 election from Jaleswar constituency.


== References ==

Americans for Prosperity Foundation v. Bonta, 141 S.Ct. 2373 (2021), is a United States Supreme Court case dealing with the disclosure of donors to non-profit organizations. The case challenged California's requirement that non-profit organizations disclose the identity of their donors to the state's Attorney General as a precondition of soliciting donations in the state. The case was consolidated with Thomas More Law Center v. Bonta. In July 2021, the Supreme Court ruled in a 6–3 decision that California's requirement burdened the donors' First Amendment rights, was not narrowly tailored, and was constitutionally invalid.


== Background ==
Under federal law, non-profit organizations are required to provide the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) with a list of major donors (those that donate more than $5,000 or 2% of the total donations to the non-profit in a year) with their annual tax forms, Form 990. This information, held on Schedule B "Schedule of Contributors" of Form 990, is treated as sensitive within the IRS and not shared with states unless there is a pressing need. While non-profits are required to make Form 990 publicly available, they are not required to include the Schedule B donor information. This was established by Congress to protect the privacy of donors to non-profits.
Within California, non-profits must renew their registration with the state annually via the state's attorney general's office. Though no state statute required it, in 2010 the state began requiring non-profits to include the Form 990 Schedule B with their registration, or be decertified in the state. While many non-profits complied, others argued that this was unconstitutional. Unlike the federal filings, the California filings served no tax purpose. Further, California lacked the protections against accidental disclosure—including penalties for publicly disclosing the information—that applied to the IRS. While the state gave assurances that these forms would be held in confidence, during litigation it was found where over 1,800 forms were posted online for public access, while others were included in material that was taken during a computer hack.


== Lower courts ==
Two of the non-profits affected, Americans for Prosperity and the Thomas More Law Center, filed suit against attorney general Kamala Harris in 2014 in the Central District of California. (Over the course of the litigation, the defendant shifted as the state Attorney General's office changed hands, from Harris to Xavier Becerra (AG from 2017 to 2021), to Matthew Rodriquez (acting AG in 2021), to Rob Bonta). The two non-profits argued that the California regulation on disclosure violated their freedom of association under the First Amendment and would scare away donors who otherwise wished to remain anonymous. The District Court granted a permanent injunction to prevent the state from collecting Schedule B from non-profits in a ruling in April 2016.
The state appealed the injunction to the Ninth Circuit. There, the Ninth Circuit reversed the District Court ruling and lifted the injunction. The three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit ruled that there was a compelling state interest to have the donor lists from the Schedule B form to police charitable fraud. The Ninth Circuit rejected a motion to hear the case en banc.


== Supreme Court ==
Both Americans for Prosperity and the Thomas More Law Center separately petitioned to the Supreme Court to challenge the Ninth Circuit's decision. Both petitioners argued that strict scrutiny—the Supreme Court's most demanding standard of review—should apply in evaluating whether their freedom of speech and association rights could be infringed by the needs of the state. The petitioners referenced the Court's decisions in NAACP v. Alabama (1958) and Bates v. City of Little Rock (1960), which found that states could not demand donor lists or other private information from non-profits to make determinations about the nature of their business if there were other non-intrusive methods available to the state. The petitions further argued that California's request for Schedule B was far broader than necessary for its purported need to fight fraud, which would also result in the state's rule failing the strict scrutiny test. Petitioners further argued that even if the less demanding exacting scrutiny test were applied, the California requirement was overly broad and hence unconstitutional.
In response, California urged the Court to review the case under the lower standard of exacting scrutiny. The State argued that the request for all Schedule B's was necessarily broad so that it could review records when complaints are filed against charities, and generally to police fraud. The state also asserted that there was no evidence from the petitioners that showed that this disclosure of the donors lists had slowed down or scared off potential donors to non-profits. The state claimed the public disclosure of thousands of Schedule B forms were practical failures but should not affect the overall constitutionality of the policy.
In amicus briefs prior to the Court's certification, hundreds of non-profits wrote to support the petitioners' case. Those in support of California, including Democratic Senators, argued that upholding the Ninth Circuit decision was necessary to prevent the increased use of political "dark money" donated through non-profits.
The Court certified both cases in January 2021, consolidating them under Americans for Prosperity's petition. Prior to oral arguments, several groups petitioned for Justice Amy Coney Barrett to recuse herself from the case, as Americans for Prosperity had spent significant funds for an ad campaign to promote her as the replacement justice for Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Barrett refused to recuse herself without comment.
The Court heard oral arguments on April 26, 2021, and issued its decision on July 1, 2021. The 6–3 decision reversed the Ninth Circuit's ruling and remanded the case to enter judgment in accordance with the Supreme Court's opinion. The majority opinion, written by Chief Justice John Roberts and joined by Justices Clarence Thomas, Samuel Alito, Neil Gorsuch, Brett Kavanaugh, and Amy Coney Barrett, ruled that California's regulation violated the First Amendment rights of donors and non-profits, did not serve a narrowly tailored government interest, and thus was invalid. Roberts wrote "The upshot is that California casts a dragnet for sensitive donor information from tens of thousands of charities each year, even though that information will become relevant in only a small number of cases involving filed complaints."
Justice Sonia Sotomayor authored a dissent, which Justices Stephen Breyer and Elena Kagan joined. Sotomayor wrote that the majority decision would open up more anonymous money into political donations, and that their evaluation of California's regulation "trades precision for blunt force" and creates a "significant risk that it will topple disclosure regimes that should be constitutional."
Although the case was widely cited in the media as a conservative victory, the American Civil Liberties Union, NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, and the Human Rights Campaign were among the non-profits filing or signing on to amicus briefs in support of Americans for Prosperity Foundation.


== References ==


== External links ==
Text of Americans for Prosperity Foundation v. Bonta, No. 19-251, 594 U.S. ___ (2021) is available from: Google Scholar  Justia  Oyez (oral argument audio)  Supreme Court (slip opinion)

Richard Noel Skehan (born 6 December 1944)  is an Irish former hurler who played as a goalkeeper at senior level for the Kilkenny county team.
Born in Bennettsbridge, County Kilkenny, Skehan first arrived on the inter-county scene at the age of sixteen when he first linked up with the Kilkenny minor team before later joining the under-21 side. He joined the senior panel during the 1963 championship. Skehan spent almost a decade as a substitute before becoming a regular member of the starting fifteen and won nine All-Ireland medals (three of which were as a substitute), fourteen Leinster medals (six as a substitute) and three National Hurling League medals on the field of play. He was an All-Ireland runner-up on five occasions.
As a member of the Leinster inter-provincial team on a number of occasions Skehan won four Railway Cup medals. At club level he is a six-time championship medallist with Bennettsbridge. Throughout his career Skehan made 42 championship appearances. He retired from inter-county hurling following the conclusion of the 1984-85 league.
In retirement from playing Skehan became involved in team management and coaching. After guiding the Kilkenny junior team to All-Ireland he also took charge of the intermediate side. As a selector under Brian Cody he guided the Kilkenny senior team to three All-Ireland titles.
Skehan is widely regarded as one of the greatest goalkeepers of all time. During his playing days he won seven All-Star awards as well as being named Texaco Hurler of the Year. He has often been voted onto teams made up of the sport's greats, including as goalkeeper on the Supreme All-Stars team. Skehan was also chosen as one of the 125 greatest hurlers of all time in a 2009 poll.


== Club career ==
Skehan played his club hurling with Bennettsbridge and joined the senior team in 1963. Beginning his career as an outfield player, he scored a goal from wing-forward when Bennettsbridge won the Kilkenny SHC title in 1964, following a 4–09 to 1–04 win over Glenmore. Skehan was again in the forwards when Bennettsbridge were beaten by Mooncoin in the 1965 Kilkenny SHC final.
By the time Bennettsbridge qualified to play Mooncoin in the 1966 Kilkenny SHC final, Skehan had become the team's first-choice goalkeeper. He claimed a second winners' medal after the 4–08 to 2–04 victory. The 1967 Kilkenny SHC final saw him make his fourth consecutive appearance in a final. Skehan ended the game with a third winners' medal as Thomastown were beaten by 3–10 to 1–04.
A defeat by Rower–Inistioge in a fifth straight final appearance in 1968 was followed by Skehan claiming a fourth and final winners' medal in 1971, following a 3–10 to 1–07 win over Fenians. Skehan had further finals appearances and defeats in 1972 and 1974. He continued to line out with Bennettsbridge, both as an outfield player and in goal, and ended his 25-year career with the club's junior team.


== Inter-county career ==
Skehan first appeared on the inter-county scene with Kilkenny as goalkeeper on the minor team in 1962. He won a Leinster MHC title that year, before later claiming an All-Ireland MHC medal following Kilkenny's 3–06 to 0–09 win over Tipperary in the final. Skehan immediately progressed to the intermediate team, while he was also in goal for Kilkenny's very first under-21 team in 1964.
By that stage, Skehan had also joined Kilkenny's senior team as understudy to his cousin and regular goalkeeper Ollie Walsh. It was a role he had for almost a decade, during which time he was part of the All-Ireland SHC-winning teams in 1963, 1967 and 1969. He later commented: "It was no hardship to sit on the bench because I knew I was a sub to the best goalkeeper in Ireland." Walsh's six-month suspension in 1968 resulted in Skehan making his Leinster SHC debut in a semi-final defeat of Offaly in June 1968.
Skehan replaced Walsh as first-choice goalkeeper in 1972, as well as serving as team captain for the year. He won the first of four consecutive Leinster SHC medals on the field of play, before later lining out in goal against Cork in the 1972 All-Ireland SHC final. The 3–24 to 5–11 win gave Skehan his first All-Ireland SHC medal on the field of play, while he also had the honour of accepting the Liam MacCarthy Cup on behalf of his team. He ended the year by winning the first of five consecutive All-Stars.
After losing the 1973 All-Ireland SHC final to Limerick, Kilkenny reclaimed the title the following year with a 3–19 to 1–13 defeat of Limerick. Skehan claimed a third All-Ireland SHC winners' medal in three seasons after once again lining out in goal in Kikenny's 2–22 to 2–10 defeat of Galway in the 1975 All-Ireland SHC final.
Skehan added a National Hurling League medal to his collection in 1976, however, Wexford ended Kilkenny's Leinster SHC campaigns in 1976 and 1977, before a defeat to Cork in the 1978 All-Ireland SHC final. He won his fourth All-Ireland SHC medal of the decade after Kilkenny's 2–12 to 1–08 win over Galway in the 1979 All-Ireland SHC final.
After claiming his second National League title in 1982, Skehan won a seventh Leinster SHC medal on the field of play, after a 1–11 to 0–12 win over Offaly. Kilkenny subsequently beat Cork by 3–18 to 1–13 in the 1982 All-Ireland SHC final. It was a fifth All-Ireland SHC winners' medal on the field of play for Skehan and, combined with the three medals he also won as a substitute, he joined Christy Ring and John Doyle as the holder of a record eight All-Ireland SHC medals. He ended the season by winning a sixth All-Star, as well as being named Hurler of the Year. Kilkenny retained their National League and Leinster SHC titles the following year, while the 2–14 to 2–12 win over Cork in the 1983 All-Ireland SHC final gave Skehan a record-breaking ninth All-Ireland SHC medal in total - 20 years after winning his first. He also became the oldest hurler to win an All-Star, after claiming a then record seventh award.
Skehan retired from inter-county hurling in April 1985.


== Inter-provincial career ==
Skehan's performances at inter-county level with Kilkenny earned him selection to the Leinster inter-provincial team. He first played for the province in 1973 and ended his debut year with his first Railway Cup medal, following a 1–13 to 2–08 win over Munster. It was the first of three successive winners' medals, as Leinster had further victories over Munster in 1974 and 1975. Skehan remained as Leinster's first-choice goalkeeper for much of his 11-year association with the provincial team. He won a fourth and final Railway Cup medal in 1979, but continued to be selected for the team until 1985.


== Management career ==
Skehan first became involved in inter-county management when he succeeded Ollie Walsh as coach–trainer of Kilkenny's junior team in 1991. He guided the team to five Leinster JHC titles in six seasons between 1991 and 1996. Skehan's team had All-Ireland JHC final defeats in 1993, 1994 and 1996, however, Kilkenny beat Clare by 1–20 to 1–06 in the 1995 All-Ireland JHC final.
Following a restructuring of the All-Ireland JHC, Skehan took over as coach of Kilkenny's intermediate team in 1997. He guided the team to four consecutive Leinster IHC titles between 1997 and 2000, as well as consecutive All-Ireland IHC final defeats in 1997 and 1998.
Skehan replaced Ger Henderson as a selector with the Kilkenny senior team under manager Brian Cody in November 2001. His three years in that role saw Kilkenny win consecutive National League and Leinster SHC titles in 2002 and 2003. Skehan also served as manager of the Leinster team that won consecutive Railway Cup titles in 2002 and 2003.


== Personal life ==
Skehan was born in Bennettsbridge, County Kilkenny in December 1944. His uncle, Dan Kennedy, captained Kilkenny to the All-Ireland SHC title in 1947. A cousin, Ollie Walsh, preceded Skehan as Kilkenny goalkeeper, while another cousin, Michael Walsh, succeeded him in goal. Skehan joined the Smithwick's brewery in Kilkenny as a trainee mechanic, before later beoming transport supervisor.


== Honours ==


=== Player ===
Bennettsbridge
Kilkenny Senior Hurling Championship (4): 1964, 1966, 1967, 1971
Kilkenny
All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship (9): 1963, 1967, 1969, 1972, 1974, 1975, 1979, 1982, 1983
Leinster Senior Hurling Championship (14): 1963, 1964, 1966, 1967, 1969, 1971, 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1978, 1979, 1982, 1983
National Hurling League (3): 1975-76, 1981-82, 1982-83
Oireachtas Tournament (1): 1966, 1967, 1969, 1984
All-Ireland Minor Hurling Championship (1): 1962
Leinster Minor Hurling Championship (1): 1962
Leinster
Railway Cup (4): 1973, 1974, 1975, 1979


=== Management ===
Kilkenny
All-Ireland Senior Hurling Championship (2): 2002, 2003
Leinster Senior Hurling Championship (2): 2002, 2003
National Hurling League (2): 2002, 2003
Leinster Intermediate Hurling Championship (4): 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000
All-Ireland Junior Hurling Championship (1): 1995
Leinster Junior Hurling Championship (5): 1991, 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996
Leinster Vocational Schools Senior Hurling Championship (1): 1997


=== Individual ===
Honours
The 125 greatest stars of the GAA: No. 16
Supreme All-Stars Team: Goalkeeper
Texaco Hurler of the Year (1): 1982
All-Star (7): 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976, 1982, 1983
GAA Hall of Fame Inductee: 2013
In May 2020, the Irish Independent named Skehan at number fifteen in its "Top 20 hurlers in Ireland over the past 50 years". He was the only goalkeeper included.


== References ==

Atso Almila (born 13 June 1953, in Helsinki) is a Finnish orchestral conductor, music director, composer, trombonist and teacher.
He has worked with most Finnish orchestras as a guest conductor or otherwise. Though he primarily operates in Finland he also works heavily in Sweden and Estonia. His composition style may be deemed neo-classical though he has been seen to be sometimes chromatic and expressive (as in his 1985 Flute Concerto and his 1989 Violin Concerto). His works show appreciation for the individual instrument and for natural musicianship.
He studied the trombone and orchestral conducting at the Sibelius Academy of Helsinki under Jorma Panula graduating in orchestral conducting in 1979. He would later work in the institution as the senior assistant in conducting between 1991 and 2002 and a lecturer in orchestral conducting since 2002. He has been the conductor of several choirs including the Radio Symphony Choir (1975–1976), Sibelius Academy chamber choir Cantemus (1979–1984) and the Akateeminen Laulu choir (1991–1995). He has also served as the conductor of the Tampere Philharmonic Orchestra (1987–1989) and the Joensuu Municipal Orchestra between 1993 and 2000 (of which he also been the artistic chief). He was the music director and the artistic director of the Kuopio Symphony Orchestra between 1995 and 2000 after which he became the Principal Guest Conductor of the Seinäjoki City Orchestra where he has been since. He was also the musical director of the National Theatre of Finland between 1982 and 1995 and has been the conductor of the Finnish National Opera (1980–1987 and 1989–1995). At the FNO he has conducted Einojuhani Rautavaara's Vincent, Markus Fagerudd's Gaia, Vajda's Mario and the Magician and Igor Stravinsky's The Nightingale. In 1982 he won the Norrköping Nordic Conducting Competition along with Jukka-Pekka Saraste.
His compositions include four operas: Kolmekymmentä hopearahaa (Thirty Pieces of Silver) in 1988, Ameriikka (America) in 1992, Isontaloon Antti (Antti Isotalo) in 2000, and Pohjanmaan kautta (Bottoms Up!) in 2002. They are usually based around folk plots and often incorporate folk music - though they are not folk opera due to the presence of musical development and structural spans. His harmonies are reminiscent of Sergei Prokofiev and Les Six - with the influence of Italian melody in his last two opera. The plot of Kolmekymmentä hopearahaa studies the relationship between a revivalist minister and those around him (both lay and clergy) and is based upon a play by Heikki Ylikangas. Ameriikka is a study of love and long-distance relationships: a miner goes to America leaving his fiancée behind - her imagination leads her to jealousy and she decides to pursue him across the Atlantic Ocean. Isontaloon Antti follows a recruiting Jägare who, after returning from training in Germany, is pursued by the police for this allegiance. The libretti of both Ameriikka and Isontaloon Antti's were written by Antti Tuuri. Pohjanmaan kautta, with a libretto by Tiina Puumalainen, tells a story of Prohibition on the Ostrobothnian plains. All productions have premiered in Ilmajoki and are usually performed outdoors.
His music is characterised as being wistful and restless, featuring playful melodies and brusque ostinatos. They often emphasise brass instruments, and include two symphonies including one for brass quintet and orchestra (notable for its aleatoric counterpoint), concerti (double bass in 1979, flute in 1985, tuba in 1986, violin in 1989 and trombone in 1994) and chamber music (importantly, a Wind Quartet and a String Quintet, both of 1993; also Taikalamppu for brass quartet, Dedications, Memories (1985) for brass quintet, the Wind Nonet (1985) and the Brass Quintet (1991)). His wind band work is traditional and tonal which may be described as Gebrauchsmusik and he sometimes borrows from popular music. These works include Concert March (1979), Allegro agitato (1986) and Fanfare (1987), the larger-scale Concerto for Two Clarinets and Wind Band (1980) and Visions from the North (1997). This work includes some for theatre (roughly 40 plays), television and film. His screen work includes Da Capo in 1985 and Kotia päin in 1989.
For many years he has been teaching in Sibelius Academy. Almost all conducting students who have studied there in 1980-s, 1990-s and in 21st century have also studied with him. He also has many masterclasses, the annual one is in August in Seinäjoki.


== Selected discography ==
Concertos for Tuba, French Horn and Trombone (Oulu symphony Orchestra 1996)
Contrabasso concertante - Finalndia (Jorma Katrama and Kuopio Symphony 1998)
Sibelius Rarities (Kuopio Symphony 1999 - Finlandia)
Piazzolla - Finlandia (Mika Vayrynen and Kuopio Symphony 2000)


== References ==

Northern Michigan University profile Archived 2006-10-17 at the Wayback Machine. Retrieved 21 February 2005.
Profile at the Lieksa Brass Week 2005 website. Retrieved 21 February 2005.
Kitterick, Padraig. Profile of Atso Almila - National Youth Orchestra of Ireland website. Retrieved 21 February 2005.
Korhonen, Kimmo (2003). Inventing Finnish Music - Contemporary Composers from Medieval to Modern (translated by Jaakko Mäntyjärvi). Finnish Music Information Centre.

Mark Edward Stevens (born 16 March 1959) is a former English cricketer.  Stevens was a right-handed batsman who played primarily as a wicketkeeper.
Stevens made his Minor Counties Championship debut for Devon in 1981 against the Somerset Second XI.  From 1981 to 1982, he represented Devon in 9 Minor Counties Championship matches.  In 1983, he joined Berkshire, making his Minor Counties Championship debut for the county in 1983 against Shropshire.  From 1983 to 1993, he represented the county in 58 Minor Counties Championship matches, the last of which came in the 1993 Championship when Berkshire played Wales Minor Counties. Stevens also played in the MCCA Knockout Trophy for Berkshire.  His debut in that competition came in 1986 when Berkshire played Buckinghamshire.  From 1986 to 1993, he represented the county in 11 Trophy matches, the last of which came when Berkshire played Hertfordshire in the 1993 MCCA Knockout Trophy.
Additionally, he also played List-A matches for Berkshire.  His List-A debut for the county came against Gloucestershire in the 1986 NatWest Trophy.  From 1986 to 1991, he represented the county in 5 matches, with his final List-A match coming when Berkshire played Hampshire in the 1991 NatWest Trophy at Sonning Lane, Reading. In his 5 matches, he scored 34 runs at a batting average of 17.00, with a high score of 23.  Behind the stumps he took 2 catches and made a single stumping.


== References ==


== External links ==
Mark Stevens at Cricinfo
Mark Stevens at CricketArchive

The Setzer streamliner dragster is an unusual streamliner dragster built in 1972.
Built at John Buttera's shop, and conceived by Buttera and body man Louie Teckenoff, the car was an unusual magnesium monocoque (rather than the more commonplace tube chassis). The body panels were 0.050 in (1.3 mm)-thick sheet, fastened with adhesives and over 5,000 rivets; the inner and outer skins were separated by high-density foam. It had full-enclosed front wheels, cockpit, and engine, with a winglet ahead of the front axle and a low wing, just above the rollbar, in back. The wings were designed and positioned by Nye Frank.
The car took six months to build. It was sold to Barry Setzer for US$15,000 in 1972.
In test runs at OCIR, driver Pat Foster experienced a sudden, unexpected wheelstand. Buttera tried to solve the problem, some reporting the engine was moved, and other changes made; nevertheless, the car still had a tendency to what would now be called "blowover".
The car is now on display at the Don Garlits Museum of Drag Racing in Ocala, Florida.


== Notes ==


== Sources ==
Taylor, Thom. "Beauty Beyond the Twilight Zone" in Hot Rod, April 2017, pp. 30–43.

Sir John Dykes Bower  (13 August 1905 – 29 May 1981) was an English cathedral organist who served in Truro Cathedral, Durham Cathedral and St Paul's Cathedral.


== Background ==
Bower was born in Gloucester into a musical family, a descendant of the hymn writer John Bacchus Dykes. He was one of four brothers, including Stephen Dykes Bower, who became a famous church architect.
He was educated at Cheltenham College and studied organ under Sir Herbert Brewer. He was an organ scholar at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, where he was awarded the John Stewart Rannoch scholarship in sacred music.


== Church musician ==
Bower was the organist and choirmaster at  St Paul's Cathedral for more than 30 years, from 1936 to his retirement in 1968. Following his death in 1981, he was eulogised as "an austere perfectionist with a strong feeling for the big occasion." Major services he played included the Thanksgiving service after the Second World War and at the state funeral for Sir Winston Churchill.
He was also a sub-conductor at the coronations of both King George VI and Queen Elizabeth II. In 1953, he toured North America with the St Paul's choir and conducted a concert at the White House before President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
From 1936 to 1969, Bower also served as organ professor at the Royal College of Music and was associate director of the Royal School of Church Music.
Together with G. H. Knight, he co-edited the "revised edition" of Hymns Ancient and Modern, which was published in 1950.

Hymn tune 'Lanteglos' to the hymn 'Lord that descendest, Holy Child' (Hymns Ancient & Modern New Standard #398)


== Career ==
He was organist of:

Truro Cathedral, 1926–1929
New College, Oxford, 1929–1933
Durham Cathedral, 1933–1936
St Paul's Cathedral, 1936–1968


== References ==

The 1923 King Tornado football team represented King College—now known as King University as an independent during the 1923 college football season. Led by first head coach  A. C. Adams, the Tornado compiled a record of 8–0–1. The team's captain was Max Osburn. King played home games at Tenneva Field in Bristol, Virginia.
The Tornado scored 507 points during the first eight games of the season before being shut out in the season finale, a scoreless tie with Carson–Newman.


== Schedule ==


== References ==

Maxime Tarasconi (born 6 April 1990) is a French professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Championnat National 3 side AS Gémenos.


== Career ==
Tarasconi signed his first professional contract with Ligue 2 side FC Istres in 2011, making his league debut on 5 August that year as a substitute in the 2–1 victory against RC Lens. He went on to play 32 times over two seasons for Istres, most often as a substitute. At the end of his contract he was released. He found his next club, Louhans-Cuiseaux FC, through the coach of the unemployed Professional footballers union, although he didn't join immediately, looking at options abroad until late January 2014.
Leaving Louhans-Cuiseaux after just one season he moved from one amateur French club to another. First to US Granville in July 2014, then to SC Toulon in February 2016, US Le Pontet in August 2016 and AS Gémenos in July 2017.


== References ==


== External links ==
Maxime Tarasconi – French league stats at LFP – also available in French (archived)
Maxime Tarasconi profile at foot-national.com
Maxime Tarasconi at Soccerway

The 1903 Moree state by-election was held on 12 December 1903 to elect the member for Moree in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly, following the resignation of Labour Party MP William Webster, who contested the seat of Gwydir at the 1903 federal election.
Labour selected Matthew Boland as its candidate, but he withdrew because he felt "too nervous". Leonard Court was subsequently chosen as Boland's replacement, but he was not officially nominated in time, preventing Labour from contesting the seat.
Percy Stirton won the by-election for the Liberal Reform Party with 61% of the vote, defeating Independent Liberal candidate Alfredo Zlotkowski. This was the last contest for Moree, with the seat abolished in 1904 and largely replaced by a recreated state seat of Gwydir following the outcome of the 1903 New South Wales referendum that reduced the number of Legislative Assembly members.


== Key dates ==
18 November 1903 – William Webster resigns
19 November 1903 – Writ of election issued by the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly
30 November 1903 – Matthew Boland withdraws as Labour candidate
1 December 1903 – Candidate nominations
12 December 1903 – Polling day
16 December 1903 – Federal election
23 December 1903 – Return of writ


== Result ==


== See also ==
Electoral results for the district of Moree
List of New South Wales state by-elections


== Notes ==


== References ==

Ritsumeikan Uji Junior and Senior High School (立命館宇治中学校・高等学校) (also known as Rits Uji) is a private school located in the city of Uji, Kyoto Prefecture, Japan, south of Kyoto City. The high school opened in 1994 and the middle school opened in 2003. It is currently one of four junior and senior high schools affiliated with Ritsumeikan University.  The Ritsumeikan family of schools also includes Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University, located in Beppu, and Ritsumeikan Primary School, located in north Kyoto.
The school is noted for its English language education programs and athletic achievement.  The school introduced English immersion education in 2000, and  in 2002, was designated a Super English Language (SEL) high school by the Japanese government. In 2009, the school was authorized by the IBO as the first Article 1 (government approved) Japanese institution in the Kansai region to provide the IB Diploma Program (IBDP). In 2014, the school was selected as a Super Global High School by the Japanese government, and in 2019 a World-Wide Learning (WWL) Hub School, both of which earned the school sizable supplementary grants.
In athletics, the school has a rich history of success in women's Ekiden relays, including multiple national championships.  It also has had national level success in men's soccer, American football, baton twirling, baseball, and other sports.


== Overview ==


== Junior high school ==
The junior high school consists of five home rooms per grade year and has between 160 and 170 students per grade.  Like the high school, the junior high school is known for its English language achievement and international-friendly environment. Roughly a quarter of all students have experience studying abroad and/or have English as a native language. The school offers four levels of English A1, A2, A3, and Regular.  Most of the A1 students take part in the International Preparatory Stream (IPS), which prepares students to matriculate to the school's English language IBDP course.
Junior high school students are expected to take part in one of the school's many sports and culture clubs so as to experience a full school life of study and club.  While the majority of students are Japanese, the school welcomes students with Japanese as a second language and offers JSL classes to students who require such support.


== High school ==

The high school was the second affiliated high school established within the Ritsumeikan Academy. In each grade, there are approximately 350 to 360 students.  Students select one of three courses, the Integrated Global Course (IG), the Immersion Course (IM), or the International Baccalaureate Course (IB).


=== IG Course ===
The IG or Integrated Global is the largest course in the school.  The language of instruction is Japanese.  All students also take English classes according to their level, and French, German, and Chinese language classes are also available.  IG students select either the Science Career Stream or the Global Career Stream.
The majority of students in the IG Course matriculate to one of the Ritsumeikan University campuses, though a minority matriculate to other schools in Japan.  Therefore, the IG Course is a primarily a feeder course for Ritsumeikan University and Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University.


=== IM Course ===
The IM course offers blended English and Japanese instruction and is designed for students who wish to become fluent in English in high school.  First year coursework is in both languages, and from midway through their first year students go abroad to study for a whole academic year either in either Canada, Australia, or New Zealand.  For their senior year, the bulk of classes are in English. Many IM students matriculate at Ritsumeikan University, while others chose schools in the Tokyo region.  A small number of students from the IM Course elect to study overseas for university. Each year the 2nd year students from the IM course go to Cambodia for a study trip.


=== IB Course ===
Authorized by the IBO in 2009, the IB course has around 25 to 30 students per grade.  All classes are taught in English by native-level speakers with the exception of Japanese language and literature classes.  First-year classes prepare students for the challenge of the IB Diploma, and in the second and third year students study IB Diploma classes of their choice.  The IB Course offers students the opportunity to earn a dual degree: the universally recognized IB Diploma as well as a standard Japanese high school diploma. Around half of the students matriculate internally from the junior high school, and the other half enter from other Japanese junior high schools or schools overseas.
The majority of students in the IB course typically choose to study at universities other than Ritsumeikan University.  Historically, approximately half of the graduates have gone to study overseas and half have remained in Japan.  The IB Course regularly achieves marks well above the world norm, with multiple students earning outstanding scores of over 40 (out of 45) in the IBDP. In 2012, one student achieved a rare perfect 45.
IB Diploma subjects include:

Group 5: Japanese A Literature SL/HL, English Literature SL/HL, English Language and Literature SL/HL
Group 4: Japanese B SL/HL, English B SL/HL
Group 3: Global Issues SL/HL, Business SL/HL, Economics SL/HL
Group 2: Physics SL/HL, Chemistry SL/HL, Biology SL/HL
Group 1: Mathematics SL/HL
Group 0: Art SL/HL


=== High School Dorm-Firits House ===
High school students can choose to live in the school's dormitory, known as Firits House.  The dormitory is fully equipped for student living and is located 20 minutes from the school by bus in the town of Uji. The dormitory has the capacity to house 380 students.  Many of the students in the dormitory are either in athletics or the IB Course, as students come from around the country and the world for the school's outstanding offerings in these areas.


== School Events ==


=== Sports Festival（体育祭） ===
The school holds a traditional Japanese sports festivals every May.  The entire school population participates in either the junior high or high school festival, which this is one of the most exciting and memorable events of the school year.


=== Kofusai(興風祭) ===
The school holds a culture festival, known as Kofusai every September over several days.  This festival showcases student creativity in many areas such as song and dance, calligraphy, and dramatic performance.  All students decorate their home room according to a theme they choose, and Kofusai is well attended by parents and friends.


=== Choir Competition ===
The choir competition is held by junior high school students in November, and features all classes competing against each other the school auditorium.  Students prepare for weeks for this big event, which is well attended by parents.


== Academic Achievements ==


=== Matriculation ===
As noted above, the majority of students from Ritsumeikan Uji matriculate at either Ritsumeikan University or Ritsumeikan Asia Pacific University, while a healthy minority attend other Japanese private, public, and national universities, as well American, British, Canadian, Australian and other overseas universities.  The school has placed students at leading universities and colleges around the world including Brown University, Dartmouth College, Amherst College, Imperial College London, King's College London, Leiden University, the University of Melbourne, the University of British Columbia, the University of Toronto, Waseda University, Sophia University, Osaka University, and many others.


== School Clubs ==


=== High school ===
Culture Clubs:

Art and Literature
Art
Brass Band
Broadcasting
Calligraphy
Drama
Flower Arrangement
International Challenge Club (ICC)
Photography
Natural Science/Robotics
Tea Ceremony
Athletic Clubs:

American Football
Baseball
Basketball (Boys'/Girls')
Badminton (Boys'/Girls')
Baton Twirling
Cheerleading
Dance
Handball
Japanese Swordsmanship
Judo
Rugby
Soccer
Ski
Swimming
Tennis (Boys'/Girls')
Track and Field
Volleyball
Women's Lacrosse


== References ==


== External links ==
Official school page
IBO page

Central Railway or Central Railroad can refer to the following:


== Africa ==
Central East African Railways, in Malawi
Central South African Railways, in South Africa


== Asia ==
Bombay, Baroda and Central India Railway, in India
Central Asian Railway, also called the Trans-Caspian Railway, in Russia
Central China Railway (華中鐵道股份有限公司, Huázhōng Tiědào Gǔfèn Yǒuxiàn Gōngsī), in east-central China
Central Japan Railway Company (東海旅客鉄道株式会社, Tōkai Ryokaku Tetsudō Kabushiki-gaisha), in Chūbu (Nagoya) region, Japan
Central Plains Metropolitan Region intercity railway, around Zhengzhou, China
Central Railway (India), now the Indian Railways' Central Railway zone
Central Railway Building, headquarters of the Bangladesh Railway, in India
Central Salsette Tramway, also called the Salsette–Trombay Railway, in Mumbai, India
Chennai Central–Bangalore City line, in India
North Central Railway College, a school in Uttar Pradesh, India
Sha Tin to Central Link, a rapid transit project in Hong Kong


== Europe ==


=== United Kingdom ===
Anglesey Central Railway in Wales
Belfast Central Railway, in Belfast, Northern Ireland
Central London Railway, an underground railway in London, England
Central Railway (UK), a proposed freight line
Central railway station (London), in east London
Central Trains, a train operating company
Central Wales Extension Railway, in Wales
Derry Central Railway, in County Londonderry, Northern Ireland
East Fife Central Railway in Scotland
Forest of Dean Central Railway, in Gloucestershire, England
Glasgow Central Railway, in Scotland
Great Central Railway
Great Central Railway, in England
Great Central Railway (heritage railway), in Leicestershire, England
Great Central Railway (Nottingham), in Nottinghamshire, England
Great Central Main Line, the historical route these companies follow(ed)
Great Western and Great Central Joint Railway, in south east England
Hull and Barnsley and Great Central Joint Railway, also called the Gowdall and Braithwell Railway, in England
Isle of Wight Central Railway, in England
Scottish Central Railway, in Scotland
Waterford & Central Ireland Railway, in Northern Ireland


== Elsewhere ==
Central Railway Metro station, in Sofia, Bulgaria
Central Swabian Railway (Mittelschwabenbahn), in Bavaria, Germaqny
Grand Crimean Central Railway, in Crimea, Russia
Swiss Central Railway (Schweizerische Centralbahn), in Switzerland
Württemberg Central Railway (Zentralbahn or Centralbahn), in Baden-Württemberg, Germany
Zentralbahn, Switzerland


== North America ==


=== Canada ===
Algoma Central Railway, in Ontario
Canada Central Railway, in Ontario
Cape Breton and Central Nova Scotia Railway, in Nova Scotia
Central Maine and Quebec Railway, in Quebec and the Northeastern United States
Central Manitoba Railway, in the Manitoba
Central Ontario Railway, in Ontario
Huron Central Railway, in Ontario
Maine Central Railroad Company, in New Brunswick, Quebec, and the Northeastern United States
Michigan Central Railroad, in Ontario and the Northern United States
New York Central Railroad, in Ontario and the Northern United States
Nipissing Central Railway, in Ontario
Ottawa Central Railway, in Ontario
Prairie Dog Central Railway, near Winnipeg, Manitoba
Quebec Central Railway, in Quebec
Waterloo Central Railway, in Ontario


=== Mexico ===
Mexican Central Railway (Ferrocarril Central Mexicano)


=== United States ===


==== Alabama ====
Alabama Central Railroad
Central of Georgia Railway
Illinois Central Railroad
Illinois Central Gulf Railroad


==== Alaska ====
Alaska Central Railroad


==== Arizona ====
Arizona Central Railroad


==== Arkansas ====
Illinois Central Railroad
Illinois Central Gulf Railroad


==== California ====
California Central Railway
Central California Traction Company
Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad
Central Pacific Railroad


==== Colorado ====
Argentine Central Railway
Colorado Central Railroad


==== Connecticut ====
Central New England Railway
Central Vermont Railway
New England Central Railroad


==== Delaware ====
Delmarva Central Railroad


==== Florida ====
Florida Central and Peninsular Railroad
Florida Central Railroad (1868–1882)
Florida Central Railroad (1907–1914)
Florida Central Railroad (current)
South Central Florida Railroad Florida


==== Georgia ====
Central of Georgia Railway
Georgia Central Railway


==== Illinois ====
American Central Railway
Central Illinois Railroad
Chicago Central and Pacific Railroad
Illinois Central Railroad
Illinois Central Gulf Railroad
Lee County Central Electric Railway
Michigan Central Railroad
New York Central Railroad
Prairie Central Railway


==== Indiana ====
Central Indiana and Western Railroad
Central Railroad of Indiana
Central Railroad of Indianapolis
Illinois Central Railroad
Illinois Central Gulf Railroad
Indiana Central Railway
Michigan Central Railroad
New York Central Railroad


==== Iowa ====
Central Iowa Railway Iowa
Chicago Central and Pacific Railroad
Illinois Central Railroad
Illinois Central Gulf Railroad


==== Kansas ====
Central Branch Union Pacific Railroad
Central Kansas Railway


==== Kentucky ====
Illinois Central Railroad
Illinois Central Gulf Railroad


==== Louisiana ====
Illinois Central Railroad
Illinois Central Gulf Railroad


==== Maine ====
Central Maine and Quebec Railway
Maine Central Railroad Company


==== Maryland ====
Delmarva Central Railroad
Maryland Central Railroad
Northern Central Railway
Philadelphia and Baltimore Central Railroad
West Virginia Central and Pittsburg Railway


==== Massachusetts ====
Central Massachusetts Railroad
Central New England Railway
Central Vermont Railway
New England Central Railroad
New York Central Railroad


==== Michigan ====
Central Michigan Railway
Great Lakes Central Railroad
Illinois Central Railroad
Michigan Central Railroad
New York Central Railroad


==== Mississippi ====
Alabama Central Railroad
Illinois Central Railroad
Illinois Central Gulf Railroad
Mississippi Central Railroad (1852-1874)
Mississippi Central Railroad (1904-1967)


==== Missouri ====
Central Midland Railway
Illinois Central Railroad
Illinois Central Gulf Railroad


==== Montana ====
Central Montana Rail, Inc.
Montana Central Railway


==== Nebraska ====
Nebraska Central Railroad


==== Nevada ====
Central Pacific Railroad
Nevada Central Railroad


==== New Hampshire ====
Central Vermont Railway
Maine Central Railroad Company


==== New Jersey ====
Central Railroad of New Jersey, also called the Jersey Central Railroad
Jersey Central Traction Company
New York Central Railroad


==== New York ====
Central Branch (Long Island Rail Road)
Central City Railway, in Syracuse
Central New England Railway
Central New York Railroad
Central Vermont Railway
New York Central Railroad
Rockland Central Railroad


==== Ohio ====
Central Ohio Railroad
Central Railroad of Indiana
New York Central Railroad
Ohio Central Railroad (1988)
Ohio Central Railroad System
Toledo and Ohio Central Railway


==== Oklahoma ====
Enid Central Railway
North Central Oklahoma Railway
Oklahoma Central Railway (1905-1914)
Oklahoma Central Railroad (1914–1942)


==== Oregon ====
Central Oregon and Pacific Railroad
Columbia River and Oregon Central Railroad
Oregon Central Rail Road


==== Pennsylvania ====
Central New York Railroad
Central Railroad of Pennsylvania
Central Railroad of Pennsylvania (1891–1918)
Central Railroad of New Jersey, also called the Jersey Central Railroad
Maryland Central Railroad
New York Central Railroad
Northern Central Railway
Ohio Central Railroad System
Philadelphia and Baltimore Central Railroad


==== Tennessee ====
Central of Tennessee Railway and Navigation Company
Illinois Central Railroad
Illinois Central Gulf Railroad
Mississippi Central Railroad (1852-1874)
Tennessee Central Railway


==== Texas ====
Central Texas and Colorado River Railway
Houston and Texas Central Railway
Texas Central Railway


==== Utah ====
Central Pacific Railroad
Utah Central Railroad (1869–1881)
Utah Central Railway (1992), in the Ogden area


==== Vermont ====
Central Maine and Quebec Railway
Central Vermont Railway
Maine Central Railroad Company
New England Central Railroad


==== Virginia ====
Delmarva Central Railroad
Virginia Central Railroad
Virginia Central Railway


==== Washington ====
Central Washington Railroad


==== West Virginia ====
New York Central Railroad
West Virginia Central and Pittsburg Railway


==== Wisconsin ====
Wisconsin Central Railroad (1871–1899)
Wisconsin Central Railway (1897–1954)
Wisconsin Central Railroad (1954–1961)


==== Wyoming ====
Colorado Central Railroad
Wyoming Central Railway


== Oceania ==
Central Australia Railway, in Australia
Central Coast & Newcastle Line, a passenger route in New South Wales, Australia
Central Highlands Tourist Railway, in Victoria, Australia
Central Western railway line, Queensland, in Queensland, Australia
Otago Central Railway, on the South Island of New Zealand


== South America ==
Buenos Aires Central Railway (Ferrocarril Central Buenos Aires), in Argentina
Central Argentine Railway, in Argentina
Central Chubut Railway, in Argentina
Central Entre Ríos Railway, in Entre Ríos Province, Argentina
Central Northern Railway, in Argentina
Central Uruguay Railway, in Uruguay
Córdoba Central Railway, in Argentina
Estrada de Ferro Central do Brasil (Central Railway of Brazil), in Brazil
Ferrocarril Central Andino (Andean Central Railway), in Peru
Nuevo Central Argentino, a train operating company in Argentina


== See also ==
Central Railway Station (disambiguation)
Central Line (disambiguation)
Great Central Railway (disambiguation)
Grand Central (disambiguation)

Glenn Belverio (born 1966) is an American journalist and editor based in New York, New York.
In the 1990s, Belverio was a filmmaker and performance artist, whose 1993 collaboration with best-selling author Camille Paglia on the short film Glennda and Camille Do Downtown, gained international attention. The film played at the Sundance Film Festival and won first prize for best short documentary at the Chicago Underground Film Festival.
In this and other films of the 1990s, Belverio appeared on screen in the drag persona of Glennda Orgasm. Laurence Senelick, writing about female impersonation in "The Cambridge Guide to Theater", said that Belverio's performances as Glennda represented a radical edge in gay culture at the time, "as the politically correct gay community turned its back on drag."  Through these performances, Belverio was thought to be engaging in the kind of political and cultural critique that Paglia termed "drag queen feminism".
In 1996 a retrospective of Belverio's film and video work was held at Institute of Contemporary Arts in London, and marked the end of his career as a filmmaker.  Shortly thereafter, his articles on the New York fashion scene began appearing in various publications such as Dutch, Zoo, i-D, Index, and Glue. Belverio has been a guest-editor and writer for the Asian culture and fashion magazine WestEast and worked between China and New York from 2002 to 2004. He won the award for editorial excellence from the Society of Publishers for his work on WestEast's "POP" and "SEX" issues in 2003.
His book "Confessions from the Velvet Ropes: The Glamorous, Grueling Life of Thomas Onorato, New York's Top Club Doorman" was published by St. Martin's Press in summer 2006. Rob Sheffield of Rolling Stone wrote: "Confessions from the Velvet Ropes is like a surreal mash-up of Party Girl and Apocalypse Now, or Please Kill Me and Night of the Living Dead. It's packed with absurdly juicy war stories from the velvet goldmine of New York clubland, down and dirty yet screamingly funny tales from the door-bitch jungle, full of crazed revelers, wasted starlets, fashion pimps, and sex behind the ice machine. Brilliant stuff."
Belverio was a guest on ABC News Now in December 2006 to discuss his book. Currently, he is a regular contributor to Diane Pernet's blog "A Shaded View on Fashion".


== Books ==
Confessions from the Velvet Ropes: The Glamorous, Grueling Life of Thomas Onorato, New York's Top Club Doorman (2006) ISBN 0-312-35459-2
Vamps and Tramps by Camille Paglia (1994) (transcript of Glennda and Camille Do Downtown)
Anti-Gay by Mark Simpson (1996) (transcript of A Case for the Closet, co-written by Belverio and Bruce LaBruce)


== External links ==
Official website for Confessions from the Velvet Ropes Archived 2006-11-08 at the Wayback Machine
Feature on Daniel Johnston by Glenn Belverio
Glenn Belverio's interview with '60s supermodel Veruschka
Glenn Belverio's coverage of 080 Barcelona Fashion Spring/Summer 2011
Glenn Belverio's review of New York Fashion Week in The Japan Times Archived 2005-12-20 at the Wayback Machine
Belverio interviews fashion designer Miguel Adrover for INDEX Magazine Archived 2005-12-23 at the Wayback Machine
Belverio and Camille Paglia on Jacqueline Susann in Salon Magazine Archived 2006-05-28 at the Wayback Machine
Paco's Return by Glenn Belverio; article in The Robb Report on Paco Rabanne Archived 2005-02-27 at the Wayback Machine
Photo essay on Nashville by Glenn Belverio
Belverio on Bollywood superstar Hrithik Roshan

The heart of Frédéric Chopin is preserved in a pillar of Holy Cross Church in Warsaw. After Chopin died in Paris on 17 October 1849 at the age of 39, his heart was removed during an autopsy performed by the physician Jean Cruveilhier. While his body was buried at Père Lachaise Cemetery, the heart was preserved in alcohol (probably cognac) and later taken to Poland by his sister Ludwika Jędrzejewicz in accordance with his wishes.
The heart was placed in the Holy Cross Church and immured in a pillar in 1879. During the Warsaw Uprising it was removed by German authorities but returned after the war. It has been the subject of scientific interest concerning Chopin’s cause of death, traditionally attributed to tuberculosis; a visual inspection in 2014 supported this diagnosis.


== Death and removal of heart ==

Composer Frédéric Chopin suffered from poor health throughout his life, including respiratory problems, chronic diarrhea, and significant weight loss. As an adult, he weighed less than 45 kilograms (99 lb). In 1849, anticipating his death, Chopin made arrangements for his funeral. He had a fear of being buried alive (taphophobia) and asked his sister, Ludwika Jędrzejewicz, to remove his heart and transport it to Warsaw for burial at a local church.
Chopin died in Paris on 17 October 1849. The day before his death, Chopin requested that his physician, Jean Cruveilhier, perform an autopsy. During the procedure, Cruveilhier removed Chopin's heart and submerged it in alcohol, probably cognac. His body was at Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris, while his heart was placed in a hermetically sealed crystal jar. In early 1850, his sister transported the heart to Poland, where it would eventually be treated as an exceptional artefact within the culture of Poland, afforded the respect usually reserved for saintly relics.


== Smuggling the heart into Poland ==
In early January 1850, Chopin's eldest sister, Ludwika Jędrzejewicz, returned from France by rail to Poland with her daughter and her brother's heart. She carried the heart with her, concealing its container underneath her cloak or skirt as she smuggled it through a customs inspection at the Austrian border and past Russian border agents into Poland. Soviet music historian Igor Boelza wrote about her journey, explaining that Jędrzejewicz had hidden "a small oak trunk under her dress. In it was a casket made of ebony wood, containing a precious vessel holding Chopin's heart".  

Chopin's heart arrived in Warsaw and was kept by his sister and mother, resting on top of a dresser at the home of Jędrzejewicz and the Kalasanty family. Prior to Jędrzejewicz's death in 1855, she may have arranged for the transfer of the heart to Warsaw's Holy Cross Church. There was opposition within the church's clergy to having the heart in the upper part of the church, as Chopin was not a saint. Instead, the heart was tucked away in the church's catacombs and lay there undisturbed and unlabeled for over two decades. In 1878, journalist Adam Pług found the heart in a box and wrote about his discovery in a Warsaw journal.
The clergy of the church were persuaded to move the heart in part due to the fact that the heart of novelist Klementyna Hoffmanowa was being kept in the Wawel Cathedral. With the support of apostolic administrator Antoni Ksawery Sotkiewicz, the heart was moved to the upper part of the church on 1 March 1879 and immured in the first pillar on the left, facing towards the church's great nave. The transfer of the heart took place in secret due to fears that Tsarist authorities would seize it. Composer Władysław Żeleński was one of the organizers of the transfer ceremony, which was attended by around a dozen people.
On 29 February 1880, Chopin's heart was consecrated. A tablet carved from Carrara marble by sculptor Leonard Marconi and dedicated to the memory of Chopin was installed on the pillar a week later. A biblical verse from Matthew 6:21 was inscribed onto one of the plaques: "For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also."
For decades, the heart was the sole public monument in Warsaw honoring Chopin that the Tsarist authorities allowed. It drew "covert displays of nationalist fervor". Once Poland achieved independence in 1918, it became an open shrine. In 1926, Archbishop Antoni Szlagowski said of Chopin: "All our past sings in him, all our slavery cries in him, the beating heart of the nation, the great king of sorrows."


== Nazi possession and return ==
After the German Army captured Warsaw in 1939, performances of Chopin's music were banned, the Fryderyk Chopin Institute was shuttered, and the Frédéric Chopin Monument in Łazienki Park was destroyed. During the 1944 Warsaw Uprising, the Holy Cross Church was damaged and captured by the Nazis. A German priest by the name of Schulze requested that the occupying forces be allowed to take possession of Chopin's heart for safekeeping. It was taken by SS officer Heinz Reinefarth and then given to SS commander Erich von dem Bach-Zelewski, who kept it at his headquarters as part of his collection of curios.
As the occupation was drawing to a close, Bach-Zelewski, known for his brutal suppression of the uprising, returned the heart. Polish journalist Andrzej Pettyn, who wrote a definitive account of Chopin's heart, wrote that Bach-Zelewski's gesture "aimed at reducing his own fault and presenting himself to the world in a more favorable light." Bach-Zelewski ordered that Chopin's heart be transferred to the  auxiliary bishop of Warsaw Antoni Szlagowski. German officials arranged for a film crew to document the transfer of the heart to Szlagowski as a part of Nazi propaganda. At the moment the urn containing the heart was to be handed over, the spotlights they were using malfunctioned, an event for which Szlagowski said to his colleagues: "Thank the Lord. This time these barbarians will not succeed in their propaganda ploy." Szlagowski had the heart transferred to St. Hedwig Church in Milanówek, escorted by a contingent of German soldiers.


== Milanówek and return to Warsaw ==
Upon the arrival of Chopin's heart in Milanówek, it was hidden out of fear that the Germans would try to repossess it. The heart was briefly kept at the house of a professor named Antoniewicz and the apartment of the pianist Maria Findeisen. Thereafter, the heart was kept by Archbishop Szlagowski, atop a piano, in his private chapel until October 1945. A small wooden casket was created to hold the urn. Bronisław Edward Sydow, a member of the board of the Fryderyk Chopin Institute, approached officials from the Provisional Government of National Unity to arrange a ceremonial return of the heart to the Holy Cross Church, which by that time had been mostly restored. The Executive Committee of the National Celebration of the Return of Chopin's Heart to Warsaw was established on 18 September 1945. Sydow asked to check the condition of the relic and examined the heart in Milanówek. The container was opened and Sydow observed:

The urn consisted of an outer box made of oak, smooth, on a dark bylaid, in which there is a second mahogany box polished with marquetry (porte lines) embellished. Recessed in the lid is a silver plate in the form of a heart, with an engraved inscription containing Frederic Chopin's birth and death dates. This box is surrounded by lead plates for protection from moisture. Inside this box is a large crystal jar hermetically sealed, in which, in transparent alcohol, is Chopin's perfectly preserved heart. What is striking is the size of the heart, for a figure of average height it is immeasurably large. Presumably under the influence of heart disease, which primarily contributed to Chopin's early death, in addition to tuberculosis.

On 17 October 1945, the 96th anniversary of Chopin's death, the urn containing his heart was handed over to Leopold Petrzyk in Milanówek in St. Hedwig Church's courtyard. A delegation including pianist Bolesław Woytowicz then transported it by car to Żelazowa Wola, the village where Chopin was born, via a meandering 90-kilometre (56 mi) route taking it through Grodzisk Mazowiecki and Błonie. Crowds lined up along the route, which was adorned with white and red Polish flags. Petrzyk passed the urn along to then-President Bolesław Bierut, who handed it over to Warsaw mayor Stanisław Tołwiński. Following a short concert by pianist Henryk Sztompka, the delegation proceeded to Warsaw. There, Wiktor Grodzicki gave a welcoming speech, saying in part:

This heart first beat 135 years ago, in nearby Żelazowa Wola, and soon began to beat more vividly to the sound of a folk song resounding from peasant huts, and when not many years had passed, the same peasant, Masurian song, amplified a thousandfold by Chopin's heart and genius, was already resounding throughout Europe, and today, 96 years after that heart stopped beating – it resounds throughout the world, bearing witness to the immortal values of our song, our culture and our nation.
After the heart arrived in Warsaw, an afternoon commemorative service at Holy Cross Church was broadcast to the nation, with both the president and the prime minister of Poland in attendance. A eulogy given by musicology professor Hieronim Feicht was described by the newspaper Życie Warszawy as "a profound analysis of the artistic values of Chopin's music". The heart was then returned to the pillar beneath a bust of Chopin created by sculptor Andrzej Pruszyński.


== Secret exhumation and examination ==

Over the years, speculation about the cause of Chopin's death led to calls to examine the heart. In 2008, scholars requested that a DNA analysis of the heart's tissue be conducted to determine if Chopin had died from cystic fibrosis rather than tuberculosis. Cystic fibrosis was unknown during his lifetime and was thought to be a better explanation for his symptoms. The request was refused by the Polish government.
On 14 April 2014, a group of church officials, scientists and representatives from the Fryderyk Chopin Institute disinterred the jar containing Chopin's heart. Researchers examined the heart in secret, though they limited themselves to a visual inspection and did not open the jar. They took photographs, applied sealing wax to the jar, and only revealed that they had made an inspection five months later.
The scientists published their findings in a 2017 article in The American Journal of Medicine. They wrote that the floppy and massively engorged heart appeared to have been removed using the "French method"—pulling it out and severing the aorta and pulmonary artery. The surface of the heart had a frosted appearance, being covered with a "fine, whitish, massive fibrillary coating". Hemorrhagic effusions were observed, as were three small white-glass nodules. The authors of the article concluded that Chopin had pericarditis which was brought on by tuberculosis. A letter to the editor published in the American Journal of Medicine called the diagnosis of tuberculosis into question.

Another inspection of the heart is not expected to take place until 2064.


== See also ==
Heart-burial


== References ==


== Further reading ==

Lagerberg, Steven (2011). Chopin's Heart: The Quest to Identify the Mysterious Illness of the World's Most Beloved Composer. S. Lagerberg. ISBN 978-1-4564-0296-9.

Liberty High School is located in unincorporated Osceola County, Florida, near Kissimmee. It is in the School District of Osceola County, Florida.


== Special programs ==


=== Advancement Via Individual Determination ===
Liberty High School participates in the Advancement Via Individual Determination (AVID) program. This program helps prepare students in the academic middle for post-secondary education.


=== Cambridge Program ===
Liberty High School has discontinued the Cambridge International Examination Program. There was only one cohort of students who finished all 4 years.


== Extracurricular activities ==
Liberty has a comprehensive list of clubs and other extra curricular activities in which students may be engaged, including athletics, Ambassadors, band, drama (which has most of the awards rating superior in many of their shows including one MAINSTAGE "clean house"), digital design, Environmental Club, FFA, Army JROTC, Keyettes, National Honor Society, National Technical Honor Society, Web Design, and Skills USA. LHS also offers many varsity sports: football, golf, cross country, swim & dive, volleyball, wrestling, competitive cheer, basketball, soccer, tennis, baseball, softball and weight lifting.


== References ==


== External links ==

Liberty High School official website

Girl, Interrupted is a 2026 musical based on the 1993 memoir Girl, Interrupted by Susanna Kaysen, about Kaysen's experience in a psychiatric hospital in the 1960s. It was directed by Jo Bonney and written by Martyna Majok, with songs by Aimee Mann.
After production was postponed by the COVID-19 pandemic, Mann released the songs as the 2021 album Queens of the Summer Hotel. Girl, Interrupted opened in New York City on June 4, 2026, staged by the Public Theater.


== Premise ==
Girl, Interrupted is based on the 1993 memoir Girl, Interrupted by Susanna Kaysen, about Kaysen's experience in a psychiatric hospital in the 1960s. The play switches between the perspectives of the older and younger Susanna (played by Juliana Canfield). It focuses on Susanna and four other female patients: Tori, an amphetamine addict; Daisy, an abuse victim with obsessive–compulsive disorder; Polly (Sally Shaw), a schizophrenic burn victim; and Lisa (King Princess), a sexually driven sociopath.


== Production ==
Girl, Interrupted is staged by the off-Broadway theater company the Public Theater. The producer Angelica Zollo had read Girl, Interrupted as a teenager and suggested the adaptation to her mother, the producer Barbara Broccoli. Zollo enlisted the singer-songwriter Aimee Mann to write the songs. The producers approached Martyna Majok to write the script in 2017 after seeing her play Cost of Living. Jo Bonney, who also directed Cost of Living, is the director. Kaysen was not involved in the production. According to Majok, Kaysen "really wanted us to make it our own". When the production was postponed by the COVID-19 pandemic, Mann released the songs as the 2021 album Queens of the Summer Hotel. Mann was not involved in the final production.


== Reception ==
In Vulture, Jackson McHenry wrote that Mann's songs were "excellent at rendering a song as single-perspective interior monologue", but did not serve the musical's dramatic needs. He suggested this was due to Mann's exit from the production after it was delayed by the pandemic, and that "you can feel Majok and Bonney trying to shape the show around material that was frozen too early in the process". He felt that the script became "flatter and broader" towards the end, and concluded that the musical had potential for improvement with rewriting and editing. 
In The New York Times, Helen Shaw wrote that Mann's songs were beautiful but did not suit a narrative. She concluded that it was "a murky production with too much stillness at its center". In The Guardian, Richard Lawson gave Girl, Interrupted three out of five, calling it "a sturdy showcase for Mann's gorgeous, shimmering-sad compositions, but perhaps a less successful conduit for Kaysen's arguments ... This is more 'music with a play attached' than the other way around". 


== References ==

Dinesh Manocha is an Indian-American computer scientist and the Paul Chrisman Iribe Professor of Computer Science at University of Maryland College Park, formerly at University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. His research interests are in scientific computation, robotics, self-driving cars, affective computing, virtual and augmented reality and 3D computer graphics.


== Biography ==
Dinesh Manocha is currently a Paul Chrisman Iribe Professor of Computer Science at the University of Maryland (UMD), College Park. He received his B.Tech. degree in computer science and engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi in 1987. He received his M.S. and Ph.D. in computer science at the University of California, Berkeley in 1990 and 1992, respectively.


== Awards and honors ==
Manocha has received  more than 11 best paper and panel awards  at the ACM SuperComputing, ACM Multimedia, ACM Solid Modeling, Pacific Graphics, IEEE VR, IEEE Visualization, ACM SIGMOD, ACM VRST, CAD, I/ITSEC and Eurographics Conferences. He was selected as an ACM Fellow in 2009 "for contributions to geometric computing and applications to computer graphics, robotics and GPU computing", and is also an AAAS Fellow and AAAI Fellow.


== Personal life ==
Manocha is married to his frequent collaborator and UMD faculty colleague, Ming C. Lin.


== References ==


== External links ==
Dinesh Manocha home page at the Department of Computer Science, University of Maryland
Dinesh Manocha at DBLP Bibliography Server

This is list of members of the Argentine Chamber of Deputies from 10 December 2001 to 9 December 2003.


== Composition ==


=== By province ===


=== By political groups ===
as of 9 December 2003


== Election cycles ==


== List of deputies ==


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
List of deputies in the official website (archived)

Charles Joseph McGettigan (born 7 December 1950, Ballyshannon, County Donegal) is an Irish singer. He lived in 2009 in Drumshanbo, County Leitrim.


== Career ==
Performing with Paul Harrington, he won the Eurovision Song Contest 1994 with the song "Rock 'n' Roll Kids" (words and music by Brendan Graham); the third of a record three consecutive wins by Ireland. Harrington played piano and McGettigan played guitar. He made an appearance as a guest singer at Congratulations, the 50th anniversary concert of Eurovision.
In August 1998, McGettigan's only son, Shane McGettigan, was killed in a construction accident while working in Quincy, Massachusetts.
In 2015, McGettigan wrote "Anybody Got a Shoulder?" for Kat Mahon, which was one of the five songs in Eurosong 2015, the national selection to select the Irish entry for Ireland in the Eurovision Song Contest 2015. The song finished 2nd.
In December 2025, McGettigan announced that he would be returning his trophy to the EBU in protest of Israel's participation in the 2026 contest and in solidarity with Nemo who also returned the trophy days earlier.


== Discography ==


=== Albums ===
Songs of the Night (And Other Stories) (1986)
Charlie McGettigan (1990)
Rock 'N' Roll Kids - The Album (together with Paul Harrington) (1994)
In Your Old Room (1998)
Another Side of Charlie McGettigan (c. 2002)
Stolen Moments (2006)
The Man from 20 (2010)
Some Old Someone (Stockfisch, 2019)


== References ==


== External links ==
Clip on YouTube

Shadow State (stylized as Tom Clancy Shadow State or Tom Clancy: Shadow State) is a techno-thriller novel, written by M. P. Woodward and released on August 20, 2024. It is his first book in the Jack Ryan Jr. series, which is part of the Ryanverse featuring characters created by Tom Clancy.
In the novel, Jack uncovers a conspiracy while working in Vietnam. It debuted at number ten on the New York Times bestseller list.


== Plot summary ==
Jack Ryan Jr. goes to Hong Kong on a "white-side" assignment for Hendley Associates with chief investment officer Howard Brennan to finance their acquisition of GeoTech, a rare earth mining and refining company. He also receives a note from a mysterious woman asking for a meeting. Jack is about to meet her at a night market when he is attacked by a Laotian thug, whom he kills after a struggle. The next day, Jack and Howard reach an agreement with a bank on financing the GeoTech acquisition. They meet GeoTech's CEO Bruce Stephenson and its president of Vietnamese operations David Highsmith in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam before going to their headquarters in Da Nang, where Jack does a due diligence audit.
The Campus operations director John Clark recruits disgraced former Navy SEAL master chief Kendrick Moore to the organization in a provisional role. Kendrick goes to Mindanao in the Philippines to assist Campus analyst and Jack's fiancée Lisanne Robertson and Green Beret snipers Cary Marks and Jad Mustafa in apprehending Abu Sayyaf terrorist Adnan Al Sheikh, who had plotted to assassinate the president of the Philippines under Chinese orders. Cary kills Al Sheikh and encounters his men, who are then dispatched by Kendrick as they escape their compound.
During his audit, Jack finds inconsistencies in expense reports for GeoTech's samarium mining sites in Lay Tao and requests a visit there. This attracts the attention of Laotian MSS non-official cover agent Colonel Cai Qi, who orders his asset Highsmith to prevent Jack from jeopardizing the GeoTech acquisition in exchange for his promotion to acting CEO. Meanwhile, the U.S. Air Force successfully tests an experimental stealth pod named UMBRA, developed by defense contractor Quantum Atomics using rare earth magnets from GeoTech, unaware that Chinese radars can identify the pod through Cai's penetration of GeoTech.
The next day, Stephenson flies Jack and Howard to Lay Tao in a restored Vietnam War-era Huey helicopter, which crashes near the Cả River. Jack tries to save Stephenson, who dies when the helicopter crashes off a cliff. Cai is tasked by his MSS handler with hunting down Jack and Howard through the Snakehead smuggling gang, while Clark deploys the Campus team to Vietnam to rescue them. Jack and Howard are briefly captured by Snakehead gang members and brought upriver to nearby Laos, where they break free and escape. They meet former Montagnard soldier Alang Nik Trong, who informs them of a Snakehead base trafficking young women from his village. Meanwhile, the Campus team uses Stephenson's restored Vietnam War-era river patrol boat to locate Jack and Howard, later rescuing them from Snakehead gang members trying to kill them.
Jack and the Campus team go to Highsmith's plantation house in Huế to confront his brother-in-law Henri Claré and his wife Marie Anh (who had contacted Jack in Hong Kong) about their involvement in the helicopter crash. Henri confesses to placing Semtex on the helicopter, while Marie Anh informs Jack that the Claré family was forced to do business with the Snakehead gang when the samarium deposits were first discovered on their territory, in exchange for allowing the gang to continue their sex trafficking operation. She later calls Highsmith, who informs Cai. Cai and his Snakehead henchman Ling infiltrate the plantation and briefly capture Jack and Lisanne before they are apprehended by Cary and Kendrick.
A few days later, Jack, Lisanne, and Kendrick go to Highsmith’s office in Da Nang to confront him about his involvement with the Snakehead gang and the Chinese. Jack blackmails him into becoming a double agent for the Campus, as they continue to uncover Chinese involvement with criminal elements in Laos and Venezuela. His father, U.S. President Jack Ryan, later orders the Snakehead base in Laos destroyed and gives Kendrick his SEAL trident back.


== Characters ==


=== U.S. government officials and Campus operatives ===
Jack Ryan, Sr.: President of the United States, founder of The Campus
Mary Pat Foley: Director of national intelligence, advisor to The Campus
Arnie van Damm: White House chief of staff
Jack Ryan, Jr.: The President's son, a Campus team leader
John Clark: Operations director of The Campus
Lisanne Robertson: Campus intelligence and logistics coordinator
Cary Marks: Campus operator, active-duty Green Beret master sergeant
Jad Mustafa: Campus operator, active-duty Green Beret sergeant first class
Kendrick Moore: Navy SEAL master chief (retired), provisional Campus operator
Gavin Biery: Campus director of information technology


=== Hendley Associates and GeoTech Corporation ===
Gerry Hendley: President and CEO of Hendley Associates, a private equity firm
Howard Brennan: Chief investment officer, Hendley Associates
Bruce Stephenson: CEO of GeoTech, a rare earth mining and refining company
David Highsmith: GeoTech's president of Vietnamese operations


=== Vietnamese and Laotian characters ===
Colonel Cai Qi: Nonofficial cover agent of China's Ministry of State Security (MSS) in Laos
Ling and Twei: Cai's top two deputies, members of the Laotian Snakehead gang
Madame Marie Anh Claré: Sister-in-law of David Highsmith in Hué, Vietnam
Henri Claré: Madame Anh's husband
Alang Nik Trong: Former Montagnard soldier allied with the U.S. Military Assistance Command, Vietnam (MACV)


== Reception ==


=== Commercial ===
The book debuted at number ten at both the Combined Print and E-Book Fiction and Hardcover Fiction categories of the New York Times bestseller list for the week of September 8, 2024. It charted at number seven on the Mass Market Books category of the same list in August 2025.


=== Critical ===
Thriller novel reviewer The Real Book Spy praised the book: "Mixing action, intrigue, and political drama to create a fast-paced, high-stakes thriller that jumps off the page and demands your attention, M.P. Woodward gives Jack Ryan fans exactly what they’ve been asking for." The Big Thrill reviewed the book: "It delivers all the classic Clancy feels—terrifying tech, exciting action, and powerful characters who show their true heart and unstoppable bravery."


== References ==

The Amazing Spider-Man is an American comic book series about Spider-Man, published by Marvel Comics.
The Amazing Spider-Man may also refer to:


== Film and television ==
The Amazing Spider-Man (TV series), 1977–79
Spider-Man (1977 film), a pilot for The Amazing Spider-Man
The Amazing Spider-Man (film), 2012
The Amazing Spider-Man (soundtrack)


== Gaming ==
The Amazing Spider-Man (1990 video game)
The Amazing Spider-Man (2012 video game)
The Amazing Spider-Man (handheld video game), 1990
The Amazing Spider-Man (pinball)


== Other uses ==
The Amazing Spider-Man (comic strip), a daily comic strip


== See also ==
The Amazing Spider-Man 2 (disambiguation)
Spider-Man (disambiguation)
Peter Parker (The Amazing Spider-Man film series)

Lemuria was an American rock band formed in 2004 and originally based in Buffalo, New York. After a series of singles and EPs, Lemuria released albums between 2007 and 2017, and toured both the U.S. and internationally. The band's most recent effort, "Recreational Hate", was recorded by four-time Grammy award-winning producer/engineer Chris Shaw and released on the band's own record label, Turbo Worldwide, licensed through Asian Man Records in the U.S. and Big Scary Monsters in the U.K. The album was announced December 11, 2017, and was simultaneously received by many of the band's fans as a result of a "secret LP" placed for sale on their website months prior. "Recreational Hate" was made available digitally in December 2017, with physical copies released in February 2018.
Lemuria have cited numerous bands as influences, including Jawbox, the Lemonheads, Superchunk, Leatherface, Thin Lizzy, Archers of Loaf, Texas Is the Reason, Fleetwood Mac, and Pixies.


== History ==


=== 2004–2009 ===
Lemuria was first established in the summer of 2004 by drummer/vocalist Alex Kerns, guitarist/vocalist Sheena Ozzella, and bassist Adam Vernick. The trio began writing songs and released a five-song demo, recorded at Watchmen Recording Studios, which started a long-term relationship with engineer Doug White. After a handful of shows, and the release of the (now rare) Lemuria demo, the group parted ways with Vernick, and in March 2005, Jason Draper stepped in to join on bass.
The line-up of Lemuria featuring Alex, Sheena, and Jason went on to record many singles, splits, and 7" records. The majority of the early releases, including the demo, s/t 7", Lemuria/Frame split, Art of the Underground Single Series, and "You're Living Rooms All Over Me", were all released (or co-released) by Art Of The Underground, an indie record label owned and operated by Alex Kerns.
In 2007, after years of touring, the band remarked that never recording a full-length album had given them time "to grow and to "find our sound."" The band once again returned to Watchmen Recording Studios and began working on their first record, later titled Get Better and released on Asian Man Records. Lyrically, with the exception of the songs written by Sheena and Jason, the album took a much darker tone than previous works, as many of Alex Kern's lyrics were written dealing with the recent death of his father. Musically, however, the songs were bright and 'uplifting' as a result of the band and Alex's attitude. All these things led to and helped in titling the record Get Better.

The band began to tour on headlining bills as well as on tour packages. In the fall of 2007, Lemuria went on their first European tour, followed by the release of 'Get Better' in 2008. They continued touring throughout the US as well as Puerto Rico, the UK, and Canada in 2008, and were featured on the Asian Man Records tour alongside The Queers, Bomb the Music Industry, and Andrew Jackson Jihad. Lemuria also became a regular at the Gainesville, Florida based festival, The Fest, playing for the first time in 2006 and continuing to play every year since. When asked about their touring schedule, members of the band often express an affinity for the lifestyle:

"We're on tour a lot. It's one of the reasons we do the band. It's an excuse to travel. You go to a different city every day and show people your art."
In the fall of 2009, Alex and Sheena parted ways with Jason, who went on to concentrate on his other project, Failures' Union. Kyle Paton stepped in and the band continued to tour, though song writing became the responsibility more so of the duo of Kerns/Ozzella. The band continued to write and be active, and in April 2010 announced that they had signed to Bridge 9 Records. Signing to the Bridge 9 label, traditionally releasing albums for hardcore bands such as Agnostic Front and Slapshot, brought up many questions for both Lemuria as well as Bridge 9 as to the future of the two entities. In part, the connection to the label was due to a famous fan of Lemuria, Paramore's Hayley Williams, who had gone to see them play and connected the band with her then-boyfriend, Chad Gilbert, from New Found Glory, which had released an album on Bridge 9, according to an interview in Dying Scene.


=== 2010–2016 ===
In July, 2010, Lemuria made another big change and went in to record their debut full length for the label with J. Robbins in Baltimore, MD at Magpie Cage. However, during the mixing process of this recording session, bassist and Canadian citizen Kyle Paton ran into legal issues at the American border and as a result had to part ways with the band. In order to perform a show scheduled for later that week, Lemuria added the new bass player Max Gregor, who flew from Texas and began rehearsing in the studio. The lineup of Kerns/Ozzella/Gregor has continued to tour as well as write and record music since that time.

In early 2011, Lemuria released the digital single, "Chautauqua County", and a subsequent album, entitled "Pebble." The trio played a month of headlining shows to correspond with the release, followed by consistent shows through the year in the U.S. and Europe along with acts such as The Thermals, Screaming Females, and David Liebe Hart.

The band closed out 2012 by again recording with J. Robbins. The result became its third full-length studio album, The Distance Is So Big, released June 2013 on Bridge Nine. With the most consistent line-up in the band's career, Lemuria spent 2013 supporting "The Distance Is So Big" with shows across Canada and the U.S., including a week at Austin's SXSW festival. 2014 tours brought the band across the U.S. a few times, with a notable stop at Chicago's Riot Fest, and before crowds in Thailand, Indonesia, Australia, Malaysia and the Philippines. During this time, the band has shared the stage and tours with Ted Leo, Aimee Mann, Tigers Jaw, Kind of Like Spitting, and The Menzingers.


=== 2017–present ===
In 2017, Lemuria revisited their 2007 debut release, Get Better, with a limited reissue as well as US and UK tours performing the album from start to finish. Simultaneously, they prepared to release their latest record, "Recreational Hate", on their own label, Turbo Worldwide. The album was released in a unique way, summarized in this letter included with each order, and also posted on the band's website:"Thanks to everyone who took a gamble and purchased the "secret LP" we put up for sale back in August. We're excited to unveil that the LP you ordered is our new studio album, "Recreational Hate".   Your trust and subsequent purchase enabled us to achieve some great feats with this release, including working with the 4-time Grammy winning producer and engineer Chris Shaw. We chose to work with him, in part, for his very eclectic discography, including the Weezer "Blue" album, Bob Dylan, Leonard Cohen, Ice Cube, Wilco, Public Enemy, Modest Mouse, A Tribe Called Quest, Ween and Lou Reed.  You also gave us the opportunity to launch Turbo Worldwide, our new record label and home base for all things Lemuria.  As a "thank you", you are receiving the LP approximately the same time as this announcement, 2 months before the album reaches the shelves of your local record store.A few years back, we thought it would be fun to place some very old songs (our CD-R-only demo) on an LP, and put it up for sale as a mysterious "Secret" release. Whoever bought this wouldn't know what they ordered until it arrived in the mail and they spun it on their record player. We held no expectations as to what the response would be, however it was overwhelmingly positive, and the folks who received this special item seemed to enjoy the fun and mystery as much as we did. We tried various iterations of this in years to come, and we noticed that, each time we did, it was a similar group of friends and supporters who jumped on the opportunity. It's the same group of folks who tirelessly support our shows, support our releases, and are our motivating force that inspire us to keep actualizing our passion. We don't, not even for a second, take this amount of trust and support for granted.  As a thank you, when we were planning the release for "Recreational Hate", we decided to go this secretive route once again in hopes that a similar investment from you would turn into an even bigger reward of a full-length studio album.These songs represent our next step forward.  It has been a wild adventure for us to arrive to this moment of releasing the album.  Thank you for traveling with us."The band toured briefly in support of Recreational Hate, including a week opening for Jeff Rosenstock. On October 17, 2018, however, Lemuria announced that they would be cancelling their Recreational Hate fall tour with Bethlehem Steel. The band stated:  "We’re unable to go on our upcoming tour...Some of us are dealing with personal matters, making touring not possible at the moment."
Lemuria has been inactive since 2018, not releasing any new music or playing any shows. Kerns and Gregor have focused on their solo careers, while Ozzella began an a cappella trio with Anika Pyle and Augusta Koch entitled Sheena, Anika and Augusta. Their EP, Simple Pleasures, was released in 2019.


== Members ==
Final line-up
Sheena Ozzella - lead and backing vocals, guitar (2004–2018)
Alex Kerns - lead and backing vocals, drums (2004–2018)
Max Gregor - bass, backing vocals (2010–2018)
Tony Flaminio - lead guitar, backing vocals (2017–2018; touring musician)
Former members
Adam Vernick - bass, backing vocals (2004-2005)
Jason Draper - bass, backing vocals (2005-2009)
Kyle Paton - bass, backing vocals (2009-2010)


== Discography ==


=== Albums ===
Get Better (Asian Man Records, 2008)
Pebble (Bridge 9 Records, 2011)
The Distance Is So Big (Bridge 9 Records, 2013)
Recreational Hate (Turbo Worldwide, 2017) (Big Scary Monsters, UK & EU)


=== EPs ===
Self Titled 7"/CD (Art of the Underground/All Things Ordinary - 2005)


=== Compilation albums ===
The First Collection (Yo-Yo Records, Asian Man Records, 2007)
Companion (Turbo Worldwide, 2018)


=== 7" singles and split releases ===
"Frame" - Split 7" (2005, Art of the Underground)
"Your Livingroom's All Over Me" - Split CD/LP with Kind of Like Spitting (2006, Art of the Underground)
"Art of the Underground - Single Series Volume 10" 7"  (2007, Art of the Underground)
"The Ergs" - Split 7"  (2007, Art of the Underground, Yo-Yo Records)
"Ozzy" b/w "Expert Herder" - 7" (2009, Hex Records)
"Under The Influence Volume 7" - Split 7" with Off With Their Heads (2009, Suburban Home Records)
"Chautauqua County" b/w "They Are Who I Say They Are" - 7" (2010, Bridge 9 Records)
"Cheap Girls" - Split 7" (2011, No Idea Records)
"Varoom Allure" b/w "Cannonballs to Hurt" 7" (2012, Bridge 9 Records)
"Brilliant Dancer" (2013, Bridge 9 Records)
"Turnstile Comix  #3 - 7"" (2014, Silver Sprocket)
"Wanted to Be Yours" b/w "Utah" 7" (2017, Turbo Worldwide)


=== Music videos ===
Wise People (2012)
Pleaser (2012)
Scienceless (2013)
Oahu, Hawaii (2014)
Brilliant Dancer (2014)
Christine Perfect (2018)
Kicking In (2018)


=== Compilation appearances ===
Art of the Underground Sampler CD - Art of the Underground, 2005 (song: "Getting Over Ourselves" - from 2004 demo)
NY vs. NJ - Crafty Records, 2007 (songs: "Beespit", "Origamists Too")
Insubordination Fest 2008 CD/DVD - Insubordination, 2008 (song: "Mechanical" - live recording)
Insubordination Fest 2009 CD/DVD - Insubordination, 2009 (song: "Hours" - live recording)
IndoorShoes - Adopted Friends Vol. 1, 2010 (Song: Hours)
Invisible Children Benefit - Robbed the Bank, 2012 (song: "Wise People")


=== Demos ===
2004 Demo CD (2004, self-released)


== References ==


== External links ==
Lemuria in Buffalo Rising
interview in Jersey Beat.
Punknews.org "Get Better" review
Interview with The Music Fix
Lemuria in Rochester City Newspaper
Sound As Language interview
Lemuria Tour Photo Essay Series

The CalArts Center for New Performance (CNP) is the professional producing arm of the California Institute of the Arts. 
Founded in 2002 by Susan Solt, Travis Preston, and Carol Bixler and launched with Travis Preston's groundbreaking all female production of King Lear, and originally called the CalArts Center for New Theater, the name was changed in 2005.


== Projects ==


== Leadership ==
Travis Preston, Founding Artistic Director
Marissa Chibás, Director of Duende CalArts; Producing Artist
Daniel Alexander Jones, Producing Artist
Amanda Shank, Associate Artistic Director
Chi-wang Yang, Associate Artistic Director
Paul Turbiak, Director of Communications
Rui Xu, Producer
George Lugg, Consulting Producer


== Awards ==
King Lear (2003)

Three NAACP awards including Best Performance by a Female for Fran Bennett as King Lear, Best Production and Best Lighting Design
Five LA Ovation Award Nominations
2011 MetLife/TCG A-Ha! Program grant recipient


== References ==

The 2012–13 season was Coventry City's 93rd season in The Football League and their first season in Football League One following relegation from the Football League Championship. In addition to League One, the Sky Blues also entered the League Cup, the FA Cup and the Football League Trophy in the first rounds.


== Review and events ==


=== Monthly events ===
This is a list of the significant events to occur at the club during the 2012–13 season, presented in chronological order. This list does not include transfers, which are listed in the transfers section below, or match results, which are in the results section.
June:

7 – The kit for the forthcoming season is revealed.
14 – Coventry City draw Dagenham & Redbridge away in the League Cup First Round.
18 – Coventry City's fixtures for the 2012–13 Football League One season are announced
18 – Assistant Manager Steve Harrison leaves Coventry City by mutual consent, due to cost-cutting measures.
20 – Coventry City have transfer embargo lifted after filling accounts and The Football League sign off.
26 – Coventry City's sixth game of the season against Stevenage will be shown live on Sky Sports on 9 September.
28 – Coventry City appoint former player Richard Shaw as Assistant Manager.
July:

1 – Andy Thorn called the players back for training a week early then planned to get the squad ready for the 2012–13 season.
23 – Former Coventry City midfielder Ernie Machin died at the age of 68.
30 – Squad numbers were released for the forthcoming season.
31 – Coventry City are placed in the Northern Section East for the First Round of the Football League Trophy.
August:

15 – Coventry City draw Birmingham City at home in the League Cup Second Round.
16 – Kevin Kilbane is named new club captain for the 2012–13 season, taking over from Sammy Clingan.
16 – Jordan Clarke signed a new contract until 2014, with an option for a further year.
18 – Coventry City draw Burton Albion at home in the Football League Trophy First Round.
18 – 2012–13 League One season kicks off.
26 – Manager Andy Thorn is relieved of managerial duties with immediate effect.
26 – Assistant Manager Richard Shaw and First Team Coach Lee Carsley are placed in caretaker charge of first team duties.
28 – Carl Baker is named in the Official Football League League One team of the week, following his performance against Bury.
30 – Coventry City draw Arsenal away in the League Cup Third Round.
September:

8 – Coventry City draw York City away in the Football League Trophy Second Round.
19 – Mark Robins is appointed as new Coventry City manager, signing a three-year contract.
21 – SISU and The Alan Higgs Trust reach an initial agreement concerning Coventry City buying 50% of the Ricoh Arena.
21 – Coventry City appoint Steve Taylor as First Team Coach.
October:

2 – Joe Murphy and Reece Brown are named in the Official Football League League One team of the week, following their performances against Oldham Athletic.
8 – Joe Murphy is named in the Official Football League League One team of the week, following his clean sheet performance against AFC Bournemouth.
13 – Coventry City draw Sheffield United or Notts County at home in the Football League Trophy Northern section quarter-final.
16 – David McGoldrick is named in the Official Football League League One team of the week, following his performance against Swindon Town, where he scored two goals.
16 – Richard Shaw leaves Coventry City after change to the management structure. Shaw left with immediate effect.
16 – Coventry City welcome former physio Dave Hart back to the Ricoh Arena as Mark Robins strengthens his backroom staff as part of a restructuring programme.
21 – Coventry City draw Arlesey Town at home in the FA Cup First Round.
29 – Cyrus Christie and David McGoldrick are named in the Official Football League League One team of the week, following their performance against Leyton Orient.
30 – Coventry City striker David McGoldrick had the third Coventry City goal against York City in the Johnstone's Paint Trophy rewarded to him by the Football League.
November:

4 – Coventry City draw Morecambe or Rochdale at home in the FA Cup Second Round.
20 – Carl Baker is named in the Official Football League League One team of the week.
December:

2 – Coventry City draw Tottenham Hotspur away in the FA Cup Third Round.
8 – Coventry City midfielder Kevin Kilbane announced his retirement from professional football.
8 – Coventry City draw Bury or Preston North End in the Football League Trophy Area Semi-Final.
10 – Cyrus Christie, Carl Baker and David McGoldrick were named in the Official Football League League One team of the week, following the performance against Walsall.
12 – Coventry City's Football League Trophy regional semi-final will be shown live on Sky Sports.
17 – Coventry City's David McGoldrick is named in the Official Football League League One team of the week.
18 – David McGoldrick has been awarded the PFA Fans' Player of the Month award for November.
31 – Stephen Elliott is named in the Official Football League League One team of the week.
January:

11 – Coventry City have been drawn to play at home first in the two-legged tie in the Football League Trophy against either Crewe Alexandra or Bradford City
11 – Mark Robins was named manager of the month for December.
11 – David McGoldrick was named player of the month for December.
22 – James Bailey and Gary McSheffrey are named in the Official Football League League One team of the week.
February:

4 – Leon Clarke was named in the Official Football League League One team of the week after scoring 2 goals in his performance against Sheffield United.
14 – Manager Mark Robins leaves Coventry City, along with coach Steve Taylor, after being announced as the new boss of Huddersfield Town.
18 – Joe Murphy and Carl Baker were named in the Official Football League League One team of the week following their performances against Bury.
March:

1 – Club placed under transfer embargo for failing to file accounts.
4 – Deputy Chairman John Clarke resigned from Coventry City Football Club's Board.
6 – Coventry City were granted permission to speak to Falkirk manager Steven Pressley about the vacant managerial position.
8 – Steven Pressley was unveiled as the new Coventry City manager.
11 – Leon Clarke was named in the Official Football League League One team of the week following his performance against Scunthorpe United.
20 – Cyrus Christie was named in the Official Football League League One team of the week following his performance versus Hartlepool United/
21 – SISU place non-operating subsidiary Coventry City Football Club Ltd into administration.
23 – All Coventry City staff based at Ricoh Arena are moved out and club shop stock removed.
28 – Leon Clarke and Carl Baker were named in the Official Football League League One top 10 players of the 2012–13 season.
28 – An agreement is made between SISU and ACL for remaining 3 league games to be played at Ricoh Arena.
28 – Coventry City are deducted 10 points by the Football League for entering administration.
April

4 – Cyrus Christie is named in the Official Football League League One team of the week, following his performance against Doncaster Rovers.
4 – Coventry City Football Club (Holdings) Ltd appeal against the 10 points deduction against them.
8 – Carl Baker is named in the Official Football League League One team of the week, following his performance against Brentford.
10 – Coventry City Football Club (Holdings) Ltd withdraw the appeal against the 10 points deduction against them.
10 – Coventry City youngsters Cian Harries and George Thomas are called up to the Wales Under-16 squad for the matches in the UEFA Development Tournament.
12 – Cian Harries and George Thomas play in 2–0 win for Wales Under-16 against Northern Ireland Under-16.
13 – George Thomas plays in 1–1 draw for Wales Under-16 against Faroe Islands Under-16.
14 – Cian Harries and George Thomas play in 2–0 win for Wales Under-16 against Iceland Under-16.


== Squad details ==


=== Players info ===
As of 29 April 2013


== Matches ==


=== Preseason friendlies ===


=== League One ===


=== League Cup ===


=== FA Cup ===


=== Football League Trophy ===


== League One ==


=== League table ===


=== Results summary ===


=== Round by round ===

* 10 points were deducted from Coventry City's league total prior to the playing of the round 41 match.


=== Scores overview ===


== Season statistics ==


=== Starts and goals ===
As of 23 March 2013


=== Goalscorers ===


=== Assists ===


=== Yellow cards ===


=== Red cards ===


=== Captains ===


=== Penalties awarded ===


=== Suspensions served ===


=== Monthly and weekly awards ===


=== End-of-season awards ===


=== International appearances ===


=== Overall ===


== Transfers ==


=== Transfers in ===


=== Transfers out ===


=== Loans in ===


=== Loans out ===


=== Trials ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Official Site: 2012–13
BBC Sport – Club Stats
Soccerbase – Results | Squad Stats | Transfers

George Baker Selection was a Dutch pop-rock band from Assendelft. The band is best-known for the 1969 song "Little Green Bag", the 1975 world-wide hit "Paloma Blanca", and the 1985 Pan European hit "Santa Lucia by Night".


== History ==
In 1968, Hans Bouwens from Wormerveer joined the band Soul Invention, a soul band that had been founded the previous year by Henk Kramer in Assendelft and played covers of songs by Otis Redding and Sam and Dave. The band consisted of Job Netten (guitar), Henk Kramer and Eric Bardoen (saxophone), Jacques Greuter (keyboard and flute), Theo Vermast and later Jan Visser (bass), and Ton Vredenburg (drums). Visser and Bouwens wrote the song "Little Greenback"  [sic] in the summer of 1969. The band recorded their first album in September 1969, after which, considering this was not soul music, they changed their name to The George Baker Selection, Bouwens naming himself for a character from a detective novel. This first album, Little Green Bag (1970), produced an immediate worldwide hit: their debut single, "Little Green Bag," reached No. 16 on the Cash Box magazine chart and No. 21 on the Billboard Hot 100 in the United States. The success came as a surprise for Baker, who remembers hearing it on the radio while he was working in a lemonade factory. The single sold over one million copies globally and received a gold disc. A string of singles and albums followed; the second single, "Dear Ann," was such a success that Baker resigned from his job in the lemonade factory and became a full-time musician. Not all band members followed suit and, besides Bouwens, the Selection from mid-1970 was formed by Jan Visser, Jan Hop (drums), Jacques Greuter and George Thé (voice, guitar, bass). In March 1971 Jan Visser left the band to be replaced by Cor Veerman. Besides scoring hits with his own Selection, Baker wrote songs for others, including BZN, The Shoes, Andy Star, and Next One. In 1974, singer Lida Bond joined the Selection, and combining her voice with Baker's proved highly successful.
Their fifth album, Paloma Blanca, was released in 1975, and the single "Paloma Blanca" reached No. 1 on charts in several countries. It sold more than seven million copies worldwide, making it one of the most successful Dutch singles ever.
In 1978, the George Baker Selection split up because "the pressure had become too much." The band has sold over 20 million records worldwide. George Baker formed a new George Baker Selection in 1982, which stayed together until 1989. The band has released twelve albums and several compilation albums.
The band experienced a brief return to the international charts in 1992 when the song "Little Green Bag" was used in the title sequence of the film Reservoir Dogs and in Machos, a Chilean soap opera in 2003. The song is also featured in a Moto X smartphone commercial circa 2013.


== Members ==

Hans Bouwens (as George Baker) (composer, vocals, guitar, mandolin, flute, piano and organ) 1968–1977, 1982–1989
Elly Bloothoofd (vocals, guitar) 1982–1989
Lida Bond (vocals) 1974–1977
Nelleke Brzoskowsky (vocals) 1982–1989
Willy Delano (vocals) 1977, 1982–1989
Pieter Goeman (organ and piano) 1982–1989
Jacques Greuter (vocals, organ, flute and piano) 1967–1982
Jan Hop (drums) 1969–1977, 1983–1989
Henk Kramer (saxophone) 1967–1970
Nathalie Más (vocals) 1977–1982
Job Netten (guitar) 1967–1970
Martin Schoen (bass) 1974–1982
George Thé (vocals, guitar and bass) 1970–1977, 1983–1989
Cor Veerman (as Alan Decker) (bass) 1971–1974
Theo Vermast (bass) 1967–1968
Jan Visser (bass) 1968–1971
Ton Vredenburg (drums) 1967–1970


== Discography ==


=== Studio albums ===
Albums on Negram recording label, except as noted.


=== Compilations ===
5 Jaar Hits (1974) NL No. 3
The Best Of Baker (1977) NL No. 8
Het komplete hitoverzicht (1986) NL No. 12
Dreamboat (1988) NL No. 21
The Very Best Of (1999) NL No. 24
George Baker Selection 100 NL No. 67
The Golden Years Of Dutch Pop Music NL No. 68


=== Singles ===


== References ==

The Duquesne Country and Athletic Club ice hockey team was a member of the Western Pennsylvania Hockey League (WPHL) from 1896 to 1901. The team was based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.


== History ==
The Duquesne Country and Athletic Club (DC&AC) first played exhibition games of ice hockey in 1895. The Duquesne team then played in the first season of the WPHL at the Schenley Park Casino, with three other teams, the Pittsburgh Athletic Club, a club from Western University of Pennsylvania (the University of Pittsburgh today) and a team known as Pittsburgh, or the 'Casino' team. The league played twice a week, on Tuesday and Friday nights. The DC&AC and the WPHL continued play until December 16, when the Casino rink was destroyed by fire. The Duquesne team finished the shortened season of league play with a 2–3 record.
The league and the DC&AC resumed play in 1898, with its games moved to the new ice rink at the Duquesne Garden, with league members the Pittsburgh Athletic Club and Western University. Many of the team's players came from Canada, with the Pittsburgh-based club owners luring players to the area with the promise of high paying jobs and a living stipend.
By early 1901, the broader DC&AC organization, which had been active in multiple sports and fielded a professional football team of national repute, was in financial ruin and lost its clubhouse to foreclosure. The 1900–01 season was the hockey team's last.


== References ==


== See also ==
Duquesne Country and Athletic Club, an early American professional football team

Jaʿda bint al-Ashʿath (Arabic: جعدة بنت الأشعث) (Full name: Jaʿda bint al-Ashʿath ibn Qays al-Kindī) was the wife of Hasan ibn Ali.


== Shia view ==
Shia Muslim historians wrote that Ja'da was promised gold and marriage to Yazid I. Seduced by the promise of wealth and power, she poisoned her husband, and then hastened to the court of Mu'awiya in Damascus to receive her reward. Later Mu’awya reneged on his promise to marry her to his son and married her to another man.


== See also ==
Husayn ibn Ali
Hasan–Muawiya treaty


== References ==

The Saint Anthony Falls Laboratory (former name: Saint Anthony Falls Hydraulic Laboratory), or SAFL, is a research laboratory situated on Hennepin Island in the Mississippi River in Minneapolis, Minnesota, United States. Its primary research is in "Engineering, Environmental, Biological, and Geophysical Fluid Mechanics". It is affiliated with the University of Minnesota's College of Science and Engineering. Research is conducted by graduate students and faculty alike using the 16,000 square feet of research space and 24 different specialized facilities.
The laboratory is unique in that its location next to Saint Anthony Falls allows it to use the hydraulic head from the waterfall to provide water for many of the experiments.
The experiments performed at the laboratory are varied, and may include:

Contract civil and environmental engineering work, such as dam construction and removal
Understanding river system dynamics
Work with oil exploration to characterize deposits in deltaic systems
Work to understand the interactions between fluid flow and the ecology of rivers
Work to understand cavitation in fluids in order to build better propellers
The Saint Anthony Falls Laboratory is also the headquarters of the National Center for Earth-surface Dynamics, a National Science Foundation Science and Technology Center.
The laboratory is a contributing resource of the Saint Anthony Falls Historic District which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.


== History ==
SAFL was designed and built in the 1930s with funding provided by the Works Progress Administration and was headed by Lorenz G. Straub until his death in 1963. Construction began in March, 1936 and the Lab was opened and dedicated in November, 1938.
At first, SAFL focused on hydraulic and engineering research, but after Straub's death the Lab began to expand its research to broader focuses such as stratified flows, turbulence and hydrology. An atmospheric layer wind tunnel and multiple flumes were also added to the collection of research facilities. This was made possible through funding from the National Science Foundation (NSF).
From 1977 through 1993, the Laboratory emphasized the integration of education and basic and applied research. Several new faculty were appointed to bring new research efforts to SAFL like computational fluid dynamics, water resources and energy, environmental water research, naval hydrodynamics, cavitation, wind engineering, small hydropower development, rainfall modeling, and geomorphology to name a few. The NSF made SAFL the headquarters of the National Center of Earth-Surface Dynamics (NCED) in 2002, a center devoted to greater predictive earth surface technology and research.
In 2006, the University of Minnesota and St. Anthony Falls Laboratory implemented a wind-energy research consortium, called EOLOS, which brought together academic partners, industry, and government laboratories with help of a grant from the Department of Energy. This new facility located just south of Minneapolis brought SAFL more into the world of renewable energy research with the addition of a wind turbine among other things.
Since then, SAFL has become a center for the study of earth surface and fluid dynamics. Multiple new facilities have been added over the years to expand research capabilities and many have been created by the staff and are exclusively used by SAFL researchers.
Funding for SAFL's expansions has come throughout the years from a number of outside sources like NASA, NSF, U.S. Navy, Department of Energy, Air Force Office of Scientific Research, Hamburg Ship Model Basin, the Legislative-Citizen Commission for Minnesota Resources, and many more.
The St. Anthony Falls Laboratory was added as a research facility to the University of Minnesota's College of Science and Engineering in 2011.


== Research programs ==
Research at SAFL includes the work of many fields, including civil engineering, hydraulic engineering, hydrology, ecology, and geology. Research at SAFL has been spurred on in the first decade of the 21st century by its status as the headquarters of the National Center for Earth-surface Dynamics (NCED)
Analog material models of fluvial and depositional systems are employed by geologists at SAFL to understand the causes of river channel morphologies and dynamics, as well as to reconstruct the history of events that produces particular stratigraphic packages. Researchers working on channel morphology have shown the importance of vegetation in restricting braided channels to a single thread (and often sinuous) system. Research done on experimental alluvial fan deltas has highlighted the statistics of flow occupation and their potential hazard to life and property, shown autogenic cyclicity in patterns of sediment storage and release that determine short-term shoreline positions, and has been connected to sequence stratigraphy and the processes that form the stratigraphic record.
Research at SAFL is primarily concentrated in four major areas:

Earth surface, water, and life
Mitigating impacts of global environmental change
Renewable energy systems
Biomedical fluid mechanics for personalized health care


=== Earth surface, water, and life research ===
SAFL became involved with NCED in 2002, an NSF Science and Technology center that focuses on developing an integrated, quantitative approach to predicting the evolution of Earth's surface. It concentrates on a full range of critical disciplines such as engineering, Earth science, biology, mathematics, physics, and social sciences. Now SAFL is a part of NCED2, a grant that supports the continuation of the research synthesis postdoctoral and outreach programs created by NCED.
At present, SAFL's Earth surface research revolves around the following interlinked themes:

Multi-scale virtual aquatic environments
Interplay of fluid flow, microorganism physiology, and biogeochemistry
Particles, bubbles, and other multi-phase flows
Deltas and depositional systems
River networks as corridors of environmental change
SAFL's long-term research vision is to "develop an interconnected system of theoretical and computational models, supported by data streams from the living surface environment, that can provide testable, adaptive predictions for scenarios ranging from environmental restoration and natural hazard mitigation to changes in precipitation to global sea-level rise."


=== Global environmental change research ===
SAFL has active research programs in a number of areas to assess and quantify global change impacts and to develop science-based solutions for mitigating their consequences such as an altered atmosphere and a degradation of water resources.
SAFL research areas include:

Earth observations from space for assessing global environmental change
Debris flow hazards
River flooding
Air quality
Water quality and habitat
"Mitigating the impacts of global environmental change will be at the forefront of scientific research for many decades to come. SAFL is positioned to help create real and measurable impacts through catalyzing large-scale interdisciplinary research, integrating engineering with social, behavioral, and economic sciences, leveraging big data and data-driven science, exploiting exponentially growing computational capacity, and actively engaging stakeholders, policy makers, and communities."


=== Renewable energy research ===
Since 2007 SAFL has developed new experimental facilities at laboratory and field scales, advanced computational tools, and new partnerships with industry and government laboratories to position itself for more capable research in fluid mechanics and renewable energy systems. This research focus aims to use research and technology to combat and study the effects of climate change such as more frequent extreme weather phenomena, and sea level rise.
SAFL research in this field includes: 

Wind energy
Water power (including hydropower and marine and hydrokinetic technologies)
Biofuel production from microscopic algae.
"The most economically feasible strategies for significantly reducing global carbon emissions involve substantial increases in energy production from renewable resources, which presently contribute only 10-13% in the world’s energy portfolio... Renewable energy technologies based on wind energy, marine hydrokinetic energy, and biofuel energy are integral parts of the living Earth-surface environment. The implementation of these technologies should be supported by mechanistic models, which are driven by real-time data, and should be integrated with policy, economics, human health sciences, and ecology. SAFL can provide national leadership on all of these fronts, working with a mindset to actively engage industry, government and state agencies, and other renewable energy stakeholders."


=== Biomedical fluid mechanics research ===
The coupling between fluid mechanics and biology has led to growth in recent years of research aimed at understanding the fluid mechanics of the human body and quantifying their linkages with disease pathways.
SAFL is a leader in cardiovascular fluid mechanics research using a simulation-based research approach. Novel computational hemodynamics tools have been developed, validated, and applied to study a wide range of clinically relevant problems. Partnerships have been established and leveraged within the UMN with the Department of Biomedical Engineering, the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Mechanics, the Medical School, and the Institute for Engineering in Medicine, as well as with the Mayo Clinic and other collaborators around the country.
Research themes include: 

Cardiovascular fluid mechanics research
Respiratory fluid mechanics research
The guiding task for biomedical fluid mechanics research in the coming years is integration of computational tools from the academic research arena to clinical practice supporting the rapidly emerging future of personalized health care.


== Research facilities and engineering services ==
The St. Anthony Falls Laboratory is a 16,000 square foot research facility on the Mississippi River. The Lab has 15 general purpose flumes, tanks, and channels that are readily configurable to the needs of a project and can indefinitely pump in water from the Mississippi at up to 300 ft³/s. Facilities at SAFL include the main channel, through which Mississippi River water can be sent for large-scale sediment transport experiments; the delta basins, designed to quickly build experimental stratigraphy; the eXperimental EarthScape facility (XES, nicknamed "Jurassic Tank"), a subsiding basin for large-scale depositional modeling; the Outdoor Stream Lab, which is used to understand fluvial processes and riparian ecology at closer to a field scale; and many other pieces of equipment. The lab is known for rapidly constructing and destructing experimental apparatuses, including full-scale models of rivers to understand the effects of dam removal.


=== Engineering services ===
SAFL’s Applied Research & Engineering team expertise ranges from hydraulics, to aerospace engineering, to welding, to data collection systems. The team provides a number of services including research, product testing, and fabrication.


=== Main channel ===
The main channel is SAFL's largest research channel, measuring 275 feet in length, is a straight, concrete channel that has the capability of a 300 ft³/s flow rate of water from the Mississippi River that can be run as a pond system or a flow-through system. The channel is equipped with a wave generator, sediment flux monitoring and recirculation system, and a data acquisition carriage.


=== EXperimental EarthScape (nicknamed "Jurassic Tank" or XES) ===
This specialized basin is used to study delta and basin morphodynamics on geologic time scales. This basin is unique to SAFL because of its design and capabilities: it can incorporate the effects of tectonism on surface processes by simulating subsidence in the basin floor and its data carriage allows data collection over the entire XES basin and assists in "slicing" for more visible cross-sections. The XES basin is home to SAFL's most advanced data carriage.


=== Delta basins ===
These two rectangular basins part of SAFL research on deltas and deltaic systems. The basins allow control of water surface, sediment feed, and water feed rates. Data acquisition includes a new SAFL-designed data carriage, topographic scanner, and various camera systems. Both basins are 16.4 x 16.4 feet and are 2.1 feet deep.


=== Outdoor StreamLab ===
Located outside of the SAFL building, this uniquely designed outdoor field-scale facility was developed by SAFL and NCED and can be used to conduct larger experiments under controlled conditions. It is capable of creating floods and has a large range of flow rates for hydrological, ecological and biological research. the OSL allows for a range of water flow rates, sediment feed rates, a meandering river bend, channel formation, and flooding capabilities. This is used to facilitate a variety of floodplain, vegetation, and channel research opportunities. The StreamLab has a recirculating water outflow  of up to a 200 L³/s.


=== Wind tunnel ===
Designed for modeling of the air/land boundary layer, the wind tunnel can provide a circulating or once-through flow of air that can reach up to 148 ft/s. It is equipped with a glass observation wall, temperature and surface variation capabilities, a rotating turntable, smoke generator, and laser instrumentation. The tunnel has temperature control capabilities that allow for study effects of thermal stratification in atmosphere on structures.


=== CloudIA ===
CloudIA is a SAFL-created facility that is composed of 256 individually controlled air jets that can generate 1 m³ of air turbulence.  It is designed to replicate conditions found in the atmosphere to study particle
behavior on a smaller scale. Liquid or solid micro-particles can be dropped in at adjustable rates and are tracked by multiple high-speed cameras and a high-repetition laser. CloudIA is also fully transparent to allow live visibility.


=== EOLOS ===
A wind energy consortium that is partnered with many organizations that range from small companies to government agencies like the U.S. Department of Energy. Ongoing research projects deal with wind farm siting, condition-based monitoring, control system optimization, aeroelastic modeling, drag and noise reduction methods, radar interactions with wind farms, power electronics, and gear boxes.


=== Other research facilities ===
SAFL also has a number of other specialized research facilities that include multiple flumes, channels, tanks and basins of varying shapes and sizes depending on the research project.


== Education and outreach ==


=== Public lectures ===
During the academic year, SAFL hosts biweekly seminars on various topics related to environmental, geophysical and biological fluid mechanics and engineering featuring presenters from academia, government agencies and industry. These seminars are free and open to the public.


=== Tours ===
SAFL hosts both public and private facility tours. During the summer, public tours are listed on the University of Minnesota's Events Calendar with registration information. Private tours can be requested for groups of 6 or more on SAFL's tour website. Private tours are prioritized for educational or professional groups with connections to SAFL research.


=== Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU) ===
The REU program is a collaboration among the University of Minnesota, the Fond du Lac Band of the Lake Superior Chippewa, and the Confederated Salish and Kootenai tribes in Montana to study various research topics that can help problems in the community. Topics can concentrate on Earth-surface dynamics, geology, civil and environmental engineering, ecology, biology, hydrology, etc.


== References ==

Twilight: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack is the official soundtrack to Twilight, released on November 4, 2008.
The soundtrack was chosen by music supervisor Alexandra Patsavas; while the score, Twilight: The Score, was composed by Carter Burwell. The soundtrack album was released by Patsavas' Chop Shop label in conjunction with Atlantic Records. It debuted at number 1 on the Billboard 200, having sold about 165,000 copies in its first week of release, 29% of which were digital downloads. Twilight: The Score was made available for digital download on November 25, 2008, and the album was released to stores on December 9, 2008.
Twilight is the best-selling theatrical movie soundtrack in the United States since Chicago. Both the soundtrack and the lead single, "Decode" by Paramore, were nominated for the 2010 Grammy Awards.


== Twilight: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack ==
Director Catherine Hardwicke revealed in an interview with MTV that a song by alternative rock band Muse, later revealed to be "Supermassive Black Hole", would be included on the film's soundtrack. The soundtrack includes two songs by Paramore, a new song by Mutemath, and an original song for the film by Perry Farrell. "Flightless Bird, American Mouth" by Iron & Wine was chosen for inclusion in the movie by actress Kristen Stewart, who plays Bella Swan. The soundtrack won a 2009 American Music Award for Favorite Soundtrack.


=== Marketing ===
The CD booklet on the physical CD folds out into one of four Twilight posters. Hot Topic locations across the United States hosted exclusive Twilight soundtrack listening parties on October 24. Albums bought at Borders bookstores feature an acoustic version of Paramore's "Decode". Summit Entertainment provided a free remix of "Bella's Lullaby" through iTunes, with the purchase of a Twilight theatre ticket through online ticket services Fandango or MovieTickets.com.


=== Track listing ===

Notes
The first song of the ending credits, Radiohead's "15 Step" (3:59), was not included on the soundtrack.


=== Singles ===
"Decode", by Paramore, was the first single released from the soundtrack. It premiered on Paramore's fan club site and Stephenie Meyer's official website on October 1, 2008. The music video for "Decode" premiered on November 3. The song was certified Platinum in the U.S. on February 16, 2010, selling over 1,000,000 copies. It was also nominated for a Grammy Award in 2010 for Best Song Written for a Movie.
"Go All the Way (Into the Twilight)" by Perry Farrell was the second single released from the soundtrack. It premiered on Meyer's website on October 23, 2008.


=== Chart performance ===
The Twilight soundtrack debuted at #1 on the Billboard 200, selling 165,000 copies in its first week, according to Nielsen Soundscan. Twilight is the first soundtrack to hit #1 in advance of its film's release since the 8 Mile soundtrack in 2002. The album was certified double platinum on April 16, 2009. After a re-release of the album in a "Deluxe Edition" in March, 2009, it climbed from #14 to #3 on the Billboard 200, selling 74,000 copies. It remained on the Billboard 200 for 48 consecutive weeks.  As of April 2014, the album has sold 2,807,000 copies in the US.
The soundtrack peaked at number one in New Zealand on February 9, 2009, and has been certified platinum, selling over 15,000 copies. The album has been certified gold in Mexico, selling over 50,000 copies.


=== Certifications ===


== Twilight: The Score ==

Carter Burwell composed and orchestrated the score for Twilight over a 9- to 10-week period, and it was recorded and mixed in about 2 weeks in late September 2008. He began the score with a "Love Theme" for Bella and Edward's relationship, a variation of which became "Bella's Lullaby" that Robert Pattinson plays in the film and that is included on the Twilight Original Motion Picture Soundtrack. The original theme is featured throughout the film, and serves to "play the romance that drives the story". Another theme Burwell composed was a "Predator Theme", which opens the film, and is intended to play Edward's vampire nature. Other themes include a bass-line, drum beat and distorted guitar sound for the nomadic vampires, and a melody for the Cullen family. Twilight: The Score was released digitally on November 25, 2008, and in stores on December 9. The score album had sold 218,000 copies in the United States as of June 2010.


=== Track listing ===


=== Chart performance ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Official Twilight soundtrack website
Twilight soundtrack at MusicBrainz (list of releases)
Twilight score at MusicBrainz (list of releases)

Steve Phillips (born 1963) is a baseball analyst and former general manager of the New York Mets.
Steve Phillips may also refer to:

Steve Phillips (writer), American author
Steve Phillips (musician) (born 1948), English blues and country musician
Steve Phillips (footballer, born 1954), English football forward
Steve Phillips (footballer, born 1978), English football goalkeeper
Steven Randy Phillips, better known as Randy Phillips (born 1990), American activist
Steve Phillips (long jumper) (born 1972), British long jumper
Steve Phillips, chief executive officer, Welsh Rugby Union


== See also ==
Stephen Phillips (disambiguation)

North Hartland Dam (National ID # VT00002) is a dam on the Ottauquechee River in Hartland, Windsor County, Vermont.
The earthen dam was constructed between 1958 and 1961 by the United States Army Corps of Engineers, with a height of 182 feet (55 m), and a length of 1,640 feet (500 m) at its crest. It impounds the river for flood control and storm water management.  The dam is owned and operated by the New England District, North Atlantic Division, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.
The riverine reservoir it creates, North Hartland Lake, has a normal water surface of 215 acres (87 ha), a maximum capacity of 94,600 acre-feet (120 million cubic meters), and a much smaller normal capacity of 2,350 acre⋅ft (2.9 million m3).  Recreation includes fishing, swimming and boating in the summer, and winter sports such as snowmobiling, cross country skiing, and snowshoeing.


== References ==

The Union for a New Burkina (French: Union pour un Burkina Nouveau, UBN) is a political party in Burkina Faso.


== History ==
The UBN was formed on 14 February 2015, based on an association established in 2011 following the 2011 Burkinabé protests. Former Minister of Sport Yacouba Ouédraogo was appointed party president. In the 2015 general elections it received 0.86% of the vote, winning one of the constituency seats (Ag Amlaouna Agali in Oudalan Province).
All political parties in Burkina Faso were dissolved through decree by the junta on 29 January 2026.


== References ==

The 2003 National Indoor Football League season was the third season of the National Indoor Football League (NIFL). The league champions were the Ohio Valley Greyhounds, who wrapped up a perfect season by defeating the Utah Warriors in Indoor Bowl III and becoming the first team in league history to win back-to-back titles.


== Standings ==

Green indicates clinched playoff berth
Purple indicates division champion
Grey indicates best conference record


== Playoffs ==
Round 1

Ohio Valley 51, Lexington 42
Lake Charles 44, Houma 19
Omaha 72, Bismarck 49
Utah 68, Sioux Falls 55
Semifinals

Ohio Valley 43, Lake Charles 41
Utah 62, Omaha 51
Indoor Bowl III

Ohio Valley 45, Utah 37


== External links ==
2003 NIFL season stats

Bryan Nicholas Brooke MD, M.Chir.,  (21 February 1915 – 18 September 1998) was a British surgeon and pioneer of surgery for ulcerative colitis.


== Biography ==
The son of numismatist George C. Brooke, after education at Bradfield College, he matriculated at Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, where he graduated BA in 1936. After clinical training at St Bartholomew's Hospital, he qualified MRCS in 1939 and graduated MB BChir in 1940 and MChir in 1944 from the University of Cambridge. He was elected FRCS in 1942 and was chief surgical assistant at St Bartholomew's Hospital. In 1944 he joined the RAMC and served as a lieutenant colonel in charge of a surgical division.
After demobilisation, Brooke spent a year as a senior lecturer in Aberdeen. He joined in 1947 the new professorial surgical unit headed by Alan Stammers at Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham. There, Lionel Hardy, (William) Trevor Cooke, and Clifford Hawkins were keenly interested in testing the newly introduced adherent Koening-Rutzen bag for potential ileostomy patients.

The Birmingham group and a few like minded colleagues were able to show that an ileostomy using the adherent device, combined with staged colectomy and subsequently proctocolectomy, produced outstandingly successful results. Brooke also devised a simple eversion ileostomy, later adopted world wide. His awareness of the problems encountered by his patients led him to found the Ileostomy Association in 1956 and he was the first president.
He received the higher MD from the University of Birmingham in 1954. He was appointed in 1963 the first professor of surgery at St George's Hospital and held that post until 1976.

... his international reputation flourished and he was in steady demand to participate in international meetings and as a visiting professor, especially in America and Australia, where he was elected an honorary fellow of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons in 1977. ... He published several textbooks and numerous articles: his style and use of language were elegant and apposite.
Outside medicine Brooke was a skilled potter, an able painter, and a craftsman carpenter. He designed the altar rails for the local church where his funeral was held. He leaves a wife, Naomi; three daughters; and his companion, Diana, who nursed him throughout his final illness.


== Selected publications ==


=== Articles ===
Inglis JM; Brooke BN (11 August 1956). "Trendelenburg Tilt". Br Med J. 2 (4988): 343–344. doi:10.1136/bmj.2.4988.343. PMC 2035088. PMID 13342485. (See Trendelenburg position.)
Brooke BN (1961). "Malignant change in ulcerative colitis". Diseases of the Colon & Rectum. 4 (6): 393–398. doi:10.1007/BF02616569. PMID 13873443. S2CID 2721432.
Eade MN; Cooke WT; Brooke BN; Thompson, H. (1971). "Liver disease in Crohn's colitis: a study of 21 consecutive patients having colectomy". Annals of Internal Medicine. 74 (4): 518–528. doi:10.7326/0003-4819-74-4-518. PMID 5551160.
Brooke BN (29 January 1972). "Crohn's disease of the large bowel". Br Med J. 1 (5795): 310–311. doi:10.1136/bmj.1.5795.310-c. PMC 1787168.
Cave DR; Mitchell DN; Brooke BN (September 1975). "Experimental animal studies of the etiology and pathogenesis of Crohn's disease". Gastroenterology. 69 (3): 618–624. doi:10.1016/s0016-5085(19)32453-9. PMID 1158079.
Brooke BN (3 November 1979). "Chance acquaintances". Br Med J. 2 (6198): 1130–1131. doi:10.1136/bmj.2.6198.1130. PMC 1596986. PMID 20792969.


=== Books ===
You and your operation. Faber & Faber. 1956.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)
with Geoffrey Slaney: Metabolic derangements in gastrointestinal. Springfield, Illinois: Charles C. Thomas. 1966; 169+xii, illustrated{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: postscript (link)
Understanding Cancer. Holt McDougal. 1973.
as editor with Andrew W. Wilkinson: Inflammatory disease of the bowel – Conference proceedings. Tunbridge Wells: Pitman Medical. 1980. ISBN 978-0272795569.
The troubled gut: causes and consequences of diarrhoea. King Edward's Hospital Fund for London. 1986. ISBN 978-0-19-724635-1; pbk, illustrated; 172 pp.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: postscript (link)


== References ==

Iraq has taken part in every edition of the Islamic Solidarity Games since the first tournament held in Mecca, 2005.
By 2025, data from the Islamic Solidarity Sports Federation shows that Iraqi competitors have secured 57 medals in total — including 14 gold, 24 silver, and 19 bronze.
Overall, Iraq holds the top 14 position in the medal table as off the last Islamic Solidarity Games held in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.


== Medal tables ==


=== Medals by Islamic Solidarity Games ===

  Host nation
Below is the table representing all Iraqi medals in the games.  
Until now, Iraq has won 57 medals (14 gold, 24 silver, and 19 bronze).


== See also ==
Iraq at the Olympics
Iraq at the Paralympics
Iraq at the Asian Games
Iraq at the Arab Games
Sports in Iraq


== References ==

Péter Esterházy (14 April 1950 – 14 July 2016) was a Hungarian writer. He was one of the best known Hungarian and Central European writers of his era. He was called a "leading figure of 20th century Hungarian literature", and his books were considered to be significant contributions to post-war literature.


== Biography ==
Esterházy was born in Budapest on 14 April 1950, the eldest son of Mátyás Esterházy de Galántha (1919–1998) (Count Esterházy until 1947, when all titles and ranks were abolished) and Magdolna Mányoki (1916–1980). His paternal grandfather was Count Móric Esterházy (1881–1960), who briefly served as Prime Minister of Hungary in 1917. Through his paternal grandmother Countess Margit Károlyi (1896–1975), one of his ancestors was Count Gyula Károlyi (1871–1947), also Prime Minister from 1931 to 1932. Péter had three younger brothers, including international football player Márton Esterházy (born 1956).
Esterházy was educated as a mathematician and began to write in the 1970s. He is perhaps best known outside of his native country for Celestial Harmonies (Harmonia Caelestis, 2001) which chronicles his forefathers' epic rise during the Austro-Hungarian empire to their dispossession under communism. His next novel, Revised Edition or Corrected Version (Javított kiadás, 2002), which appeared as an appendix to the former work, deals with his realisation that his father was an informant for the secret police during the communist era.
After the regime change in 1989, Péter Esterházy refused to accept the return of any land or valuables nationalized by the communists.
Many of his other works also deal with the experience of living under a communist regime and in a post-communist country. He wrote in a style that can be characterised as postmodernist and his prose was described by John Updike as "jumpy, allusive, and slangy. ...there is vividness, an electric crackle. The sentences are active and concrete. Physical details leap from the murk of emotional ambivalence". In an obituary published by Reuters, his literary technique is described as "Employing a stop-and-go rhythm, his writing concentrated on twists and surprises rather than straight narrative lines, combining personal experiences with references, quotes and all shades of jokes from sarcasm to toilet humor, sometimes including texts of other authors."
His works have been published in more than 20 languages. He was awarded several literary distinctions in Hungary, including the prestigious Kossuth Prize in 1996, and has received awards for his work in France, Austria, Germany, Slovenia and Poland.
He was highly critical of the authoritarian tendencies of Viktor Orbán's administration, declaring that "Orbán is not a statesman" and that "the Orbán system is damaging to Hungary. Our Democracy is not liberal, freedom of the press is limited, and the division of power is inadequate."
He was married to Margit Reén, and had four children.
In October 2015, it became public knowledge that he was suffering from pancreatic cancer. He died on 14 July 2016.


== Ancestry ==


== Works published in English ==
(The italicized dates refer to original publication, other dates refer to the English-language publications.)

Helping Verbs of the Heart (A szív segédigéi, 1985, 1990, 1991, 1996)
The Transporters (Fuharosok, 1983, 1991, 1994)
The Book of Hrabal (Hrabal könyve, 1990, 1993, 1994, 1996)
The Glance of Countess Hahn-Hahn (Down the Danube) (Hahn-Hahn grófnő pillantása, 1991, 1994, 1998, 1999)
She loves me (Egy nő, 1993, 1994, 1997, 1998)
A Little Hungarian Pornography (Kis Magyar Pornográfia, 1984, 1995, 1997)
Celestial Harmonies: A Novel (Harmonia Caelestis, 2001, 2004)
Not Art (Semmi művészet, 2008, 2010)


== International awards ==
Ordre des Arts et des Lettres, France
Order of Cultural Merit (ro:Ordinul „Meritul Cultural” (România)), Romania
Austrian State Prize for European Literature, Austria
Herder Prize, Austria and Germany
Vilenica Prize, Slovenia
Peace Prize of the German Book Trade, Germany
Angelus Award, Poland
Premio Mondello, Italy
International Masi Grosso d'Oro Veneziano Prize, Italy


== Membership ==
Deutsche Akademie für Sprache und Dichtung (Darmstadt)
Akademie der Künste (Berlin)


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Obituary published in Die Welt (in German)


== Bibliography ==
Tötösy de Zepetnek, Steven (斯蒂文·托托西演). 文学研究的合法化: 一种新实用主义 ·整体化和经主 义文学与文化研究方法 (Legitimizing the Study of Literature: A New Pragmatism and the Systemic Approach to Literature and Culture). Trans. Ma Jui-ch'i (马瑞琪翻). Beijing: Peking University Press, 1997. 111–134.
Tötösy de Zepetnek, Steven. "Cultures, Peripheralities, and Comparative Literature." Comparative Literature: Theory, Method, Application. By Steven Tötösy de Zepetnek. Amsterdam: Rodopi, 1998. 121–175.


== External links ==

Video Interview PEN World Voices at LIVE from the New York Public Library 4 May 2008
A comprehensive record on him in Hungarian Literature Database

The 1976 WHA amateur draft was the fourth draft held by the World Hockey Association.


== Selections by round ==
Below are listed the selections in the 1976 WHA amateur draft.


=== Round 1 ===

The Toronto Toros, New England Whalers and Houston Aeros lost their first round picks for having signed underage juniors in 1975: Toronto for Mark Napier, New England for Gordie Roberts and Houston for John Tonelli.


=== Round 2 ===


=== Round 3 ===


=== Round 4 ===


=== Round 5 ===


=== Round 6 ===


=== Round 7 ===


=== Round 8 ===


=== Round 9 ===


=== Round 10 ===


== Draftees based on nationality ==


== See also ==
1976 NHL Amateur Draft
1976–77 WHA season


== References ==
1976 WHA Amateur Draft on Hockeydb.com

The sexual abuse scandal in the English Benedictine Congregation was a significant episode in the series of Catholic sex abuse cases in the United Kingdom. The dates of the events covered here range from the 1960s to the 2010s.


== Abuse at Benedictine monasteries ==


=== St Benedict's School ===
In April 2006, civil damages were awarded jointly against Dom David Pearce, a former head of the junior school at St Benedict's School, Ealing, and Ealing Abbey in the High Court in relation to an alleged assault by Dom Pearce on a pupil while teaching at the school in the 1990s, although criminal charges were dropped. He was subsequently charged in November 2008 with 24 counts of indecent assault, sexual touching and gross indecency with six boys aged under 16. The counts related to incidents before and after 2003, when the law was changed to create an offence of sexual touching. After admitting his guilt at Isleworth Crown Court to offences dating back to 1972, Pearce was jailed for eight years in October 2009.
The conduct of the Ealing monastic community, as trustee of the St. Benedict's Trust, was examined by the Charity Commission, which found that it had failed to take adequate measures to protect beneficiaries of the charity from Dom Pearce.
In 2011, there was an allegation of cover-up involving Ealing Abbey and abuse towards a female pupil at St Gregory's Roman Catholic Primary School, a state school in Woodfield Road, Ealing, with links to the abbey. The abuse is alleged to have occurred in the 1970s.
In October 2017, Andrew Soper (known as Father Laurence), former abbot of Ealing Abbey, was found guilty on 19 sexual offences against pupils of St Benedict's school in the 1970s and 1980s.


=== Buckfast Abbey ===
Father Paul Couch was jailed for ten years in 2007, on two counts of serious sexual assault and 11 of indecent assault. He had committed the offences against six boys between 1972 and 1993 during two periods at Buckfast Abbey Preparatory School in Devon; he was a Royal Navy chaplain from 1978 until 1983 and again from 1992.
Father William Manahan pleaded guilty in 2007 at Exeter Crown Court to eight charges of sexually assaulting pupils at the same school between 1971 and 1978, and was jailed for 15 months. The school closed in 1994.


=== Ampleforth College ===
In 1995, Fr Bernard Green, then a housemaster at Ampleforth College, was arrested after indecently assaulting a sleeping boy in one of the school's dormitories. He received two years' probation for an incident which was said to have "petrified" the boy concerned.
In 2005, Fr Piers Grant-Ferris admitted 20 incidents between 1966 and 1975 including beating boys bare-handed on the buttocks, and taking temperatures rectally. The Yorkshire Post reported in 2005 that former Abbot Basil Hume did not call in police when the initial incident came to light in 1975, but removed Father Grant-Ferris. Several other incidents came to light in 2003, when the abbey hired a psychologist to conduct risk assessments on staff.


=== Belmont Abbey ===
Father John Kinsey of Belmont Abbey, Herefordshire was sentenced to five years at Worcester Crown Court in 2005 by Judge Andrew Geddes for a series of serious offences relating to assaults on schoolboys attending Belmont Abbey School in the mid-1980s. Due to falling pupil numbers, the school closed in the early 1990s.


=== Douai Abbey ===
David Smith, jailed May 2007, was an assistant housemaster at Douai School, Upper Woolhampton, West Berkshire, from 1975. He sexually abused three boys in one year at the school and continued to sexually abuse as an Anglican priest from 1981, sexually abusing a series of boys over a 30-year period.
Roman Catholic Benedictine monk/priest, Father Michael Creagh was jailed in November 2017 for two counts of child sexual abuse while he was a house master in 1987 at Douai School. He had previous convictions for paedophilic offences, committed elsewhere in the 1970s.
David Lowe, a paedophile and serial sexual abuser, had sexually abused young boys, firstly, at Westminster Cathedral Choir School, London, and, secondly at the Roman Catholic Benedictine Ampleforth College in Yorkshire.  Subsequent to and despite his history, he moved to Douai Abbey. A married man and a father, Lowe was appointed Deputy Headmaster at the school in the 1990s, and there is no suggestion that he sexually abused at Douai. Lowe was jailed for 10 years in 2015 for indecent assaults.
Father Terence Charles Fitzpatrick, Roman Catholic priest/monk of Douai School, whilst he was Roman Catholic parish priest at St Osburg's Roman Catholic church in Coventry, sexually abused a woman, Pamela Brown, between 1989 and 1991. She had psychological issues and approached him for guidance. Fitzpatrick duped her into performing sexual activity "games" under the pretense that they were part of the help she required from him, and stating that the sexual activity was carried out in the name of God. Brown was awarded damages at Birmingham County Court. Fitzpatrick returned to Douai Abbey and continued to serve four Roman Catholic parishes in Berkshire.  
The Douai Abbey school closed in 1999.


=== Downside School ===
In 2004, a Benedictine monk was jailed for 18 months after taking indecent images of schoolboys and possessing child pornography when he was a teacher at Downside School.  In January 2012, Father Richard White, a monk who formerly taught at the school, was jailed for five years for gross indecency and indecent assault against a pupil in the late 1980s.  White, 66, who was known to pupils as Father Nick, had been allowed to continue teaching after he was first caught abusing a child in 1987 and was able to go on to groom and assault another pupil in the junior school. He was placed on a restricted ministry after the second incident, but was not arrested until 2010. Two other Downside monks, also former teachers, received police cautions during an 18-month criminal trial.
In November 2017, the national Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse (IICSA) started to examine evidence of children being targeted for abuse at the school, along with another major Catholic school Ampleforth Abbey, as part of its investigation into the prevalence of paedophilia in the English Benedictine Congregation and its failures in protecting young people over many decades.  IICSA heard that children at the two schools could still be "at risk".  The enquiry heard evidence that in 2012, the then headmaster, Father Leo Maidlow Davis, who was the senior monk at Downside Abbey from 2014 until 2018, made trips with a loaded wheelbarrow to a distant part of its grounds, where he made a bonfire, destroying staff files dating back to the early 1980s that might have contained evidence of child abuse at the school.
Father Charles Fitzgerald-Lombard, abbot of Downside from 1990 to 1998, was among three Downside abbots accused by Father Aidan Bellenger, in a private letter, of tolerating child abuse. Father Aidan, abbot from 2006 to 2014, said his predecessors "protected and encouraged" paedophile monks. Wrongdoers at the school were quietly moved between Benedictine monasteries and parishes.  Reference was made to instructions from Rome to destroy documents that were damaging to priests. Father Leo insisted that his decision to make a bonfire of Downside's staff files was prompted by a desire to "get rid of unnecessary old material". He accepted that the files should, under safeguarding requirements, have been kept for 70 years, conceding that he may have unintentionally destroyed information about child abuse.
As recommended by the IICSA report, a new charitable company was set up for the school in 2019 to separate it from the monastery. In 2020 it was reported that the abbey had sold paintings at auction for over £400,000 to defray legal costs.


=== Worth Abbey ===
Worth Abbey and Worth School were initially created as the preparatory school for Downside. In 1995, Father Andrew Brenninkmeyer was suspended following complaints that he had sexually abused other monks, including Father Jonathan Monckton, who left the monastery in 1987 after no action was taken against Father Brenninkmeyer. Father Moncton was not the only complainant.
In 2001, Father John Bolton was suspended for hugging a boy inappropriately. Father John died on 26 June 2013. The headmaster at the time was Father Christopher Jamison, who is currently Abbot President of the English Benedictine Congregation. On 5 June 2018, the IICSA determined that its case study of the English Benedictine Congregation would not include Worth School and Abbey because the evidence in regard of Downside and Ampleforth is sufficient to address the English Benedictine Congregation.


== References ==

In statistical significance testing, a one-tailed test and a two-tailed test are alternative ways of computing the statistical significance of a parameter inferred from a data set, in terms of a test statistic. A two-tailed test is appropriate if the estimated value is greater or less than a certain range of values, for example, whether a test taker may score above or below a specific range of scores. This method is used for null hypothesis testing and if the estimated value exists in the critical areas, the alternative hypothesis is accepted over the null hypothesis.  
A one-tailed test is appropriate if the estimated value may depart from the reference value in only one direction, left or right, but not both. An example can be whether a machine produces more than one-percent defective products. In this situation, if the estimated value exists in one of the one-sided critical areas, depending on the direction of interest (greater than or less than), the alternative hypothesis is accepted over the null hypothesis. Alternative names are one-sided and two-sided tests; the terminology "tail" is used because the extreme portions of distributions, where observations lead to rejection of the null hypothesis, are small and often "tail off" toward zero as in the normal distribution, colored in yellow, or "bell curve", pictured on the right and colored in green.


== Applications ==
One-tailed tests are used for asymmetric distributions that have a single tail, such as the chi-squared distribution, which are common in measuring goodness-of-fit, or for one side of a distribution that has two tails, such as the normal distribution, which is common in estimating location; this corresponds to specifying a direction. Two-tailed tests are only applicable when there are two tails, such as in the normal distribution, and correspond to considering either direction significant.
In the approach of Ronald Fisher, the null hypothesis H0 will be rejected when the p-value of the test statistic is sufficiently extreme (vis-a-vis the test statistic's sampling distribution) and thus judged unlikely to be the result of chance. This is usually done by comparing the resulting p-value with the specified significance level, denoted by 
  
    
      
        α
      
    
    {\displaystyle \alpha }
  
, when computing the statistical significance of a parameter.  In a one-tailed test, "extreme" is decided beforehand as either meaning "sufficiently small" or meaning "sufficiently large" – values in the other direction are considered not significant. One may report that the left or right tail probability as the one-tailed p-value, which ultimately corresponds to the direction in which the test statistic deviates from H0. In a two-tailed test, "extreme" means "either sufficiently small or sufficiently large", and values in either direction are considered significant. For a given test statistic, there is a single two-tailed test, and two one-tailed tests, one each for either direction. When provided a significance level 
  
    
      
        α
      
    
    {\displaystyle \alpha }
  
, the critical regions would exist on the two tail ends of the distribution with an area of 
  
    
      
        α
        
          /
        
        2
      
    
    {\displaystyle \alpha /2}
  
 each for a two-tailed test. Alternatively, the critical region would solely exist on the single tail end with an area of 
  
    
      
        α
      
    
    {\displaystyle \alpha }
  
 for a one-tailed test. For a given significance level in a two-tailed test for a test statistic, the corresponding one-tailed tests for the same test statistic will be considered either twice as significant (half the p-value) if the data is in the direction specified by the test, or not significant at all (p-value above 
  
    
      
        α
      
    
    {\displaystyle \alpha }
  
) if the data is in the direction opposite of the critical region specified by the test. 
For example, if flipping a coin, testing whether it is biased towards heads is a one-tailed test, and getting data of "all heads" would be seen as highly significant, while getting data of "all tails" would be not significant at all (p = 1). By contrast, testing whether it is biased in either direction is a two-tailed test, and either "all heads" or "all tails" would both be seen as highly significant data. In medical testing, while one is generally interested in whether a treatment results in outcomes that are better than chance, thus suggesting a one-tailed test; a worse outcome is also interesting for the scientific field, therefore one should use a two-tailed test that corresponds instead to testing whether the treatment results in outcomes that are different from chance, either better or worse. In the archetypal lady tasting tea experiment, Fisher tested whether the lady in question was better than chance at distinguishing two types of tea preparation, not whether her ability was different from chance, and thus he used a one-tailed test.


== Coin flipping example ==

In coin flipping, the null hypothesis is a sequence of Bernoulli trials with probability 0.5, yielding a random variable X which is 1 for heads and 0 for tails, and a common test statistic is the sample mean (of the number of heads) 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              X
              ¯
            
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\bar {X}}.}
  
 If testing for whether the coin is biased towards heads, a one-tailed test would be used – only large numbers of heads would be significant. In that case a data set of five heads (HHHHH), with sample mean of 1, has a 
  
    
      
        1
        
          /
        
        32
        =
        0.03125
        ≈
        0.03
      
    
    {\displaystyle 1/32=0.03125\approx 0.03}
  
 chance of occurring, (5 consecutive flips with 2 outcomes - ((1/2)^5 =1/32). This would have 
  
    
      
        p
        ≈
        0.03
      
    
    {\displaystyle p\approx 0.03}
  
 and would be significant (rejecting the null hypothesis) if the test was analyzed at a significance level of 
  
    
      
        α
        =
        0.05
      
    
    {\displaystyle \alpha =0.05}
  
 (the significance level corresponding to the cutoff bound). However, if testing for whether the coin is biased towards heads or tails, a two-tailed test would be used, and a data set of five heads (sample mean 1) is as extreme as a data set of five tails (sample mean 0). As a result, the p-value would be 
  
    
      
        2
        
          /
        
        32
        =
        0.0625
        ≈
        0.06
      
    
    {\displaystyle 2/32=0.0625\approx 0.06}
  
 and this would not be significant (not rejecting the null hypothesis) if the test was analyzed at a significance level of 
  
    
      
        α
        =
        0.05
      
    
    {\displaystyle \alpha =0.05}
  
.


== History ==

The p-value was introduced by Karl Pearson in the Pearson's chi-squared test, where he defined P (original notation) as the probability that the statistic would be at or above a given level. This is a one-tailed definition, and the chi-squared distribution is asymmetric, only assuming positive or zero values, and has only one tail, the upper one. It measures goodness of fit of data with a theoretical distribution, with zero corresponding to exact agreement with the theoretical distribution; the p-value thus measures how likely the fit would be this bad or worse.

The distinction between one-tailed and two-tailed tests was popularized by Ronald Fisher in the influential book Statistical Methods for Research Workers, where he applied it especially to the normal distribution, which is a symmetric distribution with two equal tails. The normal distribution is a common measure of location, rather than goodness-of-fit, and has two tails, corresponding to the estimate of location being above or below the theoretical location (e.g., sample mean compared with theoretical mean). In the case of a symmetric distribution such as the normal distribution, the one-tailed p-value is exactly half the two-tailed p-value:

Some confusion is sometimes introduced by the fact that in some cases we wish to know the probability that the deviation, known to be positive, shall exceed an observed value, whereas in other cases the probability required is that a deviation, which is equally frequently positive and negative, shall exceed an observed value; the latter probability is always half the former.

Fisher emphasized the importance of measuring the tail – the observed value of the test statistic and all more extreme – rather than simply the probability of specific outcome itself, in his The Design of Experiments (1935). He explains this as because a specific set of data may be unlikely (in the null hypothesis), but more extreme outcomes likely, so seen in this light, the specific but not extreme unlikely data should not be considered significant.


== Specific tests ==
If the test statistic follows a Student's t-distribution in the null hypothesis – which is common where the underlying variable follows a normal distribution with unknown scaling factor, then the test is referred to as a one-tailed or two-tailed t-test. If the test is performed using the actual population mean and variance, rather than an estimate from a sample, it would be called a one-tailed or two-tailed Z-test.
The statistical tables for t and for Z provide critical values for both one- and two-tailed tests. That is, they provide the critical values that cut off an entire region at one or the other end of the sampling distribution as well as the critical values that cut off the regions (of half the size) at both ends of the sampling distribution.


== See also ==
Paired difference test, when two samples are being compared


== References ==

Paragorgorhynchus is a genus of worms belonging to the family Rhadinorhynchidae.
Species:

Paragorgorhynchus albertianus Golvan, 1957
Paragorgorhynchus aswanensis Saoud & Wanas, 1990
Paragorgorhynchus chariensis Troncy, 1970


== References ==

Dialium is a genus of flowering plants in the family Fabaceae, subfamily Dialioideae. Velvet tamarind is a common name for several species. The genus includes 37 species which range from the tropical Americas to sub-Saharan Africa, Madagascar, India, Indochina, and western Malesia.


== Species ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Dialium in West African plants – A Photo Guide.
 Media related to Dialium at Wikimedia Commons
 Data related to Dialium at Wikispecies

4-Methylimidazole (4-MeI or 4-MEI) is a heterocyclic organic chemical compound with molecular formula H3C–C3H3N2 or C4H6N2. It is formally derived from imidazole through replacement of the hydrogen in position 4 by a methyl group. It is a slightly yellowish solid.
4-MeI may be formed in the browning of certain foods through the Maillard reaction between carbohydrates and amino-containing compounds. In particular, it is found in roasted foods, grilled meats, coffee and in types of caramel coloring produced with ammonia-based processes. It may arise also by fermentation.


== Preparation and structure ==
4-MeI may be prepared using the Debus-Radziszewski imidazole synthesis, by reacting methylglyoxal with ammonia and formaldehyde. It may also be prepared by the reaction of hydroxyacetone and formamide in ammonia.
Small energy difference separates 4-methylimidazole from its tautomer 5-methylimidazole.


== Safety ==


=== Carcinogenicity studies ===
Concern has arisen about the presence of 4-MeI in caramel color (which is the most-used food and beverage coloring), typically at a concentration between 50 and 700 ppm. Dark beers and common brands of cola drinks may contain more than 100 μg of this compound per 12-ounce serving, i.e. 300ppm.
At very high doses (360 mg/kg of body weight), 4-MeI is a convulsant for rabbits, mice and chicks, and was the likely cause of acute intoxication observed in cattle fed with ammoniated, sugar-containing cattle feed supplements in the 1960s. However, several studies found no ill effect in rats and dogs for the concentrations found in caramel coloring. For an average weighted person (68 kg) to receive a 360 mg/kg dose from consuming dark beer or cola drinks, they would have to consume approximately 244,800 12-oz drinks.
A 2007 study by the United States National Toxicology Program (NTP) examined carcinogenic activity following long-term exposure to 4-Mel, and found clear evidence for lung tumors in mice, limited evidence for increased leukemia in female rats, and no evidence in male rats.


=== Regulatory response ===
The United States Food and Drug Administration has stated that it has "no reason to believe that there is any immediate or short term danger presented by 4-MeI at levels expected in food from the use of caramel coloring". The Agency describes the NTP carcinogenicity study as having been conducted at doses that "far exceed" current estimates of human exposure from the consumption of caramel coloring in foods and soft drinks.   The Agency has stated that it is reviewing current exposure levels but does not recommend consumers change their diets based on concerns about 4-MeI. In response to statements by the Center for Science in the Public Interest that levels of 4-MeI in soft drinks "needlessly expose consumers to a chemical that causes cancer", an FDA spokesperson stated "[a] person would have to drink more than a thousand cans of soda in a day to match the doses administered in studies that showed links to cancer in rodents."
The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) reviewed the safety of caramel colorings in 2011 and revised the previously established Acceptable Daily Intakes for these products for reasons unrelated to 4-MeI exposure. The Administration's review concluded that there is no evidence to show that caramel colors have any adverse effect on human reproduction.  The review further concluded that the highest level of 4-MeI that could result from the consumption of foods containing caramel colors are not of concern.
Health Canada has stated that 4-MeI levels found in foods do not represent a risk.
The Hong Kong Centre for Food Safety has stated that based on levels of 4-MeI found in soft drinks, a person would have to consume over 300 cans of soda each day to reach the doses found to cause cancer in the NFT study, after adjusting for a 100-fold uncertainty factor.
In January 2011, California added 4-MeI to its list of probable carcinogens and stipulated 29 μg per day as the "No Significant Risk Level" intake. Studies have found levels of up to 700 μg per liter in cola soft drinks, up to 1450 μg per liter in coffee, and up to 28,030 μg/liter in dark beer.
The non-profit Center for Science in the Public Interest has petitioned the FDA to require the removal of methylimidazole containing caramel colors from soft drinks.
In March 2012, both The Coca-Cola Company and PepsiCo announced they had their caramel color suppliers modify their manufacturing processes to meet the new California standard; as of the announcement, the changes had already been made for beverages sold in California. The recipe is not changing in Europe, so the 4-MeI level will remain the same. Similarly, Pepsi and some Coke lots sold in the states other than California in the United States contain 4-MeI levels considered safe by the FDA and EFSA, but exceeding California standards. In 2016 PepsiCo lost The Pepsi Carcinogen Class Action Lawsuit Stacy Sciortino, et al. v. Pepsico Inc., Case No. 3:14-cv-00478, in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. This affects all PepsiCo products shipped for sale within the United States.


== See also ==
1-Methylimidazole
2-Methylimidazole


== References ==


== External links ==
"Questions & Answers on Caramel Coloring and 4-MEI". Consumer Info About Additives & Ingredients. Food and Drug Administration. 3 June 2021. Archived from the original on 11 September 2013.

Jordi Martí i Galbis (born 1961) is a politician of the party Together for Catalonia. He has served as a member of the Congress of Deputies (2000–2004), the Provincial Deputation of Barcelona (2017–2019) and the City Council of Barcelona (2011–), and is his party's leader in the last of those bodies since 2024.


== Biography ==
Born in Barcelona, Martí graduated with a law degree from the University of Barcelona. As a member of Convergence and Union (CiU), he was a deputy in the Congress of Deputies for the Barcelona constituency.
In 2011, Martí was elected to the City Council of Barcelona. In the government of mayor Xavier Trias, he was put in charge of the district of Sants-Montjuïc. He had previously been Trias's head of cabinet when the latter was minister of health in the Generalitat de Catalunya in the 1990s.
In 2015, Trias lost control of the city council to Ada Colau. Martí was elected president of the municipal council in the district of Sarrià-Sant Gervasi. When Elsa Artadi resigned in 2022, he replaced her as the spokesperson of Junts in the city council. In July 2024, Trias left politics, and Martí succeeded him as Junts's leader in the city council, with the party in opposition to Jaume Collboni of the Socialists' Party of Catalonia (PSC).


== References ==


== External links ==
Jordi Martí i Galbis at Provincial Deputation of Barcelona

A Wickelphone is a sequence of three letters or symbols, which occur together in a word. For example, the word strip may be decomposed into a set of trigrams such as rip and str — these are Wickelphones. The term was devised by James McClelland and David Rumelhart in reference to the work of Wayne Wickelgren in 1969. Rumelhart and McClelland then extended the idea by expressing the triples in phonetic terms as Wickelfeatures. For example, the Wickelphone tri would correspond to a Wickelfeature of "stop, lateral, vowel".


== References ==

Frank John Hughes (born November 11, 1967) is an American film and television actor. He is best known for his portrayals of "Wild Bill" Guarnere in the HBO miniseries Band of Brothers, Tom Fox in Catch Me If You Can, Tim Woods in 24, and Walden Belfiore in The Sopranos.


== Career ==
After numerous stage productions, Hughes worked steadily in the New York independent film scene making his feature film debut in Robert Celestino's True Convictions. Since then, he has appeared in nearly one hundred films and TV shows.
His TV credits include Law & Order, Homicide: Life on the Streets, as Charley O'Banion in Dick Wolf's Players for NBC opposite Ice T; Boomtown, Monk, LAX, Curb Your Enthusiasm, as Tim Woods in seasons 7 and 8 of 24; and as Walden Belfiore in the final season of HBO's The Sopranos.
His film credits include Michael Bay's Bad Boys, starring Martin Lawrence and Wil Smith; the Sundance Film Festival hit Mr. Vincent; Able Ferrara's The Funeral; Steven Spielberg's Catch Me if You Can, where he starred opposite Tom Hanks and Leonardo DiCaprio; the Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg, Emmy Award-winning HBO mini-series Band of Brothers, where he received worldwide acclaim for his performance as Wild Bill Guarnere. He appeared in Scott Thomas's 2001 Deranged aka Anacardium as "Rich".
In 2011, Hughes wrote and co-starred with Rick Gomez in the film Leave and also wrote 2012's The Dark Tourist starring Michael Cudlitz and Melanie Griffith. 
In 2021, Hughes portrayed Frank Sinatra in the Paramount+ series The Offer, directed by Dexter Fletcher, and went on to appear in 2024's The Featherweight, produced by Leonardo DiCaprio's Appian Way and starring James Madio, which premiered at the Venice Film Festival.
In 2013, Hughes' script Pox Americana broke the top ten on the prestigious Black List, resulting in a two-picture deal with Warner Brothers.


=== Filmography ===


==== Television ====
As actor

Other appearances include: Cover Me, Law & Order, Homicide: Life on the Street, Feds, Without a Trace, Monk, Boomtown, Kings of South Beach, Curb Your Enthusiasm, JAG, The Path to 9/11, Law & Order: Criminal Intent, NCIS, and Criminal Minds.


==== Video game ====


== References ==


== External links ==

Frank John Hughes at IMDb

I, Partridge: We Need to Talk About Alan is a 2011 mock autobiography as written by the British comedy character Alan Partridge. It was written by Steve Coogan, Armando Iannucci and Rob and Neil Gibbons. An audiobook version recorded by Coogan as Partridge was released on CD and downloadable audio formats.
Coogan said: "We just wanted to do what he would do in trying to write his autobiography. He wants to make his life more than unremarkable, so every single event in his life he tries to spin into something it's not. There was an argument between his parents about tax returns that he tries to turn into some kind of nightmare childhood - as if it was torturous for him and he was scarred by it."
The Independent described the book as "an acutely observed mock-memoir" and the Daily Telegraph said that "The index to I, Partridge is one of the top five indexes of all time." The book received positive reviews and became a bestseller. Coogan appeared as Partridge to promote the book on The Jonathan Ross Show on 1 October 2011.
A second autobiography, Alan Partridge: Nomad, was released in 2016, and a third, Big Beacon: A Lighthouse Rebuilt, a Broadcaster Reborn, followed in 2023.


== References ==

The Cikarang Loop Line (formerly Bekasi Line and Cikarang Line), officially the Cikarang Commuter Line, is a commuter rail line in Jakarta, Indonesia which is operated by PT Kereta Commuter Indonesia (KCI). The line connects Kampung Bandan station in North Jakarta and Cikarang station in Cikarang, Bekasi Regency, West Java. On maps and diagrams, the line is shown using the color "blue" ( ). Jakarta Kota–Cikarang is the extension of previously Jakarta Kota–Bekasi line which connects to Cikarang since 8 October 2017.
As of 2015, the line is the third-busiest line in the KA Commuter system, after red line and yellow line.
Before 28 May 2022, there used to be two routes operating between Jakarta Kota and Bekasi. One serves via Manggarai and other one via Pasar Senen. Line and stations between Jakarta Kota and Manggarai were shared with the Jakarta Kota–Bogor line.
KAI Commuter announced on 21 May 2022 that the line will be renamed as Cikarang Loop Line with new abbreviation (C) by 28 May 2022, as part of Manggarai station upgrade. The line ceased operating to Jakarta Kota and no longer serves Jakarta Kota–Manggarai segment, which is served exclusively by the Bogor Line. Trains from Bekasi or Cikarang arriving at Jatinegara now continue through city loop previously used by Loop Line, clockwise or counterclockwise, and then return to Bekasi or Cikarang. Several trains end their journey at Angke or Kampung Bandan without looping. In response to passenger congestion at Manggarai, a feeder service serving Manggarai–Angke/Kampung Bandan portion of the line was introduced on 30 May 2022 to minimise waiting time.


== Route patterns ==


=== Main line ===
There are eight main service patterns of the line.


=== Jakarta Kota branch line ===
In addition, there are two minority services serving Jakarta Kota that only operates at certain times outside of rush hour (such as midnight and early hours) and is not officially acknowledged on the map.

Note: Pasar Senen is one-way only for counterclockwise trains heading towards Kampung Bandan or Jakarta Kota. Train heading towards Bekasi or Cikarang does not stop at this station regardless of which service pattern it belongs to.


== Stations ==


=== Main line ===


=== Jakarta Kota branch line ===
While not officially shown in maps, there are some trains from Cikarang or Bekasi operating to Jakarta Kota via Pasar Senen (vice versa) in revenue service. This was arranged in order to maintain regular exchange of rollingstock with other lines. The branch line operate outside peak hours, such as midnight or early hours.


== Rolling stock ==


== Accidents and incidents ==
On 27 April 2026, a former Tokyo Metro 6000 series trainset (no. 6024F) traveling as Cikarang Line train no. 5568 was struck from behind by Argo Bromo Anggrek train no. 4 bound for Surabaya Pasar Turi at Bekasi Timur station. The 5568 train was due to depart but put into halt after a SFC120-V series trainset running as train no.5181 from opposite direction struck a Green SM taxi cab on a level crossing nearby. KA 4's CC206 locomotive crushed half of the last coach of the 5568 train. Sixteen people were killed, while 91 others were injured.


=== Pre-2011 route and services reform ===
On 27 June 1928, a Westinghouse EMU of the State Electric Railway (then still under Dutch East Indies colonial rule) from the direction of Kemayoran station overran the terminating tracks of Batavia Noord station, hitting a horse-drawn carriage on the road beside the station. No human casualty reported 
On 18 July 2007, a KRL Holec train trainset no. KL3-97228F running KA 423 (Economy) bound for Jakarta Kota was hit from behind by a locomotive being sent to Pasar Senen to carry KA 120 Jayabaya while stopping at Pondokjati station. No injury reported. The KRL set was able to continue its journey without further incident. 
On 30 October 2008,  a former Toei 6000 set number 6181F train bound for Jakarta Kota via Pasar Senen variant of the line (at the time being the main route for this line) as KA 421 AC Economy class train was hit from behind by Antaboga 1001 freight train on a track segment between Kemayoran and Kampung Bandan stations. 


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
KRL Jabotabek website Archived 2021-04-13 at the Wayback Machine (in Indonesian)
Jabotabek Railnews (in Japanese)
KRL Jabodetabek (in Japanese)
KRL-Mania – KRL Jabotabek community site (in Indonesian)

Banksia speciosa, commonly known as the showy banksia, is a species of large shrub or small tree in the family Proteaceae. It is found on the south coast of Western Australia between Hopetoun (34° S 120° E) and Point Culver (33° S 124° E), growing on white or grey sand in shrubland. Reaching up to 8 m (26 ft) in height, it is a single-stemmed plant that has thin leaves with prominent triangular 'teeth' along each margin, which are 20–45 cm (7.9–17.7 in) long and 2–4 cm (0.8–1.6 in) wide. The prominent cream-yellow flower spikes known as inflorescences appear throughout the year. As they age they develop up to 20 follicles each that store seeds until opened by fire. Though widely occurring, the species is highly sensitive to dieback and large populations of plants have succumbed to the disease.
Collected and described by Robert Brown in the early 19th century, B. speciosa is classified in the series Banksia within the genus. Its closest relative is B. baxteri. B. speciosa plants are killed by bushfire, and regenerate from seed. The flowers attract nectar- and insect-feeding birds, particularly honeyeaters, and a variety of insects. In cultivation, B. speciosa grows well in a sunny location on well-drained soil in areas with dry summers. It cannot be grown in areas with humid summers, though it has been grafted onto Banksia serrata or B. integrifolia.


== Description ==

B. speciosa grows as a shrub or small tree anywhere from 1 to 6 or rarely 8 m (4–26 ft) high. It has an open many-branched habit, arising from a single stem or trunk with smooth grey bark. Unlike many banksias, it does not have a lignotuber. The plant puts on new growth, which is covered in rusty-coloured fur, in summer. The long thin leaves are linear, 20–45 cm (8–17.5 in) long and 2–4 cm (0.8–1.6 in) wide. They are bordered with 20 to 42 prominent triangular lobes that have a zigzag pattern. The lobes are 1–2 cm (0.4–0.8 in) long and 1–2.5 cm (0.4–1.0 in) wide, while the V-shaped sinuses between intrude almost to the midrib of the leaf. The leaf margins are slightly recurved. On the underside of each lobe, there are 3–10 nerves converging on the lobe apex. The midrib is raised on the leaf undersurface; it is covered with white hair when new but brownish hair when mature.
The cream to yellow flower spikes, known as inflorescences, can appear at any time of year. They arise on the ends of one- or two-year-old stems and are roughly cylindrical in shape with a domed apex, measuring 4–12 cm (1.6–4.7 in) high and 9–10 cm (3.5–3.9 in) wide at anthesis. Each is a compound flowering structure, with a large number of individual flowers arising out of a central woody axis. A field study on the southern sandplains revealed an average count of 1369±79 on each spike. The perianth is grey-cream in bud, maturing to a more yellow or cream. The style is cream and the tip of the pollen-presenter maroon. Ageing spikes are grey, with old flowers remaining on them, and develop up to 20 large red follicles each. Roughly oval and jutting out prominently from the spike, each follicle is 3.5–5 cm (1.4–2.0 in) long by 2–3 cm (0.8–1 in) wide and 2–3 cm (0.8–1 in) high and is covered in dense fur, red-brown initially before aging to grey. It remains closed until opened by bushfire, and contains one or two viable seeds.
The seed is 3.7–4.5 cm (1.5–1.8 in) long and fairly flattened, and is composed of the seed body proper, measuring  1–1.4 cm (0.4–0.6 in) long and 0.9–1.2 cm (0.4–0.5 in) wide, and a papery wing. One side, termed the outer surface, is grey and the other is dark brown; on this side the seed body protrudes and is covered with tiny filaments. The seeds are separated by a dark brown seed separator that is roughly the same shape as the seeds with a depression where the seed body sits adjacent to it in the follicle. It measures 3.7–4.5 cm (1.5–1.8 in) long and 2–2.5 cm (0.8–1.0 in) wide. The dull green cotyledons of seedlings are wider than they are long, measuring 1.4–1.5 cm (0.55–0.59 in) across and 1.2–1.3 cm (0.47–0.51 in) long, described by Alex George as "broadly obovate". Each cotyledon has a 2 mm (0.08 in) auricle at its base and has three faint nerve-like markings on its lower half. The hypocotyl is smooth and red. The seedling leaves emerge in an opposite arrangement and are deeply serrated into three triangular lobes on each side. The seedling stem is covered in white hair.
A variant from the Gibson area has an upright habit and leaves. Otherwise, B. speciosa shows little variation across its range. Combined with its vigour and prominence in its habitat, this has led George to speculate that it is a recent development among its relatives.
Banksia baxteri resembles B. speciosa and co-occurs with it at the western edge of B. speciosa's range, but has shorter, wider leaves with larger lobes, shorter flower spikes and is a smaller, more open shrub.


== Taxonomy ==

The first botanical collector of this species may well have been Claude Riche, naturalist to Bruni d'Entrecasteaux's 1791 expedition in search of the lost ships of Jean-François de Galaup, comte de La Pérouse. During a visit to Esperance Bay, Riche explored an area in which B. speciosa is extremely common. However, he got lost and was forced to abandon his collections. The species was eventually collected by Robert Brown in 1802, and published by him in 1810. Alex George selected an 1802 specimen collected at Lucky Bay to be the lectotype in 1981. An early common name was handsome banksia. Common names include showy banksia and ricrac banksia, from the zigzag shape of its long thin leaves.
Robert Brown recorded 31 species of Banksia in his 1810 work Prodromus Florae Novae Hollandiae et Insulae Van Diemen, and in his taxonomic arrangement, placed the taxon in the subgenus Banksia verae, the "True Banksias", because the inflorescence is a typical Banksia flower spike. By the time Carl Meissner published his 1856 arrangement of the genus, there were 58 described Banksia species. Meissner divided Brown's Banksia verae, which had been renamed Eubanksia by Stephan Endlicher in 1847, into four series based on leaf properties. He placed B. speciosa in the series Dryandroideae.
George Bentham published a thorough revision of Banksia in his landmark publication Flora Australiensis in 1870. In Bentham's arrangement, the number of recognised Banksia species was reduced from 60 to 46. Bentham defined four sections based on leaf, style and pollen-presenter characters. B. speciosa was placed in section Orthostylis.
In 1891, German botanist Otto Kuntze challenged the generic name Banksia L.f., on the grounds that the name Banksia had previously been published in 1775 as Banksia J.R.Forst & G.Forst, referring to the genus now known as Pimelea. Kuntze proposed Sirmuellera as an alternative, republishing B. speciosa as Sirmuellera speciosa. The challenge failed, and Banksia L.f. was formally conserved.


=== Current placement ===

Alex George published a new taxonomic arrangement of Banksia in his classic 1981 monograph The genus Banksia L.f. (Proteaceae). Endlicher's Eubanksia became B. subg. Banksia, and was divided into three sections. B. speciosa was placed in B. sect. Banksia, and this was further divided into nine series, with B. speciosa placed in B. ser. Banksia.
He thought its closest relative was clearly Banksia baxteri based on their similar appearance, noting the two overlapped in their distribution.
Kevin Thiele and Pauline Ladiges published a new arrangement for the genus in 1996; their morphological cladistic analysis yielded a cladogram significantly different from George's arrangement. Thiele and Ladiges' arrangement retained B. speciosa in series Banksia, placing it in B. subser. Cratistylis along with  B. baxteri as its sister taxon and seven other Western Australian species. This arrangement stood until 1999, when George effectively reverted to his 1981 arrangement in his monograph for the Flora of Australia series. B. speciosa's placement within Banksia according to Flora of Australia is as follows:

Genus Banksia
Subgenus Banksia
Section Banksia
Series Banksia
B. serrata
B. aemula
B. ornata
B. baxteri
B. speciosa
B. menziesii
B. candolleana
B. sceptrum
In 2002, a molecular study by Austin Mast again showed B. speciosa and B. baxteri to be each other's closest relatives, but they were only distantly related to other members of the series Banksia. Instead, their next closest relative turned out to be the distinctive Banksia coccinea.
Mast, Eric Jones and Shawn Havery published the results of their cladistic analyses of DNA sequence data for Banksia in 2005. They inferred a phylogeny greatly different from the accepted taxonomic arrangement, including finding Banksia to be paraphyletic with respect to Dryandra. A new taxonomic arrangement was not published at the time, but early in 2007 Mast and Thiele initiated a rearrangement by transferring Dryandra to Banksia, and publishing B. subg. Spathulatae for the species having spoon-shaped cotyledons; in this way they also redefined the autonym B. subg. Banksia. They foreshadowed publishing a full arrangement once DNA sampling of Dryandra was complete. In the meantime, if Mast and Thiele's nomenclatural changes are taken as an interim arrangement, then B. speciosa is placed in B. subg. Banksia.


== Distribution and habitat ==

B. speciosa occurs on coastal dunes and sandplains in the Esperance Plains and Mallee biogeographic regions on the south coast of Western Australia, from East Mount Barren in the Fitzgerald River National Park and the vicinity of Hopetoun eastwards to Israelite Bay, generally within 50 km (30 mi) of the coast. The range extends inland to Mount Ragged and 25 km (16 mi) southwest of Grass Patch. There is an outlying population to the east at Point Culver on the Great Australian Bight.
B. speciosa grows on flat or gently sloping ground on deep white or grey sand. It is often the dominant shrub in shrubland, commonly found with such species as Lambertia inermis, Banksia pulchella, and B. petiolaris.


== Ecology ==
The prominent flower spikes are visited by many birds and insects. Honeyeaters are common visitors, particularly the New Holland honeyeater, as well as the fuscous honeyeater, western wattlebird and western spinebill. Other birds recorded foraging include the grey butcherbird and species of thornbill. Insects recorded include ants, bees, wasps, butterflies, moths, flies and beetles. The short-billed black cockatoo breaks off old cones with follicles to eat the seed, often doing so before the seed is ripe.
B. speciosa is serotinous, that is, it has an aerial seed bank in its canopy in the form of the follicles of the old flower spikes. These are opened by fire and release seed in large numbers, which germinate and grow after rain. Seed can last for many years; old spikes 11 to 12 years old have been found to have 50% viable seed. Flower spikes appear to have similar numbers of follicles regardless of the age of the parent plant. Young plants begin flowering three years after regenerating from bushfire and store progressively larger numbers of old flowerheads (and hence seed) in the canopy. In one study, decade-old plants averaged around 3.5 old cones, whereas 21-year-old plants had 105, and were calculated as having over 900 viable seeds per plant. Plants appear to have a life span of at least 40 years, as healthy and vigorous individuals of this age are known. An experimental burn and monitoring of resultant seedling germination and growth showed B. speciosa seeds, though numerous, had poor rates of establishment but that seedlings were able to access water more easily and had higher rates of survival after two years than co-occurring Banksia species. Though this suggested B. speciosa might outcompete its conspecifics, the authors of the study noted that there could be other factors not accounted for in its natural environment.
B. speciosa is extremely sensitive to dieback caused by Phytophthora cinnamomi and numbers in Cape Le Grand and Cape Arid National Parks have been drastically reduced as whole populations of plants have perished after exposure. It is an indicator species for the presence of the disease. Nursery plants in Italy perished from root and basal stem rot from the pathogen Phytophthora taxon niederhauserii.
The tiny sac fungus Phyllachora banksiae subspecies westraliensis has been described from the leaves of B. speciosa, its sole host. This fungus manifests as round flat cream-coloured spots around 1–3 mm in diameter on the upper leaf surface. The surrounding leaf tissue is sometimes discoloured orange. One or two shiny black fruit bodies measuring around 0.25–0.75 by 0.25–1 mm appear in the centre of the spots.


== Cultivation ==
A fast-growing and attractive plant, B. speciosa grows readily in a sunny location in dry climates on well-drained soil, but does poorly in areas of humid summer climate, such as Australia's east coast. It has been grafted successfully onto Banksia serrata and B. integrifolia to enable cultivation in these areas. Seeds do not require any treatment, and take 27 to 41 days to germinate. A specimen flowered in a greenhouse in the Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh in 1830. B. speciosa is an important cut flower crop. It was one of several species considered for commercial cropping in Tenerife, and trials showed that seedlings were moderately tolerant to salinity.


== References ==


== External links ==

 Works related to Transactions of the Linnean Society of London/Volume 10/On the Proteaceae of Jussieu/Banksia#Banksia speciosa at Wikisource
 Works related to  Flora Australiensis/Volume 5/Proteaceae/Banksia#Banksia speciosa at Wikisource
"Banksia speciosa R.Br". Flora of Australia Online. Department of the Environment and Heritage, Australian Government. Archived from the original on 1 January 2016.

Larry Cunningham (13 February 1938 – 28 September 2012) was an Irish country music singer, who was one of the leading figures of the showband scene in the 1960s and 1970s. Cunningham accomplished a series of "firsts" during his career. In 1964, Cunningham broke into the British charts with "Tribute to Jim Reeves", the first time an Irish artist had done such a thing.


== Biography ==
Cunningham grew up in the townland of Clooneen in Mullinalaghta parish, near Granard, County Longford, in a farming family of seven children. After leaving school at 16 he went to England and worked as a carpenter, playing Irish traditional music and gaelic football during his spare time. In 1958 he returned to Ireland. Still working as a carpenter, he soon joined the part-time Gowna-based Grafton Showband, but left it in 1961 to become fully professional as the lead singer of the Mighty Avons, based in Cavan. That band initially specialised in covers of Jim Reeves songs and similar country material.
The band's first taste of fame came when they were supporting Jim Reeves during the Irish leg of his European tour in 1963; when Reeves walked off the stage during a concert in Lifford in protest at the poor condition of the supplied piano, the Avons (as they later became popularly called) took over and entertained the crowd, to much subsequent publicity and acclaim.
In December 1964, Cunningham and the Mighty Avons had a Top-10 hit with the song "Tribute to Jim Reeves", which also entered the British charts (the first time for an Irish artiste), and played on Top of the Pops (also an Irish first), which further boosted their career. Their major hit was "Lovely Leitrim" in September 1965, which stayed at number one in the charts for four weeks. As well as regularly touring Ireland to large crowds, the Avons made many appearances on television, and often played in Britain, the US, and other places.
In late 1969, he left the Mighty Avons and merged with Edenderry band The Fairways to form Larry Cunningham and the Country Blue Boys, leaving Gene Stuart to front the Avons. Cunningham continued having success with his new band, but after his marriage in 1972 he gave up regular touring in favour of occasional concerts and recording. He continued to have top-10 hits until the mid-1970s, and still performed occasionally for the remainder of his life. In recent years, audio and video compilations of his music have been released, as well as a biography.
In February 1972, Cunningham married Beatrice Nannery, who worked for him managing a supermarket which he owned. They had four children and two grandchildren. He died on 28 September 2012, following a long period of illness.


== Discography ==
Cunningham and his bands have released the following recordings:


=== Singles ===


=== Albums ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Amine Boukhlouf (Arabic: أمين بوخلوف; born 30 January 1984) is an Algerian footballer. He currently plays for USM Annaba in the Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1.


== Club career ==
In 2010, Boukhlouf was a member of the CA Batna team that reached the final of the 2009–10 Algerian Cup. In the final, Boukhlouf started the match as they were defeated 3–0 by ES Sétif.


== International career ==
In January 2005, Boukhlouf was called up to the Algerian Under-23 National Team for a friendly tournament in Doha, Qatar. In April, he was also of the team at the 2005 Islamic Solidarity Games in Saudi Arabia. In total, he made 6 appearances for the Under-23 team.


== Honours ==
Finalist of the Algerian Cup once with CA Batna in 2009–10 Algerian Cup


== References ==


== External links ==
DZFoot Profile
Amine Boukhlouf at Soccerway

License proliferation is the phenomenon of an abundance of already existing and the continued creation of new software licenses for software and software packages in the FOSS ecosystem. License proliferation affects the whole FOSS ecosystem negatively by the burden of increasingly complex license selection, license interaction, and license compatibility considerations.


== Impact ==
Often when a software developer would like to merge portions of different software programs they are unable to do so because the licenses are incompatible. When software under two different licenses can be merged into a larger software work, the licenses are said to be compatible. As the number of licenses increases, the probability that a free and open-source software (FOSS) developer will want to merge software that are available under incompatible licenses increases. There is also a greater cost to companies that wish to evaluate every FOSS license for software packages that they use. Strictly speaking, no one is in favor of license proliferation. Rather, the issue stems from the tendency for organizations to write new licenses in order to address real or perceived needs for their software releases.


== License compatibility ==
License proliferation is especially a problem when licenses have only limited or complicated license compatibility relationships with other licenses. Therefore, some consider compatibility with the widely used GNU General Public License (GPL) an important characteristic, for instance David A. Wheeler as also the Free Software Foundation (FSF), who maintains a list of the licenses that are compatible with the GPL. On the other hand, some recommend permissive licenses, instead of copyleft licenses, due to the better compatibility with more licenses. The Apache Foundation for instance criticizes the fact that while the Apache License is compatible with the copyleft GPLv3, the GPLv3 is not compatible with the permissive Apache license — Apache software can be included in GPLv3 software but not vice versa. As another relevant example, the GPLv2 is by itself not compatible with the GPLv3. The 2007 released GPLv3 was criticized by several authors for adding another incompatible license in the FOSS ecosystem.


== Vanity licenses ==
A vanity license is a license that is written by a company or person for no other reason than to write their own license ("NIH syndrome"). If a new license is created that has no obvious improvement or difference over another more common FOSS license it can often be criticized as a vanity license. As of 2008, many people create a custom new license for their newly released program, without knowing the requirements for a FOSS license and without realizing that using a nonstandard license can make that program almost useless to others.


== Solution approaches ==


=== GitHub's stance ===
In July 2013, GitHub started a license selection wizard called choosealicense. GitHub's choosealicense frontpage offers as a quick selection only three licenses: the MIT License, the Apache License and the GNU General Public License. Some additional licenses are offered on subpages and via links. Following in 2015, approx. 77% of all licensed projects on GitHub were licensed under at least one of these three licenses.


=== Google's stance ===
From 2006 Google Code only accepted projects licensed under the following seven licenses:

Apache License 2.0
New BSD License
MIT License
GNU General Public License 2.0
GNU Lesser General Public License 2.1
Mozilla Public License 1.1
Artistic License/GPL dual-licensed (often used by the Perl community)
One year later, around 2008, the GNU General Public License 3.0 was added and strongly recommended together with the permissive Apache license, notably excluded was the AGPLv3 to reduce license proliferation.
In 2010, Google removed these restrictions, and announced that it would allow projects to use any OSI-approved license (see OSI's stance below), but with the limitation that public domain projects are only allowed on a case-by-case basis.


=== OSI's stance ===
Open Source Initiative (OSI) maintains a list of approved licenses. Early in its history, the OSI contributed to license proliferation by approving vanity and non-reusable licenses. In 2004 an OSI License Proliferation Project was started. It prepared a License Proliferation Report in 2007. The report defined classes of licenses:

Licenses that are popular and widely used or with strong communities
International licenses
Special purpose licenses
Other/Miscellaneous licenses
Licenses that are redundant with more popular licenses
Non-reusable licenses
Superseded licenses
Licenses that have been voluntarily retired
Uncategorized Licenses
The group of "popular" licenses include nine licenses: Apache License 2.0, New BSD license, GPLv2, LGPLv2, MIT license, Mozilla Public License 1.1, Common Development and Distribution License, Common Public License, Eclipse Public License.


=== FSF's stance ===
Richard Stallman, former president of Free Software Foundation, and Bradley M. Kuhn, former Executive Director, have argued against license proliferation since 2000, when they instituted the FSF license list, which urges developers to license their software under GPL-compatible free software license(s), though multiple GPL-incompatible free software licenses are listed with a comment stating that there is no problem using and/or working on a piece of software already under the licenses in question while also urging readers of the list not to use those licenses on software they write.
Ciarán O'Riordan of FSF Europe argues that the main thing that the FSF can do to prevent license proliferation is to reduce the reasons for making new licenses in the first place, in an editorial entitled How GPLv3 tackles license proliferation. Generally the FSF Europe consistently recommends the use of the GNU GPL as much as possible, and when that is not possible, to use GPL-compatible licenses.


=== Others ===
In 2005 Intel has voluntarily retracted their Intel Open Source License from the OSI list of open source licenses and has also ceased to use or recommend this license to reduce license proliferation.
In June 2009, the 451group created a proliferation report called The Myth of Open Source License Proliferation.
A 2009 paper from the University of Washington School of Law titled Open Source License Proliferation: Helpful Diversity or Hopeless Confusion? called for three things as a solution: "A Wizzier Wizzard" (for license selection), "Best Practices and Legacy Licenses", "More Legal Services For Hackers".
The OpenSource Software Collaboration Counseling (OSSCC) recommends, based on the originally nine recommended OSI licenses, five licenses: the Apache License 2.0, New BSD License, CDDL, MIT license, and to some degree the MPL, as they support collaboration, grant patent use and offer patent protection. Notably missing is the GPL as "this license cannot be used inside other works under a different license."


== See also ==
License compatibility
Rights Expression Language


== References ==


== External links ==
Open source license proliferation, a broader view by Raymond Nimmer
Larry Rosen argues that different licenses can be a good thing Larry Rosen
Licensing howto by Eric S. Raymond
License proliferation for Medical Software by Fred Trotter Advocates that for Health Software, only the Google seven should be used.
How to choose a license for your own work Free Software Foundation

Ithu Namma Veedu (This is our house) is a 2017 Singaporean Tamil-language comedy-drama starring Narain, Udhaya, Jayaram, Kokila, Leena, Lingam and Iliyash. It replaced Iruvar and it broadcast on MediaCorp Vasantham  from 3 April 2017 to 29 June 2017 for 47 episodes.


== Plot ==
It is a comedy drama about three family, A comedy riot ensued when Ajith (Narain), a successful self-made tycoon, opens an old age home in which the seniors live in comfort and luxury. Gayu (Udhaya) is a bubbly girl who tries her best to impress the guy of her dreams. Avinash (Jayaram), Ajith Cousin who is wildly jealous of Ajith good life and Avinash love Gayathiri but Gayathiri Love Ajith.


== Cast ==
Main cast

Supporting Cast


== Original soundtrack ==


=== Title song ===
It was written by lyricist Parthiban Seetharaman, sung by Rita K.G Ranjith.


=== Soundtrack ===


== Background score ==
Composed by Vicknesh Saravanan.


== Broadcast ==
Series was released on 3 April 2017 on Mediacorp Vasantham. It aired in Singapore and Malaysia on Mediacorp Vasantham, Its full length episodes and released its episodes on their app Toggle.


== Awards ==
Pradhana Vizha 2018
Best Actor in a Comedy Role - Jayaram


== References ==


== External links ==
Vasantham Official Website Toggle

The 2005 Moscow Victory Day Parade was a military parade which took place in Red Square in Moscow on 9 May 2005 to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the capitulation of Nazi Germany in 1945. The parade was inspected by the Minister of Defence Sergei Ivanov and it was commanded by Moscow Military District Commander General of the Army Ivan Efremov. Music was performed by the Massed Bands of the Moscow Garrison directed by Colonel Valery Khalilov on his 3rd national parade, the first to include 4 international marching bands. After the inspection of the troops, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin gave his 6th-holiday address to the nation. More than 150 foreign dignitaries (included 50 heads of state) were presented. Among them were Secretary General of the United Nations Kofi Annan, European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso, UNESCO Director General Koichiro Matsuura, President of the United States George W. Bush, President of the People's Republic of China Hu Jintao, Japanese Prime Minister Junichirō Koizumi, French President Jacques Chirac, Chancellor of Germany Gerhard Schroeder, President of Kazakhstan Nursultan Nazarbayev and President of Turkmenistan Saparmurat Niyazov. It was the largest parade in the history of Russia, and one of the largest in the world's history.


== Parade ==
This was the last time veterans took part directly as participants. This time through, reenacting the motorized infantry of the original 1945 parade mobile column, many veterans of the fronts rode in the very trucks which carried infantry to the front lines of the war, arranged accordingly by the fronts they took part at war's end. Veterans from nations such as North Korea and Turkmenistan took part in the parade alongside their Russian counterparts.


=== Troops participating in the parade ===
Following the parade commander's car the parade marched past the saluting grandstand in the following order,

Corps of Drums of the Moscow Military Music School
Color Guard of the Victory Banner, the Flag of Russia, and the Armed Forces Colour from the 1st Honor Guard Battalion of the 154th Independent Commandant's Regiment
Historical Unit
Infantry of the Red Army
Tank forces
Artillery
Engineering formations
Reconnaissance and commando formations
K-9 units of NKVD
Soviet Air Force
Soviet Navy
1st Cavalry Squadron, Presidential Cavalry Escort Battalion, Kremlin Regiment
Red Army Veterans in military trucks, arranged in the fronts in order of the 1945 Victory Parade
Karelian
Leningrad
1st Baltic
3rd Belorussian
2nd Belorussian
1st Belorussian
1st Ukrainian
4th Ukrainian
2nd Ukrainian
3rd Ukrainian
Combined Arms Academy of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation
Peter the Great Military Academy of the Strategic Missile Forces
Military University of the Ministry of Defense of the Russian Federation
Military Engineering Academy
Military University of Radiation, Chemical and Biological Defense named after Marshal Timoshenko
Gagarin Air Force Academy
Military Aviation Technical University named after NE Zhukovsky
Baltic Naval Institute
Civil Defence Academy of the Ministry of Emergency Situation
Moscow Military Institute of the Federal Border Service of the Russian Federation
Ryazan Higher Airborne Command School
331st Guards Parachute Regiment, 98th Guards Airborne Division
Internal Troops of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia
336th Guards Naval Infantry Brigade of the Baltic Fleet
Suvorov Military School
Nakhimov Naval School
Moscow Higher Military Command School


=== Music ===
The music and marches were played by the Military Band of the Armed Forces of Russia under the direction of Colonel Valery Khalilov

Inspection and address
March of the Preobrazhensky Regiment (Марш Преображенского Полка)
Slow March of the Tankmen (Встречный Марш Танкистов) by Semyon Tchernetsky
Slow March to Carry the War Flag (Встречный Марш для выноса Боевого Знамени) by Dmitriy Valentinovich Kadeyev
Slow March of the Guards of the Navy (Гвардейский Встречный Марш Военно-Морского Флота) by Nikolai Pavlocich Ivanov-Radkevich
Slow March of the Officers Schools (Встречный Марш офицерских училищ) by Semyon Tchernetsky
Slow March (Встречный Марш) by Dmitry Pertsev
Slow March of the Red Army (Встречный Марш Красной Армии) by Semyon Tchernetsky
March of the Preobrazhensky Regiment (Марш Преображенского Полка)
Glory (Славься) by Mikhail Glinka
Parade Fanfare All Listen! (Парадная Фанфара «Слушайте все!») by Andrei Golovin
National Anthem of the Russian Federation (Государственный Гимн Российской Федерации) by Alexander Alexandrov
Signal Retreat (Сигнал «Отбой»)
Veteran and mobile column
March General Miloradovich (Марш Генерал Милорадович) by Valery Khalilov
Farewell of Slavianka (Прощание Славянки) by Vasiliy Agapkin
Defenders of Moscow (Защитников Москвы) by Boris Alexandrovich Mokroysov
Artillery March (Марш Артиллеристов) by Tikhon Khrennikov
Katyusha (Катюша) by Matvey Blanter
Ballad of a Soldier (Баллада о Солдате) by Vasily Pavlovich Solovyov-Sedoy
Sacred War (Священная Война) by Alexandr Alexandrov
March The track to the frontline/The Song of the frontline driver (Марш «Дорожка фронтовая»/Песенка фронтового шофёра) by Boris Andreyevich Mokrousov
March Victory (Марш Победа) by Albert Mikhailovich Arutyunov
Lefort's March (Лефортовский Марш) by Valery Khalilov
On Guard for the Peace (На страже Мира) by Boris Alexandrovich Diev
Combat March (Строевой Марш) by Dmitry Illarionovich Pertsev
Air March (Авиамарш) by Yuliy Abramovich Khait
March of the Cosmonauts/Friends, I believe (Марш Космонавтов /Я верю, друзья) by Oskar Borisovich Feltsman
March Farewell, rocky mountains (Марш/Песня «Прощайте, скалистые горы») by Evgeny Emmanuilovich Zharkovsky
Crew is One Family (Экипаж - одна семья) by Viktor Vasilyevich Pleshak
We are the Army of the People (Мы Армия Народа) by Georgy Viktorovich Mavsesya
We Need One Victory (Нам Нужна Одна Победа) by Bulat Shalvovich Okudzhava
Glory to the Heroes (Слава героям) by Dmitry Illarionovich Pertsev
On the Road (В Путь) by Vasily Pavlovich Solovyov-Sedoy
In Defense of the Homeland (В защиту Родины) by Viktor Sergeyevich Runov
Conclusion
Victory Day (День Победы) by David Fyodorovich Tukhmanov
Song of the Russian Army (Песня о Российской Армии) by Alexandr Alexandrov


== Dignitaries in attendance ==
The Victory Day parade drew many international statesman to the Russian capital in the days leading up to 9 May. According to the Russian government, top leaders from 56 countries were invited to join Putin in the 2005 parade. In total, about 150 countries were represented at the parade. It was the largest gathering of world leaders in Russian history. The parade was the first one to be attended by world leaders since the 1995 parade (which attracts 57 countries).

Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder brought with him a group of Wehrmacht veterans, whom Vladimir Putin personally approached after a military parade on Red Square. Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi also arrived with Italian veterans.


=== Cancelled attendees ===
President of Georgia Mikheil Saakashvili, as well as two Presidents of Baltic nations, did not attend despite being invited. Saakashvili justified his refusal to attend by saying that "there was nothing much to celebrate in Moscow", instead hosting a ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Tbilisi, and hosting President Bush in the Georgian capital the following day. Lithuanian President Valdas Adamkus and Estonian President Arnold Rüütel jointly announced their non-participation in the parade on 7 March. They were all represented by lower-level politicians. In addition to that, a number of ambassadors and war veterans were presented as private attendees. British Prime Minister Tony Blair was unable to attend due to an emergency engagement followed the 2005 United Kingdom general election. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko was also invited, however instead chose to preside over the Victory Day Parade on Minsk's Victors Avenue.


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Moscow Victory Parade of 1945
Victory Day (9 May)
Victory in Europe Day
Victory Day Parades


== References ==


== External links ==
HD Russian Army Parade, Victory Day 2005 Парад Победы

John Wood (died 1458) was an English politician.
Wood was evidently a close relative of John Atte Wode , perhaps his son (perhaps illegitimate). Upon Atte Wode's death in 1391, his properties were inherited by Sir John Beauchamp , but after Beauchamp's death in 1420, they were conveyed to Wood.
Wood was elected MP for Worcester in May 1413, knight of the shire for Worcestershire in November 1414, Worcester again in 1415 and March 1416, and Worcestershire again in May 1421, 1423, 1429, 1433 and 1435.
He also served as Alnager for Worcestershire from Michaelmas 1405 to 1432, Bailiff for Worcester 1416–17, Escheator for Worcestershire 1416–17, 1424–26 and 1431–32, a JP in Worcestershire 1417–1458, and Deputy Sheriff of Worcestershire 1425–1426.


== References ==

Isabella of Balzo (24 June 1465 – 1533) was a Queen consort of Naples. She was the second consort and only Queen consort of Frederick of Naples. Isabella was also suo jure Duchess of Andria and Venosa and Princess of Altamura.


== Biography ==
Isabella was the daughter of Pirro del Balzo, Duke of Andria and Prince of Altamura, and Maria Donata Orsini of Venosa. Pietro had served as Grand Constable of the Kingdom of Naples but had been strangled to death in 1487. Isabella was in 1483 engaged to the heir of Naples, Francis, but he died prior to their wedding. Her father was imprisoned for having participated in a plot against the monarch. Isabella was by then engaged to the next heir to the crown of Naples, Frederick. The purpose of the marriage was to annex the territories of her parents in to the Kingdom of Naples. In the marriage contract, she was declared to be the heir of her parents' territories, despite the fact that she was not their eldest child, which meant that her fiefs were to be inherited by her issue and then further in to the Neapolitan royal house.
On 28 November 1487 in Andria, Isabella married Prince Frederick of Naples. He was the second son of Ferdinand I of Naples and his first consort, Isabella of Clermont. Upon marriage, she was declared Duchess regnant of Andria and Venosa and Princess regnant of Altamura. After the wedding she therefore remained in the Castle of Andria in Apulia, rather than joining the royal court of Naples. In 1495, during the war against France, Isabella was ordered by Frederick to seize control over the Castle of Bari and repair its fortifications, which she did. She managed the administration of the territory and its taxation, and also entered into negotiations with the French. She was however forced to flee to Brindisi, and later joined her consort in Otranto, before settling down in Lecce.
On 7 September 1496, Frederick succeeded his childless nephew Ferdinand II of Naples. Isabella became his Queen consort for five years. At the time of his succession, Isabella was in Lecce. She was told of his succession on 12 October, and asked to join him in Naples. She traveled toward Naples by many of the cities in the kingdom, where she received celebrations of herself as queen. She was however forced to stay on her way in Arienzo after a rebellion had erupted, and reached Naples in October 1497. Not until February 1498 was she able to reunite with Frederick as queen in Naples. 
A combination of King Louis XII of France and King Ferdinand II of Aragon had continued the claim of Louis' predecessor, King Charles VIII of France, to Naples and Sicily. In 1501 their alliance deposed Frederick; Naples initially went to Louis.
Frederick and Isabella spent the following years in exile. Isabella initially escaped to Ischia with her children in August 1501, but later followed Frederick to France, where he was given an allowance. In 1503, they moved to the Duchy of Maine. Frederick died in Tours on 9 November 1504. His death gave Isabella grave financial difficulties. Isabella found a refuge for herself and younger children in the Duchy of Ferrara under the protection of Frederick's nephew Alfonso d'Este, and lived there until her death, never remarrying. She spent her later life in poverty and relied on charity from relatives. In 1526, she asked for help from the pope to support her daughters.
Isabella was portrayed by Baldassare Castiglione as an ideal example of a woman and a queen to have bravely endured her many strikes by faith.


== Issue ==
Isabella and Ferdinand had:

Ferdinand of Aragón, Duke of Calabria (15 December 1488 – 1550). Married first Germaine of Foix (her third marriage) and secondly Mencía de Mendoza.
Julia (1492 – 10 March 1542). Married John George of Montferrat.
Alfonso (1499–1515)
Isabella (1500-1550)
Cesare (1501–1501/03)


== References ==


== Sources ==
Commire, Anne, ed. (2000). "Isabella del Balzo". Women in World History: A Biographical Encyclopedia. Vol. 7. Yorkin Publications.
Walsh, Richard J. (2005). Charles the Bold and Italy (1467-1477): Politics and Personnel. Liverpool University Press.


== External links ==
Dizionario Biografico degli Italiani - Volume 62 (2004)

Academy Glacier (Danish: Academy Gletscher) is a glacier in northwestern Greenland. Administratively it belongs to the Avannaata municipality.
The glacier was named by Robert Peary after the Philadelphia Academy of Natural Sciences.


== Geography ==
The Academy Glacier is located inland and discharges from the Greenland Ice Sheet into the Leidy Glacier, which bifurcates and has its terminus in the Academy Fjord, as well as in the Olrik Fjord as the smaller Marie Glacier.


== See also ==
List of glaciers in Greenland
Inglefield Fjord


== References ==


== External links ==
The recent regimen of the ice cap margin in North Greenland Archived 2021-06-25 at the Wayback Machine

Kofi Nti Boakye (born 5 April 1987) is a Ghanaian football player who plays as a striker or attacking midfielder.


== Career ==


=== Early career ===
Former member of Ghana Academicals, he scored 8 goals in 15 League matches 2005 and was member of the Ghana Premier League All Star team 2007. Boakye began his career with Corners Babies in 2003. He later went on to join Ghanaian Premier League club Liberty Professionals FC aiding the club in taking the WAFU Cup and President Cup.


=== Heart of Lions ===
In 2008, Boakye joined Ghanaian Premier League club Heart of Lions playing for two seasons. He also assisted the club in qualifying for the African Confederation Cup.


=== Asante Kotoko ===
Boakye later signed with Ghanaian Premier League club Asante Kotoko. He played for two seasons with the premier club and later became the Captain of the team. They went on to take the MTN FA Cup and qualified in the African Confederation Cup.


=== Al Ahli SC ===
In 2013, Boakye signed with Libyan side Al Ahli SC, He also played for Egyptian side Misr Lel Makkasa for another season before going on to play for Ifeanyi Ubah FC in 2015.


=== Shabab Al ===
In September 2017, Boakye Lebanese Premier League side Al Shabab.


== International career ==
Boakye's first call up for the Ghana national football team was for a friendly match against Argentina national football team in September 2009. On 30 September 2009, during the friendly match, he started the match and played 57th minutes to mark his international debut.


== Personal life ==
He is the brother of Isaac Boakye, the German-based player.


== Honours ==
Asante Kotoko

Ghana Premier League: 2011–12, 2012–13
Al Ahli

Libyan Premier League: 2013–14
Ifeanyi Ubah

Nigeria FA Cup: 2016


== References ==


== External links ==
Player profile
Kofi Nti Boakye at National-Football-Teams.com
IM Scouting Profile

The Baynes Bat (or sometimes Slingsby-Baynes Bat) was an experimental glider of the Second World War, designed by L. E. Baynes. It was used to test the tailless design that he had suggested as a means to convert tanks into temporary gliders so they could be flown into battle.


== Design and development ==
In the late 1930s, armies were looking for a way to airlift heavy military units. There were then no cargo aircraft big enough to lift a tank, and even if such a large aircraft had been created it would have needed many special facilities. A solution which was explored during the Second World War was to tow tanks as gliders, and for this wings had to be added. Most designs were based on straight wings with extended empennage and stabilizers. The design of L.E. Baynes AFRAeS in 1941 was for a 100 ft wingspan "Carrier Wing Glider" consisting chiefly of a swept wing with vertical stabilizers on the wingtips.

A 1/3 scale prototype was built entirely of wood in 1943 by Slingsby Sailplanes at Kirkbymoorside, and the Baynes Bat made its first flight in July 1943 possibly at the Airborne Forces Experimental Establishment at RAF Sherburn-in-Elmet or most likely at RAF Snaith a few miles away, where other AFEE projects where also being tested.
Snaith was a bomber station, so daytime testing was more possible than at Sherburn as it was also a fighter station with daytime operations and on grass runways where as Snaith had 3 long concrete runways and associated support facilities. Most of the test flights were piloted by Flight Lieutenant Robert Kronfeld.
Tests were successful, but the project was abandoned because a suitable tank was not then available and a decision had been made to develop gliders which could carry heavy equipment within their fuselages. The strategists were not convinced of the practicality of retrieving large numbers of Baynes Bats from the field, but in wartime this was not a critical factor.
The one Bat which had been built was the first tailless monoplane with flaps to be available for research and it was flown extensively by the Royal Aircraft Establishment to test the stability and control of tailless aircraft. The Bat was sold as surplus in October 1946 and entered on the British Gliding Association register in November 1947. The Bat was last seen in 1958, lying behind a hangar at Croydon Airport.


== Operators ==
 United Kingdom
Airborne Forces Experimental Establishment
Royal Aircraft Establishment


== Specifications ==
Data from Aeroplane Monthly & Ellison 1971.General characteristics
Crew: one
Length: 11 ft 4 in (3.46 m)
Wingspan: 33 ft 4 in (10.16 m)
Height: 4 ft 4.8 in (1.340 m)
Wing area: 160.0 sq ft (14.86 m2)
Aspect ratio: 7
Empty weight: 763 lb (346.1 kg)
Gross weight: 963 lb (436.8 kg)
Performance

Maximum speed: 120 mph (193 km/h, 104 kn)
Cruise speed: 80 mph (129 km/h, 70 kn)
Stall speed: 40 mph (64 km/h, 35 kn)
Wing loading: 6.0 lb/sq ft (29.3 kg/m2)


== See also ==
Antonov A-40 - the Soviet "Flying Tank"
General Aircraft Hamilcar, a British glider introduced during the war to carry light tanks.
Tetrarch tank - a British tank light enough to be carried by air


== Notes ==


== References ==

The Baynes Bat

This is a list of ships built by John Brown & Company at their shipyard in Clydebank, Scotland. 


== A ==


== B ==


== C ==


== D ==


== E ==


== F ==


== G ==
HMS Garth (L20)
MV Glenfinlas (1966)
PS Golden Eagle (1909)
PS Gwalia (1905)


== H ==


== I ==


== J ==
HMS Jackal (F22)
HMS Javelin (F61)
SS Jeannette (1911)
PS Jackel (1853 Yard Number 1)


== K ==


== L ==


== M ==
The steamship RMS Mauretania (1906) was constructed by Swan Hunter & Wingham Richardson, ship builders, not John Brown & Co.of Clydebank Scotland.


== N ==


== O ==


== P ==


== Q ==
RMS Queen Mary
RMS Queen Elizabeth
SS Queen Elizabeth 2


== R ==


== S ==


== T ==


== U ==


== V ==


== W ==

SS Wonga Wonga (1853, Yard Number 13.


== X ==


== Y ==
HMS Yarmouth (F101)


== Z ==
SS Zealandia (1910)
SS Zeeland (1901)


== References ==
"Clydeships Database". Retrieved 22 June 2018.

The  District Council of Coonalpyn Downs was a local government area in the Australian state of South Australia that existed from 1957 to 1997 on land in the state’s south-east.
It was established on 30 May 1957 with its seat being located in the town of Coonalpyn.

At establishment, the district consisted of land in the hundreds of Jeffries, Strawbridge, Coneybeer, Lewis, Field, Colebatch, Richards and Coombe and parts of the hundreds of Archibald, Carcuma and Kirkpatrick. The district therefore included parts of the cadastral counties of Buccleuch, Russell, Cardwell and Buckingham.
At establishment, councillors were elected from the following five wards with all returning two councillors each with the exception of Yumali which returned one councillor – Coonalpyn, Mclntosh, Richards, Tintinara and Yumali.
On 13 February 1997, it was amalgamated with the district councils of Meningie and Peake to create the Coorong District Council.


== Chairmen ==

The following persons were elected to serve as chairman of the council for the following terms:

Hedley Ivan George Prosser (1957–59)
Malcolm Chisholm McIntosh (1959–61)
Hedley Ivan George Prosser (1961–65)
John Edgar Calvert (1965–68)
Eric Thomas Filmer (1968–70)
Glen Thomas Goodall (1970–72)
William Brownlow Ashby (1972–74)
Donald James Edmonds-Wilson (1974–76)
William Brownlow Ashby (1976–78)
Donald James Edmonds-Wilson (1978–80)
Albert George Webb (1980–82)
Glen Thomas Goodall (1982–85)
Pitre Julian Desmazures (1985–?)


== References ==

The Cross-Strait Peace Forum (simplified Chinese: 两岸和平论坛; traditional Chinese: 兩岸和平論壇; pinyin: Liǎng'àn Hépíng Lùntán) is a forum between Mainland China and Taiwan to discuss the peaceful development of the cross-strait relations. The forum was firstly held in October 2013.


== Forums ==


=== 1st Forum ===
The first Cross-Strait Peace Forum was held on 11–12 October 2013 in Shanghai. The theme of the forum was Cross-Strait Peace, Common Development. It was organized by Mainland's National Society of Taiwan Studies and Taiwan's 21st Century Foundation. Around 120 experts and academics attended the forum.
Many topics were discussed in the forum, which are the conditions needed to be created for the leaders from the two sides to meet up, engagement in military contacts and exchanges to promote stability in the Taiwan Strait and alleviate worries over military security, setting up a coordination mechanism for external affairs, cooperation in humanitarian aid and disaster responses, enhancement of maritime cooperation and exploring the possibility of signing maritime security agreements.
The forum was concluded with the future discussion regarding the possibility of establishing a permanent institution for the forum in the second forum scheduled to be held in Taiwan next year.


== See also ==
Cross-Strait relations
Cross-Strait Economic, Trade and Culture Forum


== References ==

Back chat or backchat may refer to:


== Broadcasting ==
Backchat (1995 TV series), an American show in the mid-1990s
Backchat (2013 TV series), a British show starting in 2013
Backchat, a 1980s Australian radio program hosted by Fran Kelly
Backchat, an Australian television show hosted by Tim Bowden, 1986–1994
Backch@t, a New Zealand television show hosted by Bill Ralston, 1998–2000
Rugby League Back Chat, a British television show from the Premier Sports channel


== Music and performance ==
"Back Chat", a 1982 song by the band Queen
Backchat (ballet), a ballet produced by Eliot Feld
Backchat (quartet), winner of the Rising Star competition in the 2001 Sweet Adelines International competition
"Backchat", a track on the 2007 compilation album Watch the Ride by DJ Zinc

The Opel cam-in-head engine (CIH) is a family of automobile engines built by former General Motors subsidiary Opel from 1965 until 1998, appearing extensively in Opel/Vauxhall badged cars during this period. Both four- and six-cylinder inline configurations were produced. The name derives from the location of the camshaft, which was neither cam-in-block nor a true overhead camshaft. In the CIH engine the camshaft is located in the cylinder head but sits alongside the valves rather than above them, so therefore effectively is still an overhead valve design. The valves are actuated through very short tappets and rocker arms. The engine first appeared in the Opel Rekord B in 1965, and was largely replaced in four-cylinder form by the GM Family II unit as Opel/Vauxhall's core mid-size engine in the 1980s, with the six-cylinder versions continuing until 1994 in the Omega A and Senator B. A large capacity 2.4L four-cylinder version continued until 1998.
A diesel version of the CIH was also developed. This engine debuted in the Opel Rekord D in 1972.


== Design ==

The original design of the cam-in-head engine was done by General Motors in Detroit, Michigan.
Although the camshaft is in the cylinder head, the CIH is not a true overhead camshaft design. Rather it can be thought of as a cam-in-block engine with a greatly shortened valve drivetrain. The camshaft is driven by a roller chain. While the earliest engines use mechanical lifters, later versions use hydraulic tappets, which Opel pioneered for mass market production in the Family II unit which ultimately replaced the CIH. The cylinder head is a non-crossflow layout. This led to lowered fuel economy but was considerably cheaper to manufacture. The head and block are both made from cast iron. The CIH engine is oversquare, with the original three versions having a stroke of only 69.8 mm (2.75 in). Later engines of over two litres received longer strokes; up to 77.5 mm (3.05 in) for the 2.2 and 85 mm (3.35 in) for the 2.4 (also used for the 3.6 litre inline-six version).

While an improvement over a cam-in-block engine, the advantages over an OHC design were limited. For one, the lower head allowed for a correspondingly lower bonnet line. The CIH engine was expected to require less maintenance than an OHC design and was also lighter, albeit negated somewhat by the use of a cast iron head.
Unlike its smaller stablemate - the Opel OHV, the CIH was never adapted for transverse mounting (for front wheel drive applications), and is always found in rear wheel drive Opel/Vauxhall cars.
Opel developed their own crossflow head for the CIH block, and tested it in the experimental GT-2 of 1975 with the intent of installing it in the production model. In four-cylinder form, this engine reached only limited production as the Kadett GT/E's 20EH engine. The crossflow head did see mass production in six-cylinder form as the 3.0 24V in the Opel Senator B.


== Four-cylinder versions ==


=== 1.5 litre I4 ===
This is the smallest of the three original CIH engines introduced simultaneously. A 82.5 mm × 69.8 mm (3.25 in × 2.75 in) bore and stroke gives a 1.5 L (1,492 cc) displacement. As with most of Opel's engines of the 1960s and 1970s, versions optimized for low and high octane fuel were offered, with the 15N for normal and the 15S for super. Power ranged from 58 to 60 PS (43 to 44 kW) for the 15N while the rare 15S in the export-only Kadett B and Olympia A has 65 PS (48 kW) DIN at 5000 rpm. SAE output was 76 hp at 5600 rpm.
This engine was imported by Daewoo's predecessor companies GM Korea and Saehan Motors and went on to be built in South Korea by Daewoo beginning around 1983. The automobile taxation system of South Korea greatly favours engines of less than 1.5 litres displacement. It was installed in the Saehan Camina, the Saehan Gemini series, and in the Saehan/Daewoo Royale (until 1987). 1.9 and 2.0 litre versions were also built in Korea.

Applications

August 1965 - July 1966 Opel Rekord B
August 1966 - January 1970 Opel Rekord C
September 1967 - 1970 Opel Kadett B 1.5 S (export only, Finland/Austria/Sweden/USA)
September 1967 - 1970 Opel Olympia A 1.5 S (export only)
March 1976 - 1978 Saehan Camina
December 1977 - 1982 Saehan Gemini
1979 - 1988 Saehan/Daewoo Max (pickup version of Gemini/Kadett C)
1972 - 1982 Saehan Rekord
1982 - 1987 Daewoo Royale


=== 1.6 litre I4 ===
The 1.6 L (1,584 cc) version has a 85 mm (3.35 in) bore and the same 69.8 mm (2.75 in) stroke as most CIH fours. It was introduced in September 1970 with the all new Opel Manta A and then, seven weeks later, in the Opel Ascona A. As with the 1.5 litre, a 16N for lower octane fuel and a more powerful 16S for higher octane fuel were offered. Power outputs were 68 and 80 PS (50 and 59 kW) at the time of introduction, but dropped to 60 and 75 PS (44 and 55 kW) respectively in early 1975 when tighter pollution controls were introduced. From 1975 there was also a still-cleaner A16S version with 69 PS for some markets, this specific model also had a forged crank with 8 crankweights. It was replaced by a 1.6 L (1,598 cc) version of the Family II engine that appeared in the Opel Ascona C/Vauxhall Cavalier Mk II.

Applications

September 1970 - August 1975 Opel Manta A
October 1970 - September 1975 Opel Ascona A
August 1975 - May 1981 Opel Manta B
September 1975 - August 1981 Opel Ascona B
May 1977 - August 1979 Opel Kadett C 1.6 S
November 1975 - July 1981 Vauxhall Cavalier Mark I


=== 1.7 litre I4 ===
The 1.7 L (1,698 cc) CIH was another of the original three introduced. Bore is 88 mm (3.46 in) while stroke remains 69.8 mm (2.75 in). The 1700 was only ever available in carburetted form, for either normal or super petrol with corresponding power outputs. Power output is 60 PS (44 kW) for the original 17N, while the 17S version produces 75 PS (55 kW) DIN at 5200 rpm. Claimed SAE output for the 17S was 84 hp at 5600 rpm. The output of the 17N went up to 66 PS (49 kW) in 1969, and then back down to the original 60 after the compression was lowered in 1975.
The 17S received a new carburettor setup in 1972 when the Rekord D was introduced, and power rose to 83 PS (61 kW). In the larger Rekord, the 17S was popular in export markets like Italy and Greece where owners' costs were directly linked to engine displacement.

Applications

August 1965 - July 1966 Opel Rekord B
August 1966 - December 1971 Opel Rekord C
September 1967 – 1970 Opel Kadett B 1.7 S
August 1967 - July 1970 Opel Olympia A
January 1972 - August 1977 Opel Rekord D
August 1977 - 1980 Opel Rekord E
February 1970 - December 1971 Ranger A
January 1972 - August 1977 Ranger B
August 1972 - 1976 Chevrolet 1700 (South Korea)


=== 1.9 litre I4 ===

The 1.9 L (1,897 cc) CIH was the largest of the original three introduced. Bore is 93 mm (3.66 in) while the stroke remains 69.8 mm (2.75 in). The 1900 was available in carburetted or fuel injected forms, for either normal or super petrol with a variety of power outputs. An N version was a later addition. Output is 90 PS (66 kW) DIN at 5100 rpm for the original 19S; SAE power is 102 hp at 5400 rpm. There was also the 19HL (Hochleistung, or "high power"), introduced in 1967 for the sporty Opel Rekord Sprint and Kadett Rallye Sprint models. This version has 106 PS (78 kW), compared to 97 PS (71 kW) for the slightly more powerful 19SH only fitted to the Rekord (H meaning hydraulic valve lifters). The 19SH lost some power in 1975, down to 90 PS (66 kW) and the new 19N was introduced to replace the discontinued 17S; like the 17S it offered 75 PS (55 kW) but used cheaper gasoline and more relaxed driving characteristics. The 1900 is the most common version in the CIH family, available in the most versions and with the longest production time.
The 19E was the first of the CIH four-cylinders to receive fuel injection. It first appeared in the Manta GT/E in March 1974, with 105 PS (77 kW). There is also a low-powered Austrian market version of the 19N (the A19N) with 70 PS (51 kW) which was mostly fitted to the Opel Rekord E, and a special low emission version for the Swedish and Swiss markets called the S19S which develops 88 PS (65 kW). This specific model, along with the S16S, had a forged crank with 8 crankweights.

Applications

August 1965 - July 1966 Opel Rekord B
August 1966 - December 1971 Opel Rekord C
September 1967 - July 1973 Opel Kadett B Rallye (19 S/HL)
August 1967 - July 1970 Opel Olympia A coupé (19S)
October 1968 - middle 1973 Opel GT
September 1970 - August 1975 Opel Manta A
October 1970 - September 1975 Opel Ascona A
January 1972 - August 1977 Opel Rekord D
August 1975 - May 1981 Opel Manta B
September 1975 - August 1981 Opel Ascona B
September 1975 - July 1979 Opel Kadett C GT/E (19E only)
August 1977 - August 1982 Opel Rekord E
February 1970 - December 1971 Ranger A
January 1972 - August 1977 Ranger B
May 1974 - February 1976 Holden Torana 1900 LH
February 1976 - November 1976 Holden Torana 1900 LX
November 1976 - March 1978 Holden Sunbird LX
March 1978 - September 1978 Holden Sunbird UC
1978 - 1985 Saehan/Daewoo Rekord/Royale
November 1975 - July 1981 Vauxhall Cavalier Mark I


=== 2.0 litre I4 ===
The 2.0 L (1,979 cc) CIH was based on the 1.9 litre version, with the bore expanded to 95 mm (3.74 in) while the stroke remained 69.8 mm (2.75 in). Unlike the earlier 1.9, the 2.0 received hydraulic tappets. Developed to counteract the diminishing outputs which resulted from stricter emissions rules, the 2.0 was available in carburetted or fuel injected forms, for either normal or super petrol with a variety of power outputs. Output of the original 20S, presented in September 1975, is 100 PS (74 kW) at 5200 - 5400 rpm. This was soon followed by the fuel injected 20E version, with 110 PS (81 kW), and the slightly more powerful 115 PS (85 kW) 20EH fitted to the Kadett 2.0 GT/E. This received the Bosch L-Jetronic system, until it was replaced by the updated LE-Jetronic towards the end of 1981. A 90 PS (66 kW) 20N version appeared in August 1977. There are also two special low-emission versions for the Swedish and Swiss markets, called the S20S and S20E, with slightly less power than their dirtier counterparts.

Applications

September 1975 - August 1977 Opel Rekord D
September 1977 - August 1988 Opel Manta B
September 1977 - August 1981 Opel Ascona B
September 1977 - July 1979 Opel Kadett C GT/E, Rallye (20E/EH)
August 1977 - June 1986 Opel Rekord E
1984 - 1990 Chevrolet Rekord (South Africa)
1978 - 1985 Saehan/Daewoo (Rekord) Royale
November 1975 - July 1981 Vauxhall Cavalier Mark I
late 1978 - June 1986 Vauxhall Carlton


=== 2.2 litre I4 ===
The 2.2 CIH engine was fuel injected and was produced from 1984 through 1987. Its bore was 95mm but stroke was increased to 77.5mm. Also, the cylinder head was redesigned. It had bigger valves and intake ports were lifted. Also, hardened valve seats were added to accept unleaded fuel. Power output rose slightly: 115 PS (85 kW; 113 hp), with 182 N⋅m (134 lbf⋅ft) of torque.
It was used in the Opel Rekord E, Opel Monza A2 and Opel Senator A2.


=== 2.4 litre I4 ===
The 2.4 L (C24NE) was the final four-cylinder CIH version. Bore remained same 95mm but stroke was increased to 85mm. Power output: 125 PS (92 kW; 123 hp)
/ 195 N⋅m (144 lbf⋅ft). It was first used in the Omega A in the German market, while the 2.0 L Family II unit was the top spec four-cylinder engine option for the Omega in most markets outside of Germany. Its final application was in the Frontera SUV.
Applications:

1992-1998 Opel Frontera A
1988-1993 Opel Omega A


=== 400 I4 / Cosworth KAA ===

In the early 1970s Opel announced a new DOHC engine project intended to be used in Formula 2 (F2). The engine was designed in-house, and was unveiled in 1975. Homologated in Group 4 rallying, the engine suffered a series of failures, which prompted Opel to contact Cosworth engineering.
With the basic design of the engine already frozen, Cosworth's work included revising the port and camshaft shapes and extensive development work with a focus on reliability. Based on a 2.0E block with bore and stroke of 95.2 mm × 85 mm (3.7 in × 3.3 in), the engine displaced 2,420 cc (147.7 cu in). Compression was 11.5:1. Power and torque outputs were 190.2 kW (255 bhp) at 7200 rpm and 28 kg⋅m (202.5 lb⋅ft) at 5000 rpm. Air and fuel were fed by twin 48DCOE Weber carburettors, and the engine received a dry sump.
As a result of their successful work on the racing version of the engine, Cosworth was awarded the contract to build the 400 copies of the engine required to homologate the Ascona 400, and more later to homologate the Manta 400. Cosworth also consulted on the fuel injection system that replaced the carburettors on the road-going version. The detuned 16 valve engine was rated at 107.4 kW (144 bhp) at 5200 rpm and 21.4 kg⋅m (155 lb⋅ft) at 3800 rpm.


== Six-cylinder versions ==
The straight-six CIH was used in the largest Opel and Vauxhall cars from 1968 to 1993. It was succeeded by the Opel-designed 54° V6 in the mid-1990s.
Most of these engines were single cam-in-head engines with chain-driven camshafts. In the 1960s and 1970s, they generally came with carburetors, but were later fitted with Bosch fuel injection starting in 1969. Some later six-cylinder family members received true DOHC multivalve cylinder heads.


=== 2.2 litre I6 ===
This is the rarest of the inline-sixes. At only 2.2 L (2,239 cc), it shares its 82.5 mm (3.25 in) bore and 69.8 mm (2.75 in) stroke with the 1.5 litre "four". It debuted in December 1966. With 95 PS (70 kW) it had only marginally more power than the 1900S, at a substantial weight and cost penalty. It was dropped from the Rekord C following the introduction of the six-cylinder Commodore line in February 1967, and was discontinued entirely towards the end of 1968, when the 1969 models were introduced.

Applications

December 1966 - 1967 Opel Rekord C
February 1967 - August 1968 Opel Commodore A


=== 2.5 litre I6 ===

The modern Opel straight-six line began in 1968 with the 2.5 L (2,490 cc) 25S unit used in the Opel Commodore. Still a 12-valve engine, it had a very oversquare 87 mm × 69.8 mm (3.43 in × 2.75 in) bore and stroke. The 25S, with 9.2:1 compression and a single carburettor, produces 115 PS (85 kW) and 174 N⋅m (128 lb⋅ft), while the 25H, with 9.5:1 compression and dual carbs, produces 130 PS (96 kW) and 186 N⋅m (137 lb⋅ft).
With 9.2:1 compression and Bosch D-Jetronic (Commodore A & B), later L&LE-Jetronic, injection produced 150 PS (110 kW) and 186 N⋅m (137 lb⋅ft).
Applications

August 1968 - January 1972 Opel Commodore A
January 1972 - July 1977 Opel Commodore B
August 1977 - August 1982 Opel Commodore C / Vauxhall Viceroy
January 1978 - August 1987 Opel Senator A / Vauxhall Royale/Senator
February 1970 - December 1971 Ranger A
January 1972 - August 1977 Ranger B


=== 2.6 litre I6 ===
At the introduction of the 24v DOHC engine in the Senator/Carlton/Omega, the 2.5 was enlarged to 2.6 litres. With a reworked 12-valve cylinder head and RAM induction it now produced 150 PS (110 kW; 148 hp). This engine was also fitted to southeast Asian export market versions of the Holden VP, VR, and VS Commodores between around 1992 and 1997. These cars were usually labelled "Opel Calais".


=== 2.8 litre I6 ===
The 2.8 was introduced in Kapitän/Admiral and Commodore model. The carburetted version can also be found in the Monza and Senator, while the second Commodore was also available with a fuel-injected version.
Single Carb 28S: 125–132 PS (92–97 kW; 123–130 hp).
Dual Carb 28H: 140–145 PS (103–107 kW; 138–143 hp).
Injection 28EC: 160–165 PS (118–121 kW; 158–163 hp).


=== 3.0 litre I6 ===
The 3.0 L (2,969 cc) version was introduced in 1977. The carburetted 30S version had 150 PS (110 kW; 148 hp), while the more popular fuel injected 30E version produced 180 PS (132 kW; 178 hp) and 248 N⋅m (183 lb⋅ft) in the Opel Monza GSE and Opel Senator 3.0E, as well as their Vauxhall-badged equivalents, the Royale and later Senator. Bore was increased to 95 mm (3.74 in), but the stroke remained at a very short 69.8 mm (2.75 in).
The 1986 Opel Omega 3000 / Vauxhall Carlton GSi introduced the latest version of the 3.0. The injected engine produced 180 PS (132 kW; 178 hp) and 240 N⋅m (177 lb⋅ft). Amongst the changes were larger valves and a switch in engine management to Bosch Motronic. This engine later found its way into the Senator and Omega 3.0i.
In 1989, a DOHC 24-valve version with a variable length intake manifold was introduced, with power increasing to 204 PS (150 kW; 201 hp) and 270 N⋅m (199 lb⋅ft).


=== 3.6 litre C36GET I6 ===
In 1990 a special version of the six cylinder appeared in the Lotus Carlton/Omega. With the 24v 3.0 L engine from the GSI as a base, displacement was increased to 3.6 L; 220.6 cu in (3,615 cc) by increasing the stroke to 85 mm (3.35 in) while keeping the bore at 95 mm (3.74 in). Lotus reportedly experimented with a variety of forced induction schemes, including paired supercharging and turbocharging and sequential turbos, before settling on two small turbos for quick spool-up. Two Garrett AiResearch T25 turbochargers and a Behr air-to-water intercooler were used. The turbos were arranged in parallel, each fed by and feeding three cylinders. The fuel injection system was customized. Apart from a reduction in compression ratio to 8.2:1, the cylinder head was otherwise unmodified. The Lotus engine produced 382 PS (377 bhp; 281 kW) at 5,200 rpm and 568 N⋅m (419 lb⋅ft) at 4,200 rpm.


== Third-party tuner versions ==
Crossflow and multi-valve cylinder heads for the CIH block were developed by a number of well-known German tuning companies such as Irmscher, Mantzel, Risse, and Steinmetz.


=== Swedentop ===
Extensive work on a revised four cylinder head with larger valves, enlarged ports, and revised camshaft profiles was done in Sweden, particularly by ENEM in Nacka. These heads and other parts were used for rallying, and the changes were later copied by Opel for factory backed cars.


=== 3.0i I6 ===
The Omega Evo had a special Irmscher version of the 24-valve engine with an uprated head and forged internals producing 230 PS (169 kW; 227 hp).


=== 3.6i I6 ===
Irmscher made a 3.6i 12v engine and fitted this 36E coded engine into the Monza E and Monza GSE models. In the UK some of these engines found their way into Vauxhall Senator Bs instead.
In late 1987 newer, more environmentally friendly versions of this engine with tuning by Irmscher were installed in versions of the Omega A/Mk3 Carlton and Senator B models. These later units, with engine codes 36NE, C36NE, and C36NEI, produced (200 PS (147 kW; 197 hp)), less than the first 207 bhp (154 kW) engines that were used to power the earlier Opel Monzas. 24-valve versions of the 3.6 were also developed.


=== 4.0i I6 ===
4.0 L 24v DOHC versions of the six cylinder CIH were made Irmscher and Mantzel.
Mantzel's 4.0 L (4,032 cc) engine used an M4024V code number and modified standard 30NE/C30NE/C30LE/C30SE coded Opel engine blocks for its 4.0 litre conversions. This is used as an option in the 1980 - 1986 Bitter SC.
The Irmscher engine had a C40SE code and was the only one of these two engines to use a specially cast engine block as part of this increased capacity engine conversion. These engines have a bore and stroke of 98 mm (3.86 in) and 88 mm (3.46 in) respectively, for an overall displacement of 4.0 L (3,983 cc). The Irmscher version produced 272 PS (200 kW; 268 hp). It was installed in the Opel Omega A and Senator B, and was an option in the Opel Omega Evolution 500 models.


== OHC Diesel versions ==
Diesel derivatives of the CIH engine family first appeared in September 1972, and progressively became more popular in the following two decades. These compression-ignition engines were used in Opel's medium or high range cars and were designed for maximum fuel economy and long life, with performance a secondary consideration. They received a stiffened block, longer strokes, and a single overhead cam head, the latter two making this engine considerably taller than the petrol CIH units. Most installations required a noticeable bump in the bonnet to fit the taller diesel engines. All OHC Diesels were inline four-cylinder engines. They were offered in three displacements, listed below.


=== 2.0 litre diesel ===
The 2.0 litre saw wider use at the end of the 1970s, but in some markets, including Italy, it had appeared already at the end of 1974. This engine was created by reducing the earlier 2.1 litre diesel unit's bore from 88 mm (3.5 in) to 86.5 mm (3.4 in), while retaining its 85 mm (3.3 in) stroke, for a total displacement of 1,998 cc (121.9 cu in). It was built only in naturally aspirated form and in a single variant, the 20D, whose compression ratio was 22:1. Fuel supply was provided by Bosch injection. The maximum power supplied by this engine was 58 PS (43 kW; 57 hp) at 4400 rpm, while the maximum torque was 117 N⋅m (86 lb⋅ft) between 2000 and 2200 rpm. This engine was available in:

Opel Rekord D 2.0 D (1974-77 in select markets, including Italy)
Opel Rekord E 2.0 D (1977–81)
Opel Ascona B 2.0 D (1978–81)


=== 2.1 litre diesel ===
The CIH 2.1 litre diesel engine appeared in 1972 as an engine option in the Opel Rekord D range. This engine has the distinction of marking the debut of the Rüsselsheim company in the production of diesel engines. The 2.1 litre had bore and stroke dimensions of 88 mm × 85 mm (3.5 in × 3.3 in), for a displacement of 2,068 cc (126.2 cu in). It was built only in naturally aspirated form and in only one variant; the 21D. The compression ratio and the fuel injection system were the same 22:1 and Bosch system used later in the 20D. Power and torque outputs were different, but only slightly: the 21D engine was capable of delivering a maximum power of 60 PS (44 kW; 59 hp) at 4400 rpm, with a maximum torque of 120 N⋅m (89 lb⋅ft) at 2500 rpm. It appeared in:

Opel Rekord D 2.1 D (1972–77)
Opel Rekord E 2.1 D (1977–81)


=== 2.3 litre diesel ===
The CIH 2.3 litre diesel engine was introduced in 1979 and by the 1980s had become a staple of Opel's automotive production for high-end diesel models.
This engine resulted from the reworking of the 2.1 litre diesel engine, which was also slated for replacement. The bore was enlarged from 88 mm (3.5 in) to 92 mm (3.6 in), while the stroke remained unchanged at 85 mm (3.3 in). As a result, displacement rose to 2,260 cc (137.9 cu in). Unlike the other two CIH diesel versions, the 2.3 litre was offered in several variants, some of which used forced induction in either a turbocharged version or the very rare Comprex configuration. Forced induction diesels have few differences to N/A engines: sintered metal dry cylinder sleeves, piston cooling oil squirts with oil feed pipe outside cylinder block and high volume oil pump.
Variants of the 2.3 litre version are listed below.


==== 23D ====
With this code the debut variant of the 2.3 litre diesel engine is indicated. It is a naturally aspirated engine with a compression ratio of 22:1 and Bosch fuel injection. Some features were taken from the previous naturally aspirated 2.1 litre. Maximum power supplied by this engine was 65 PS (48 kW; 64 hp) at 4200 rpm, with maximum torque of 127 N⋅m (94 lb⋅ft) at 2500 rpm. Later versions, with a compression ratio of 22.1:1, produce 71 PS (52 kW; 70 hp) at 4400 rpm, and a maximum torque of 135 N⋅m (100 lb⋅ft) at 2400 rpm. This engine appeared in:

Opel Rekord E 2.3D (1979-1986)
Bedford CF1 (1980-1986)


==== 23DK ====
This variant was produced for a short period of time; from 1984 to 1986. It is a supercharged variant using a Comprex pressure wave supercharger. The compression ratio was 23:1 and the fuel system was Bosch injection. Maximum power produced by this engine was 95 PS (70 kW; 94 hp) at 4200 rpm, with a peak torque 195 N⋅m (144 lb⋅ft) at 2200 rpm. It was used in:

Opel Senator A 2.3 Comprex D (1984-1986)


==== 23DT ====
This variant was also introduced in 1984 using a traditional turbocharger unlike the 23DK supercharged unit. The 23DT is Opel's first turbodiesel engine. As in the 20DK Comprex variant, the compression ratio is 23:1, and the injection system is by Bosch. The turbocharger used was a KKK K24. Maximum power was 86 PS (63 kW; 85 hp) at 4200 rpm, while maximum torque was 192 N⋅m (142 lb⋅ft) between 2200 and 2400 rpm. This engine found use in:

Opel Rekord E 2.3 TD (1984–86)
Opel Senator A 2.3 TD (1984–86)


==== 23YD ====
This variant is a naturally aspirated model introduced in September 1986, a few months after the launch of the Opel Omega A which the engine was developed for. Compared to the earlier naturally aspirated 23D, the compression ratio was raised from 22:1 to 23:1, while the injection system has remained unchanged. Maximum output was increased from 65 to 73 PS (48 to 54 kW; 64 to 72 hp) at 4400 rpm, with maximum torque of 138 N⋅m (102 lb⋅ft) at 2400 rpm. From 1989 on the engine had a catalytic converter.

Opel Omega A 2.3 D (1986–93)


==== 23YDT ====
This model was a 2.3 litre turbodiesel that resulted from an update of the previous 23DT. The new engine did not include major changes, but provided more horsepower, reaching 90 PS (66 kW; 89 hp) at 4200 rpm and reaching a maximum torque of 190 N⋅m (140 lb⋅ft) at 2200 rpm, just below that of the 23DT engine.

Opel Omega A 2.3 TD (1986-1988)


==== 23DTR ====
This model is the last CIH Four diesel engine produced by Opel. It is an update of the 23YDT unit which it replaced beginning in August 1988. Compared to the previous version, the turbocharger was changed from a KKK K24 to a K14 from the same manufacturer and added air-to-air intercooler. This engine delivered a maximum power of 100 PS (74 kW; 99 hp) 4200 rpm and was installed in the following models:

Opel Omega A 2.3 TD (1988–93)
Opel Frontera A 2.3 TD (1991–95)
While in the first model above maximum torque was 218 N⋅m (161 lb⋅ft) between 2000 and 2200 rpm, in the second it was just below 215 N⋅m (159 lb⋅ft) at 2200 rpm.


== Motorsports ==
The CIH engine had a long competition career in both four- and six-cylinder forms. It won the 1966 European Rally Championship, with Swedish driver Lillebror Nasenius at the wheel of an Opel Rekord B.
In 1969 Virgilio Conrero became the official director of Opel's rally team, with responsibility for preparing the cars and selecting drivers. The arrangement lasted until 1986. Conrero prepared cars first appeared in hill climbs. In 1971 an Opel GT won the GT2.0 class at the Targa Florio.

In June 1972, prior to the September launch of their new diesel engine, Opel set two world records and eighteen international records at the Dudenhofen proving ground with their diesel Rekordwagen. The car was a custom-bodied single-seat Opel GT with a turbocharged version of the 2.1 L OHC diesel engine developing 95 PS (70 kW).


== References ==


== Further reading ==
"Lotus Carlton". Car and Driver (April 1991).
"Opel Straight 6-cylinder cars". Carfolio.Com. March 5, 2006.

The 2018 Saudi Super Cup was the fifth edition of the Saudi Super Cup, an annual football match played between the winners of the previous season's Saudi Pro League and King Cup.
The match was played on 18 August 2018 between Al-Hilal, the winners of the 2017–18 Saudi Pro League, and Al-Ittihad, the winners of the 2018 King Cup. 
It was held at Loftus Road in London, England, marking the second time the stadium hosted the Saudi Super Cup, and the third consecutive edition of the competition to be played in England.
Al-Hilal won the match 2–1, securing their second Saudi Super Cup title.


== Venue ==

Loftus Road was announced as the venue of the final on 27 July 2018. This was the second time Loftus Road hosted the final and was the third time it was hosted in London.
Loftus Road was built in 1904 and has been used as the home stadium of Queens Park Rangers since 1917. Its current capacity is 18,439, and the record attendance was 35,353 in 1974.


== Background ==

This was Al-Hilal's third appearance in the competition. Al-Hilal won the 2015 edition and finished as runners-up in 2016. This was Al-Ittihad's second appearance in the competition. They finished as runners-up in the 2013 after losing to Al-Fateh.
The 2017 edition, which was supposed to be contested between Al-Hilal and Al-Ittihad, was canceled. The decision came at the request of then-Saudi national team manager Edgardo Bauza, who sought to adjust the domestic calendar to set up an ideal preparation program for the 2018 FIFA World Cup.
Al-Hilal qualified by winning the 2017–18 Saudi Pro League on the final matchday with a 4–1 victory over Al-Fateh. Al-Ittihad qualified by winning their ninth King Cup title, defeating Al-Faisaly 3–1 in the final.
This was the 141st meeting between the two sides in all competitions. Al-Hilal had won 56 times, while Al-Ittihad had won 42 times, with 42 draws between them. It was also the tenth final between them, with Al-Ittihad winning five times and Al-Hilal winning four times.


== Match ==


=== Details ===


=== Statistics ===


== See also ==
2017–18 Saudi Professional League
2018 King Cup


== References ==

Howard Arlen Schwab (September 17, 1960 – April 20, 2024) was an American television personality and sports researcher who worked for ESPN in various roles from 1987 to 2013. Known for his extensive knowledge of sports trivia, he was the final adversary on the network's game show Stump the Schwab (2004–2006), in which contestants tested their knowledge against his; Schwab estimated that he was victorious about 80% of the time. As a geek and non-athlete, The Athletic credited him with breaking the stereotype of people seen on sports television.


== Early life ==
Howard Arlen Schwab was born in Brooklyn, New York City, on September 17, 1960. His father was a Holocaust survivor from Germany. 
Schwab grew up in Baldwin, New York, and took an intense interest in sports from childhood. A 1982 graduate of St. John's University, Schwab served as the editor-in-chief of College & Pro Football News Weekly in the mid-1980s before joining ESPN in 1987 as a researcher.


== Career ==
By 1995, Schwab was the coordinating producer for ESPN's website. Beginning in 1998, Schwab served as a coordinating producer for ESPN studio production, which entailed duties on programs including SportsCenter and Outside the Lines. Schwab also served as the resident Couch Potato on ESPN's First Take, on which he discussed and evaluated the top sports TV programming with a 1–5 bags of chips rating system. Schwab also appeared with Merril Hoge and Matthew Berry on ESPNEWS Fantasy Insider.

Schwab appeared on the sports trivia show Stump the Schwab, which ran from 2004 to 2006. During the show, Schwab faced off against sports fans in a trivia contest. Schwab said that he had a 64–16 record during the show's 80 episodes.
As part of cost-cutting efforts, Schwab was released from ESPN in June 2013. In 2014, Schwab joined Sports Jeopardy! as a consultant and writer. He also worked regularly with Dick Vitale for several years afterward. He also worked for Fox Sports after his tenure at ESPN.


== Personal life and death ==
Schwab was married twice; his first wife, Jodi Singer, died in 2014, and he later married Suzie Davie.
After a period of declining health, Schwab died from a heart attack at a hospital in Aventura, Florida, on April 20, 2024, at the age of 63.


== References ==

Kunal Naren Saikia (born 19 June 1988) is an Indian first-class cricketer who plays for Assam in domestic cricket. Saikia is a right-handed batter and wicket-keeper. He made his first-class debut against Goa at Guwahati in the 2006–07 Ranji Trophy.


== References ==


== External links ==
Kunal Saikia at Cricinfo
Kunal Saikia at CricketArchive (subscription required)

The Prospect 900 is a sailboat that was designed by Dutch naval architect Ericus Gerhardus van de Stadt and first built in 1975.


== Production ==

The boat was built by Rydgeway Marine in the United Kingdom, starting in 1975, but is now out of production.


== Design ==
The Prospect 900 is a small recreational keelboat, built predominantly of fiberglass. It has a masthead sloop rig, an internally-mounted spade-type rudder and a lifting keel. It displaces 7,275 lb (3,300 kg) and carries 3,086 lb (1,400 kg) of iron ballast. The boat has a draft of 4.92 ft (1.50 m) with the lifting keel extended.
The boat is fitted with a Volvo MD5A diesel engine of 8 hp (6 kW). It has a 35 U.S. gallons (130 L; 29 imp gal) fresh water tank and 10 U.S. gallons (38 L; 8.3 imp gal) fuel tank.
The boat has a hull speed of 6.34 kn (11.74 km/h).


== See also ==
List of sailing boat types


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Prospect 900 at Wikimedia Commons

Frederick Charles Wills (14 November 1870 – 8 August 1955) was a pioneer of cinematography in Queensland, Australia, recording the first moving images of life in that state between 1899 and 1903.


== Personal life and career ==
Frederick Wills was born in Devon, England, and came to Australia around 1889.  He settled in Sydney and lived at Croydon working as an artist.  He married in 1895 and moved to Queensland in 1897 where he was employed as an illustrator and photographer for Queensland Department of Agriculture.  He worked there until 1903 and it was in this period that he was involved in pioneering cinematography in Queensland. After his resignation in 1903 he operated a photographic studio in George Street Brisbane for two years.
Wills and his family then moved to Toowoomba where he started a photographic equipment business and photo studio in Ruthven Street.  This business prospered until 1914 when he left Toowoomba, it is not certain where he went from there as there are no surviving records apart from his obituary in The Sydney Morning Herald in 1955 which noted he had died in Rowena in north-western New South Wales.
There are numerous other surviving images and publications as he was active in doing professional and studio photography until the late 1930s.  He also produced many pictorial guides and postcards, plus there remains a large body of work from his time in the Department of Agriculture.


== The story behind the films of Frederick Wills ==
In early 1899 Wills purchased a Lumiere Cinematographe for the Department of Agriculture so that films of agricultural scenes could be taken for showing at the 1899 Greater Britain Exhibition to intending immigrants. He was assisted by Henry Mobsby, a photographer with the Department of Agriculture. Thirty one-minute films were taken in 1899, including test footage showing early scenes of Sydney and Brisbane.
The films were screened only once at the Department of Agriculture in Brisbane and were never used again.  They were stored away along with the camera and did not re-surface until the building was being renovated in 1955 when they were donated to the Queensland Museum.  The films were sent in 1982 to the National Film and Sound Archive where they were copied to modern 35mm stock for preservation.
The films are unique due to being the first known films taken by any government agency anywhere in the world. They are the largest surviving collection of Australian colonial films and include the first films taken of Brisbane and some of the earliest footage taken of Sydney.  They were the first films to be taken by a Queenslander and are the earliest Australian industrial documentary films and amongst the earliest of their type in the world.


== Centenary rescreening ==
In 1999 there was a rescreening of Wills' films to celebrate the centenary of their production.  This was organised by the Department of Primary Industries, the Queensland Museum and the Centenary of Federation - Queensland. Wills' films and photographs are preserved in the Queensland Museum and the National Film and Sound Archive in Canberra.


== References ==


== External links ==
Queensland Museum - Frederick Wills
Biography of Frederick Wills, ANU

The Temple of Jupiter Apenninus or Temple of Jupiter Poeninus  was an Umbrian-Roman temple that lay at the foot of Monte Catria, near the modern village of Scheggia, between today's Umbria and Marche regions, in Italy.  The temple stood near the ancient Via Flaminia, 200 km (135 Roman miles) from Rome, where the road crossed the Apennines. The structure, once one of the most important Umbrian shrines, has now completely disappeared.


== Dedication ==
The temple was dedicated to Jupiter Poeninus or Apenninus, resulting from the syncretization of the Celtic deity Poenina/Poeninus with Jupiter. The deity was linked to the Ligurian god Poeninus mentioned by Livy in relation to a cult on the mountain, in turn linked to the Celtic term pen, meaning "mountain, hill", or more generally "height". The cult of Jupiter Poeninus originated before the Roman conquest, and was imported into Umbria by the Celts. In this region it is attested not only in Scheggia, but also in neighbouring territories, such as that of Nuceria Camellana, where the highest peak in the area, Monte Pennino, was named after the god.
A dedicatory inscription described below attributes to this divinity the appellation "Optimus Maximus", proper to Jupiter. The deity should be identified with Jupiter Grabovius, a god mentioned many times in the Iguvine Tablets. Together with Mars Grabovius and Vofionus Grabovius he was part of the Archaic Triad of Ikuvium/Iguvium (today's Gubbio).


== Location ==

The Tabula Peutingeriana, dating back to the second half of the 4th century AD, shows, at the point where the Via Flaminia crosses the Apennines, the inscription ad Ensem, referring to a post station (mansio). Close to it, there is the drawing of a temple, with the inscription "Iovis Penninus id e(st) Agubio", referring to the nearby city of Gubbio (Iguvium).
The Statio ad Hensem, mentioned by all the ancient Itineraria (Antonini, Gaditanum, Burdigalense), lay 133 miles from Rome along the Via Flaminia, and has been identified with the modern village of Scheggia. Iguvium is not cited in the Itineraria, as it was not situated along the Roman road, and is only mentioned on the Tabula, since it was the nearest city to the Temple of Jupiter. It is possible that Ad Hensem belonged  to the city's territory, a fact confirmed by Pliny the Younger, who writes in his Naturalis historia that the inhabitants of Iguvium used to sell along the Via Flaminia a certain medicinal herb.
In a nineteenth-century work the ruins then visible near il castello della Scheggia were attributed to the sanctuary mentioned in the ancient sources. According to Gaetano Moroni, the Temple of Jupiter Apenninus would have been located at La Piaggia dei Bagni di Scheggia, at about 2.5 km from the village of Scheggia. This place is close to the modern Ponte a Botte ("Barrel Bridge"), erected in 1802-5 along the Via Flaminia, in the site called Campo delle Grigne, i.e. 'the field of conglomerate rocks', on the north-western slopes of Monte Sènnico (also known as delle Pianelle or Petrara). This area belonged to the territory of the ancient cities of Iguvium and Luceoli, and now lies at the border between the municipalities of Scheggia e Pascelupo, in the province of Perugia, and Cantiano in the province of Pesaro and Urbino. The temple stood where the ancient Via Flaminia crossed the Apennines, at 135 Roman miles from Rome. Before the construction of the barrel bridge, the road went downhill crossing a stream and wound its way up the mountain in a tortuous route of nine bends (known as the Lumaca di Scheggia, "Scheggia's Snail"). From a passage by Claudian mentioned below, it is probable that the temple lay at the top of the slope, in correspondence with the modern ANAS' Casa Cantoniera (the service house of the road workers).


== History ==
For those who accept the version of the discovery of the Iguvine Tablets near Scheggia in 1444, these were housed in the temple. In that case, the shrine–similarly to the Fanum Voltumnae of the Etruscans–can be identified as the federal sanctuary of the Umbrians. As such it must have been of considerable age, and would have been romanised at a later date. The ante quem period for its construction is the first century AD, the age of the cippus cited in the next section. At that time, the temple was located in the heart of the Regio VI Umbria.
From ancient sources it is known that in the 3rd century AD the shrine was famous as an oracular sanctuary: in the Historia Augusta Flavius Vopiscus reports how emperor Aurelian (r. 270–275) wanted to display in his temple of the Sun in Rome a golden statue of Jupiter and how, "Appenninis sortibus additis" ("according to the response of the oracle of the Apennines"), he wanted to call it with the name of Jupiter "Consul" or "Consultant". Another author of the Historia Augusta, Trebellius Pollio, tells how emperor Claudius Gothicus (r. 268–270) had consulted the oracle "in the Apennines" three times, for himself, for his descendants and for his brother Quintillus.
The temple's importance can be inferred also from the fact that in the Tabula Peutingeriana it is one of three temples depicted along the whole Via Flaminia.

The shrine was still standing at the beginning of the 5th century: the poet Claudian, describing Honorius' (r. 393–423) journey from Ravenna to Rome in 404, reports how after the Furlo gorge the emperor  ...exuperans delubra Iovis saxoque minantes / Appenninigenis cultas pastoribus aras...overcomes the sanctuary of Jupiter and the altars overhung by the rock, venerated by the shepherds of the Apennines


== Findings ==

At the beginning of the eighteenth century, during works to improve the via Flaminia ordered by Pope Clement XI (r. 1700–1721), ruins of ancient buildings and an inscription on a memorial cippus were found in the locality of Piaggia dei Bagni, between what is now Scheggia and Pontericciòli di Cantiano. The cippus, dating back to the first century AD and now kept in the Museo lapidario maffeiano in Verona, bears the following dedication by a couple of liberti ("freedmen") of Greek origin to Jupiter Apenninus. IOVI APENINO - T. VIVIVS CARMOGENES (ET) SVLPICIA EV(PHRO)SINE CONIVX - V.S.D.D.Titus Vivius Carmogenes and his spouse Sulpicia Euphrosine, having fulfilled their vow, dedicated to Jupiter Apenninus
Another cippus, found at the beginning of the 18th century in the same place where the previous epigraph was found and now in the Museo di antichità in Turin, was dedicated to Jupiter Optimus Maximus by a Roman woman:I.O.M.S. - PRO SALVTE CN ACONI CRESCENT(II) ARA POSVIT BAEBIDIA POTESTASSacred to Jupiter Optimus Maximus. Bebidia Potestas erected the altar for the health of Gnaeus Acon Crescentius
A thunderbolt is carved on the left side and an eagle on the right side of the cippus, both being symbols of the god. The discovery in the Piaggia dei Bagni of two epigraphs both related to Jupiter shores up the hypothesis about the location of the Temple of Jupiter Apennine in this place.
More recent excavations in the Piaggia dei Bagni have brought to light tanks from the Roman era, which collected water from the local springs, hypothetically connected to the sanctuary. They are similar to the pools built next to the Temple of Fortuna Primigenia in Praeneste. These pools, that shed light on the origin of the place name ("Baths' clearing"), allowed the faithful to wash themselves and perform ablutions before praying in the temple.
The temple structure, however, has completely disappeared.


== References ==


== Sources ==
Pio Paolucci (1966). Scheggia - Note Critico-Storiche (PDF) (in Italian). Empoli: La Toscografica.
Sigismondi, Gino (1979). Nuceria in Umbria (in Italian). Foligno: Ediclio.
AA.VV. (2004). Umbria. Guida d'Italia (in Italian). Milano: Touring Club Italiano.

The Kiamichi Shale or Kiamichi Formation is a geologic formation in Arkansas and Texas. It preserves fossils dating back to the Cretaceous period.


== See also ==

List of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in Texas
Paleontology in Texas


== References ==

Various Contributors to the Paleobiology Database. "Fossilworks: Gateway to the Paleobiology Database". Archived from the original on 19 August 2022. Retrieved 17 December 2021.

Kim Ha-eun (Korean: 김하은; born January 3, 1984), born Kim Hyun-jin (김현진), is a South Korean actress. She is best known for her roles in the television series Conspiracy in the Court, and The Slave Hunters.
She is also the CEO of an online clothing store (301호 고양이).


== Filmography ==


=== Television series ===


=== Film ===


== Awards and nominations ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Kim Ha-eun on Facebook
Kim Ha-eun on Cyworld (in Korean)
Kim Ha-eun at HanCinema 
Kim Ha-eun at IMDb

Submersisphaeria is a genus of fungi in the Annulatascaceae family of the Ascomycota. The relationship of this taxon to other taxa within the Sordariomycetes class is unknown (incertae sedis), and it has not yet been placed with certainty into any order.


== References ==

Year 1120 (MCXX) was a leap year starting on Thursday of the Julian calendar.


== Events ==


=== By place ===


==== Byzantine Empire ====
Siege of Sozopolis: Byzantine forces under Emperor John II Komnenos conquer Sozopolis in Pisidia, from the Sultanate of Rum. The Seljuk garrison is defeated while they are trapped between the Byzantine cavalry and the army (which is besieging the fortress).


==== Levant ====
January 16 – Council of Nablus: King Baldwin II of Jerusalem and Patriarch Warmund convenes an assembly at Nablus, establishing the earliest surviving written laws of the Crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem. The prelates and noblemen who attend the meeting confirm the clergy's right to collect the tithe and to bear arms "in the cause of defense".
Baldwin II grants the Knights Templar under Hugues de Payens and Godfrey de Saint-Omer a headquarters in a wing of the royal palace on the Temple Mount in the captured Al-Aqsa Mosque in the Old City of Jerusalem.
Summer – Baldwin II leads an expedition to Antioch to defend the northern Crusader states. He signs a 1-year truce with Ilghazi, Artuqid ruler of Mardin, securing the possession of Kafartab and other fortresses in Syria.


==== Europe ====
June 17 – Reconquista: Battle of Cutanda: The combined forces of Aragon and Navarre under King Alfonso the Battler crush the Almoravid army near Calamocha. Alfonso recaptures the fortified towns of Calatayud and Daroca.
The Almoravid fleet under Admirals Abu Abd Allah ibn Maymum of Almería and Isa ibn Maymum of Sevilla attacks the coastline of the Christian Kingdom of Galicia.
Freiburg is founded by Conrad I and his elder brother, Duke Berthold III of Zähringen, as a free market town.


==== England ====
King Henry I gives a portion of the Stoneleigh estate (located in Warwickshire) to Geoffrey de Clinton, his chamberlain and treasurer. He builds a motte and bailey castle and forms a lake to provide better defences.
November 25 – The White Ship sinks in the English Channel off Barfleur. Henry I's only legitimate son, William Adelin, is among 300 (many of them Anglo-Norman nobility) who drown.
The Pseudo-Ingulf's Croyland Chronicle records Cornwall as a nation distinct from England.


==== Asia ====
Fang La, a Chinese rebel leader, leads an uprising against the Song dynasty in Qixian Village (modern-day Zhejiang) in southeast China. He raises an army and captures Hangzhou.
August–September (the eighth month of the Chinese calendar) – Wanyan Xiyin, a Jurchen nobleman and minister, completes the design of the first version of the Jurchen script.
The flourishing south Chinese coastal city of Quanzhou claims a population of 500,000 citizens, including the hinterland.


=== By topic ===


==== Religion ====
Order of Premonstratensians founded by Norbert of Xanten at Prémontré in Picardy.
Bishop Urban begins the construction on Llandaff Cathedral in Wales.


==== Science ====
Walcher of Malvern, an English astronomer and mathematician, creates a system of measurement for the Earth using degrees, minutes and seconds of latitude and longitude.


== Births ==
Alfonso of Capua, Italo-Norman nobleman (d. 1144)
Arnold I of Vaucourt, archbishop of Trier (d. 1183)
Frederick II of Berg, archbishop of Cologne (d. 1158)
Fujiwara no Yorinaga, Japanese statesman (d. 1156)
Gonçalo Mendes de Sousa, Portuguese
nobleman (d. 1190)

Gunhilda of Dunbar, Scottish Noblewoman (d. 1166)
Ioveta of Bethany, princess and daughter of Baldwin II
Jaksa Gryfita, Polish nobleman and knight (d. 1176)
Judah ben Saul ibn Tibbon, Arab-Jewish translator
Louis VII (le Jeune), king of France (d. 1180)
Philip of Milly, French nobleman and knight (d. 1171)
Rainald of Dassel, archbishop of Cologne (d. 1167)
Roger de Mowbray, English nobleman (d. 1188)
Urban III, pope of the Catholic Church (d. 1187)
William I ("the Wicked"), king of Sicily (d. 1166)
Zhao Boju, Chinese landscape painter (d. 1182)


== Deaths ==
September 3 – Blessed Gerard, founder of the Knights Hospitaller
September 24 – Welf II ("the Fat"), duke of Bavaria (b. 1072)
November 25
Matilda FitzRoy, countess and daughter of Henry I
Ralph of Pont-Echanfray, Norman knight (b. 1070)
Richard d'Avranches, 2nd Earl of Chester (b. 1094)
William Adelin, duke and son of Henry I (b. 1103)
Adelaide, countess of Vermandois and Valois (or 1124)
Afridun I (the Martyr), ruler (shah) of Shirvan (b. 1046)
Eudo Dapifer (or FitzHerbert), Norman nobleman
Fujiwara no Atsutaka, Japanese nobleman and poet
Fujiwara no Sadazane, Japanese calligrapher (b. 1076)
Ingegerd, queen of Denmark and Sweden (b. 1046)
Raymond Pilet d'Alès, French nobleman (b. 1075)


== References ==

Eduardo Alfonso Sánchez Hernández (born 30 October 1946) is a Mexican politician serving as Deputy of the LIX Legislature of the Mexican Congress and representing Veracruz.  He was formerly affiliated with the Institutional Revolutionary Party.


== References ==

The Protogine Zone is a geological boundary zone in western Sweden. There are two slightly different definitions of the Protogine Zone. In the lithological definition it forms the limit between the gneisses of western Sweden and the relatively underformed eastern granites. As such it makes up the limit of deformation and metamorphism attributed to the Sveconorwegian orogeny. In the tectonic definition it is a zone of strong deformation that follows roughly the same course as the lithological Protogine Zone. In the two definitions of the Protogine Zone it runs from Scania across Lake Vättern into the upper course of Klarälven and then into Norway. The tectonic Protogine Zone has anastomosing branches and splits south of Lake Vättern into various diverging arms. The two westernmost of these arms follow the valleys of the Nissan and Lagan rivers. A more eastern branch is reflected in the alignment of the lakes Rusken, Rymmen and Möckeln.
The origin of the Protogine Zone has been traced to the Mesoproterozoic when it was a zone of weakness in the crust. About 1575–1562 Ma ago the Progine Zone was intruded by mafic magma during the same time spans as Rapakivi granites intruded more easterly domains in Fennoscandia. Later 1224–1215 and ca. 1204 Ma ago the progine zone was subject to extensional tectonics perhaps being a back-arc basin. The Protogine Zone obtained its final configuration during the Sveconorwegian orogeny 1130–950 Ma ago.   


== References ==

Eduardo Ray Márquez López (born February 5, 1976) is a Nicaraguan former professional boxer who competed from 1996 to 2010. He held the WBO minimumweight title in 2003.


== Professional career ==
Marquez turned professional in 1996 & amassed a record of 17-5-1 (1 NC) before beating WBO minimumweight champion Jorge Mata & winning the world title. His reign would last less than six weeks before losing the title to Puerto Rican contender Iván Calderón.


== Professional boxing record ==


== See also ==
List of world mini-flyweight boxing champions


== References ==


== External links ==
Boxing record for Eduardo Ray Márquez from BoxRec (registration required)

Panagiotis Tsakalakos (Greek: Παναγιώτης Τσακαλάκος; born December 16, 1978, in New Jersey, United States), is an American-born Greek singer and guitarist. He rose to prominence after winning the second series of Greek Idol. In the final held on June 25, 2011, he won with 53.8% of the public votes against rival finalist Malou Kiriakopoulou. Soon after his win, he released his debut single "Poly Mou Paei".
Panagiotis Tsakalakos parents went to the U.S. in the early 1970s where his father did graduate work at Northwestern. He holds both a bachelor's and master's degree in Music.
On January 4, 2026 he was announced as one of the candidates for representing Greece in the Eurovision Song Contest 2026, He failed to qualify for the final.


== Discography ==


=== Albums ===
2012: Tha Me Vreis (Θα Με Βρείς)


=== Singles ===
2008: "I Just Can't Figure Out"
2011: "Poly Mou Paei" (Πολύ Μου Πάει)
2011: "Acharisto Paidi" (Αχάριστο Παιδί)
2012: "Tha Me Vreis" (Θα Με Βρείς)
2018: "Xekinaei" (Ξεκινάει)


== References ==

Łódź Design Festival is an international festival of design taking place since 2007 in Łódź, Poland. It presents different faces of design including industrial design, arts and crafts design, graphic design, architectural design, service design and fashion design.


== Programme ==
The festival programme has continued to expand upon the ongoing dialogue with the audience, to finally assume its current shape.
It now comprises:

Main Programme - the core of the festival consisting of exhibitions curated around the festival’s annual theme and featuring different approaches to design.
make me! - a competition that allows beginning designers to show their work. The post-competition exhibition presented as part of the festival is a reflection on the search for a design identity pursued by young creators.
Educreation - a space designed for families with children.
must have -  a competition and exhibition that aim to select and promote the best Polish product implementations.
Open Programme - selection of external projects to the accompanying program of the festival.


== Coverage ==
Moreover, from 1 January to 31 October 2013, the 7th edition of Łódź Design Festival was mentioned more than 2034 times in different media: radio, TV, internet, print media (data source: Press Service) News about Łódź Design Festival were presented in the popular media in Poland e.g. Design Alive, Wallpaper, Eksklusiv, Kikimora, Przekrój, Gazeta Wyborcza, Elle-Decoration, Architektura-murator, Czas na wnętrze and also in the main polish TV coverage: Polsat, Polsat News, TVP Łódź, TVP Kultura, TVN.
A New York Times blog wrote about Łódź Design Festival too: "This October, fashion week overlaps with the fourth annual Łódź Design festival; one of its curators is the Wrocław-based rising star Oskar Zieta, whose inflated metal stools look like Mylar balloons."


== See also ==
Cultural events in Poland


== References ==

Rolf Emmrich  (27 August 1910 – 5 May 1974) was a German professor of internal medicine.
Emmrich was born in Freiberg, Saxony. He studied at the University of Tübingen and University of Freiburg (Ph.D. 1936) and subsequently held the positions of privat-docent at the University of Halle-Wittenberg in 1948. Since 1954 he was professor at the University of Leipzig. In 61 Emmrich became a member of Saxonian Academy of Sciences, in 1963 member of the Leopoldina.
In 1930 Emmrich joined the fraternity Landsmannschaft Schottland. In 1974 he died in Leipzig.


== References ==
"Eingemauert. Die sächsischen Hochschulen und der 13. August 1961". Archiv der Uni Leipzig (in German). 2011-12-29. Archived from the original on 2012-04-15.

Starships & Spacecraft is a supplement published by Judges Guild in 1979 for Game Designers Workshop's science-fiction role-playing game Traveller.


== Contents ==
Starships & Spacecraft is a supplement containing three large three-color sheets of startship deck plans, which also provide technical data, and sheets containing information on each of the types of craft found in Traveller Book 2 (Starships).


== Publication history ==
Starships & Spacecraft was written by Dave Sering and was published in 1979 by Judges Guild as three 3-color map sheets.


== Reception ==
Bob McWilliams reviewed Starships and Spacecraft for White Dwarf #15, giving it an overall rating of 5 out of 10, and stated that "If you feel you really cannot design and draw your own starship layouts (surely one of the pleasures of being a Traveller Referee), this is for you."
William A. Barton reviewed Starships & Spacecraft in The Space Gamer No. 32. Barton commented that "Starships & Spacecraft should prove quite helpful in making your Traveller campaign even more realistic to your players. It deserves a place in your Traveller library."


== References ==

Nereina punctulata is a species of freshwater snail with an operculum, an aquatic gastropod mollusk in the family Neritidae, the nerites.


== Distribution ==
Distribution of Nereina punctulata include:

Puerto Rico
Dominica


== Ecology ==
Nereina punctulata lives in rivers.
The estimation of the lifespan is at least 3–7 years. Neritina punctulata migrates upstream during lifespan.
It is a grazer, that feeds on algae. It is dominant grazer in Río Mameyes.


== References ==

Lamarck J.B. (1816). Liste des objets représentés dans les planches de cette livraison. In: Tableau encyclopédique et méthodique des trois règnes de la Nature. Mollusques et Polypes divers. Agasse, Paris. 16 pp.
Eichhorst T.E. (2016). Neritidae of the world. Volume 1. Harxheim: Conchbooks. 695 pp.


== External links ==
Crosse, H. & Fischer, P. (1893). Diagnoses Molluscorum Republicae Mexicanae et Guatemalae incolarum. Journal de Conchyliologie. 40(3): 294-296

Sara Errani and Léolia Jeanjean won the doubles title at the 2023 MundoTenis Open, defeating Julia Lohoff and Conny Perrin in the final, 7–5, 3–6, [10–7].
Lyudmyla and Nadiia Kichenok were the reigning champions from 2016, when the event was a WTA International tournament, but did not participate this year.


== Seeds ==


== Draw ==
Key


=== Draw ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Main draw

In deep learning, the transformer is a family of artificial neural network architectures based on the multi-head attention mechanism, in which input data such as text, images, or audio, is  converted to a sequence of numerical representations called tokens, and each token is converted into a vector via lookup from a word embedding table. At each layer, each token is then contextualized within the scope of the context window with other (unmasked) tokens via a parallel multi-head attention mechanism, allowing the signal for key tokens to be amplified and less important tokens to be diminished. Because self-attention alone is permutation-invariant, transformers inject positional information, typically through positional encodings or learned positional embeddings, so token order can affect the output.
Transformers have the advantage of having no recurrent units, therefore requiring less training time than earlier recurrent neural architectures (RNNs) such as long short-term memory (LSTM). Later variations have been widely adopted for training large language models (LLMs) on large (language) datasets. Modern transformer designs are commonly grouped into encoder-only, decoder-only, and encoder-decoder variants, depending on whether they are optimized for representation learning, autoregressive generation, or conditional sequence-to-sequence tasks.

The original version of the transformer architecture was proposed in the 2017 paper "Attention Is All You Need" by researchers at Google. The predecessors of transformers were developed as an improvement over previous architectures for machine translation, but have found many applications since. They are used in large-scale natural language processing, computer vision (vision transformers), reinforcement learning, audio, multimodal learning, robotics, and playing chess. It has also led to the development of pre-trained systems, such as generative pre-trained transformers (GPTs) and BERT (bidirectional encoder representations from transformers).


== History ==


=== Predecessors ===
For many years, sequence modelling and generation was done by using plain recurrent neural networks (RNNs). A well-cited early example was the Elman network (1990). In theory, the information from one token can propagate arbitrarily far down the sequence, but in practice the vanishing-gradient problem leaves the model's state at the end of a long sentence without precise, extractable information about preceding tokens.
A key breakthrough was LSTM (originally described in a 1995 technical report and formally published in 1997), an RNN that introduced gating mechanisms to mitigate the vanishing gradient problem, allowing efficient learning of long-sequence modelling. One key architectural element was the use of multiplicative gating units, in which the outputs of some neurons modulate the outputs of others. These multiplicative units are conceptually distinct from the additive attention mechanism later introduced for sequence-to-sequence models.
 Neural networks using multiplicative units were later called sigma-pi networks or higher-order networks. LSTM became the standard architecture for long sequence modelling until the 2017 publication of transformers. However, LSTM still used sequential processing, like most other RNNs. Specifically, RNNs operate one token at a time from first to last; they cannot operate in parallel over all tokens in a sequence.
Modern transformers overcome this problem, but unlike RNNs, they require computation time that is quadratic in the size of the context window. The linearly scaling fast weight controller (1992) learns to compute a weight matrix for further processing depending on the input. One of its two networks has "fast weights" or "dynamic links" (1981). A slow neural network learns by gradient descent to generate keys and values for computing the weight changes of the fast neural network which computes answers to queries. This was later shown to be equivalent to the unnormalized linear transformer.


=== Attention with seq2seq ===

The idea of encoder–decoder sequence transduction had been developed in the early 2010s; commonly cited as the originators that produced seq2seq are two concurrently published papers from 2014.
A 380M-parameter model for machine translation uses two long short-term memories (LSTM). Its architecture consists of two parts. The encoder is an LSTM that takes in a sequence of tokens and turns it into a vector. The decoder is another LSTM that converts the vector into a sequence of tokens. Similarly, another 130M-parameter model used gated recurrent units (GRU) instead of LSTM. Later research showed that GRUs are neither better nor worse than LSTMs for seq2seq.
These early seq2seq models had no attention mechanism, and the state vector is accessible only after the last word of the source text was processed. Although in theory such a vector retains the information about the whole original sentence, in practice the information is poorly preserved. This is because the input is processed sequentially by one recurrent network into a fixed-size output vector, which is then processed by another recurrent network into an output. If the input is long, then the output vector would not be able to contain all relevant information, degrading the output. As evidence, reversing the input sentence improved seq2seq translation.
The RNN search model introduced an attention mechanism to seq2seq for machine translation to solve the bottleneck problem (of the fixed-size output vector), allowing the model to process long-distance dependencies more easily. The name is because it "emulates searching through a source sentence during decoding a translation".
The relative performances were compared between global (that of RNN search) and local (sliding window) attention model architectures for machine translation, finding that mixed attention had higher quality than global attention, while local attention reduced translation time.
In 2016, Google Translate was revamped to Google Neural Machine Translation, which replaced the previous model based on statistical machine translation. The new model was a seq2seq model where the encoder and the decoder were both 8 layers of bidirectional LSTM. It took nine months to develop, and it outperformed the statistical approach, which took ten years to develop.


=== Parallelizing attention ===

Seq2seq models with attention (including self-attention) still suffered from the same issue with recurrent networks, which is that they are hard to parallelize, which prevented them from being accelerated on GPUs. In 2016, decomposable attention applied a self-attention mechanism to feedforward networks, which are easy to parallelize, and achieved SOTA result in textual entailment with an order of magnitude fewer parameters than LSTMs. One of its authors, Jakob Uszkoreit, suspected that attention without recurrence would be sufficient for language translation, thus the title "attention is all you need". That hypothesis was against conventional wisdom at the time, and even his father Hans Uszkoreit, a well-known computational linguist, was skeptical. In the same year, self-attention (called intra-attention or intra-sentence attention) was proposed for LSTMs.
On 2017-06-12, the original (100M-parameter) encoder–decoder transformer model was published in the "Attention is all you need" paper. At the time, the focus of the research was on improving seq2seq for machine translation, by removing its recurrence to process all tokens in parallel, but preserving its dot-product attention mechanism to keep its text processing performance. This led to the introduction of a multi-head attention model that was easier to parallelize due to the use of independent heads and the lack of recurrence. Its parallelizability was an important factor to its widespread use in large neural networks.


=== AI boom era ===
As early as spring 2017, even before the "Attention is all you need" preprint was published, one of the co-authors applied the "decoder-only" variation of the architecture to generate fictitious Wikipedia articles. Transformer architecture is now used alongside many generative models that contribute to the ongoing AI boom.
The "reference implementation" of the original Transformer was written in a TensorFlow library. In language modelling, ELMo (2018) was a bi-directional LSTM that produces contextualized word embeddings, improving upon the line of research from bag of words and word2vec. It was followed by BERT (2018), an encoder-only transformer model. In October 2019, Google started using BERT to process search queries. In 2020, Google Translate replaced the previous RNN-encoder–RNN-decoder model by a transformer-encoder–RNN-decoder model.
Starting in 2018, the OpenAI GPT series of decoder-only transformers became state of the art in natural language generation. At the end of 2022, ChatGPT, a chatbot based on a fine-tuned variant of GPT-3.5, became unexpectedly popular, triggering a boom around large language models.
Transformers have been applied in modalities beyond text. Four days after the publication of "Attention is All You Need", a multimodal transformer architecture, MultiModel, was published by most authors of that paper. Other examples include the vision transformer, speech recognition, robotics, and multimodal. The vision transformer, in turn, stimulated new developments in convolutional neural networks. Image and video generators like DALL-E (2021), Stable Diffusion 3 (2024), and Sora (2024), use transformers to analyse input data (like text prompts) by breaking it down into "tokens" and then calculating the relevance between each token using self-attention, which helps the model understand the context and relationships within the data.


== Training ==


=== Methods for stabilizing training ===
The plain transformer architecture had difficulty in converging. In the original paper, the authors recommended using learning rate warmup. That is, the learning rate should linearly scale up from 0 to maximal value for the first part of the training (usually recommended to be 2% of the total number of training steps), before decaying again.
A 2020 paper found that using layer normalization before (instead of after) multihead attention and feedforward layers stabilizes training, not requiring learning rate warmup. This is the "pre-LN Transformer" and is more commonly used, compared to the original "post-LN Transformer".


=== Pretrain-finetune ===
Transformers typically are first pretrained by self-supervised learning on a large generic dataset, followed by supervised fine-tuning on a small task-specific dataset. The pretrain dataset is typically an unlabeled large corpus, such as The Pile. Tasks for pretraining and fine-tuning commonly include:

language modeling
next-sentence prediction
question answering
reading comprehension
sentiment analysis
paraphrasing
The T5 transformer report documents a large number of natural language pretraining tasks. Some examples are:

restoring or repairing incomplete or corrupted text. For example, the input, "Thank you ~~ me to your party ~~ week", might generate the output, "Thank you for inviting me to your party last week".
translation between natural languages (machine translation)
judging the pragmatic acceptability of natural language. For example, the following sentence might be judged "not acceptable", because even though it is syntactically well-formed, it is improbable in ordinary human usage: The course is jumping well.
While each of these tasks is trivial or obvious for human native speakers of the language (or languages), they have typically proved challenging for previous generations of machine learning architecture.


=== Tasks ===

In general, there are three classes of language modelling tasks: "masked", "autoregressive", and "prefixLM". These classes are independent of a specific modeling architecture such as transformer, but they are often discussed in the context of transformer.
In a masked task, one or more of the tokens is masked out, and the model would produce a probability distribution predicting what the masked-out tokens are based on the context. The loss function for the task is typically sum of log-perplexities for the masked-out tokens: 
  
    
      
        
          Loss
        
        =
        −
        
          ∑
          
            t
            ∈
            
              masked tokens
            
          
        
        ln
        ⁡
        (
        
          probability of 
        
        t
        
           conditional on its context
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{Loss}}=-\sum _{t\in {\text{masked tokens}}}\ln({\text{probability of }}t{\text{ conditional on its context}})}
  
and the model is trained to minimize this loss function. The BERT series of models are trained for masked token prediction and another task. ("Masked" as in "masked language modelling" is not "masked" as in "masked attention".)
In an autoregressive task, the entire sequence is masked at first, and the model produces a probability distribution for the first token. Then the first token is revealed and the model predicts the second token, and so on. The loss function for the task is still typically the same. The GPT series of models are trained by autoregressive tasks.
In a prefixLM task, the sequence is divided into two parts. The first part is presented as context, and the model predicts the first token of the second part. Then that would be revealed, and the model predicts the second token, and so on. The loss function for the task is still typically the same. The T5 series of models are trained by prefixLM tasks. ("PrefixLM" as in "prefix language modeling" is not "prefixLM" as in "prefix language model".)


== Architecture ==
All transformers have the same primary components:

Tokenizers, which convert text into tokens.
Embedding layer, which converts tokens and positions of the tokens into vector representations.
Transformer layers, which carry out repeated transformations on the vector representations, extracting more and more linguistic information. These consist of alternating attention and feedforward layers. There are two major types of transformer layers: encoder layers and decoder layers, with further variants.
Un-embedding layer, which converts the final vector representations back to a probability distribution over the tokens.
The following description follows exactly the transformer as described in the original paper. There are variants, described in the following section.
By convention, we write all vectors as row vectors. For example, pushing a vector through a linear layer means multiplying it by a weight matrix on the right, as 
  
    
      
        x
        W
      
    
    {\displaystyle xW}
  
.


=== Tokenization ===
As the transformer architecture natively consists of operations over numbers (matrix multiplications, dot products, activation functions) rather than over text, there must first be a mapping from any input text to some numerical representation. This happens in three steps.
First, the input text is treated by a preprocessor, which performs both textual transformations and splits the text into coarse-grained segments called pretokens. The latter is referred to as pretokenization. Second, each pretoken is segmented further into tokens by a tokenizer that expects to only see pretokens output by its preprocessor. Each token it produces is a string of one or more characters belonging to a finite set of strings called the vocabulary 
  
    
      
        V
      
    
    {\displaystyle V}
  
. Third, because the vocabulary is finite and known beforehand, each token can be assigned an integer identifier, and this mapping is applied to the sequence of tokens to represent any input text as a numerical sequence. Since this mapping is bijective, the output side can produce a sequence of integer identifiers which can then be turned back into tokens. After undoing some of the preprocessing, the result is again legible text.
Training a tokenizer (sometimes referred to as vocabularization) means finding a suitable vocabulary 
  
    
      
        V
      
    
    {\displaystyle V}
  
, but also learning how to use it, since any given string 
  
    
      
        s
      
    
    {\displaystyle s}
  
 of length 
  
    
      
        
          |
        
        s
        
          |
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle |s|}
  
 has 
  
    
      
        
          2
          
            
              |
            
            s
            
              |
            
            −
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle 2^{|s|-1}}
  
 hypothetical segmentations, some of which containing segments that are not in the vocabulary. The most important hyperparameter during vocabularization is the vocabulary size 
  
    
      
        
          |
        
        V
        
          |
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle |V|}
  
: when it is small, the learned vocabulary generally consists of characters and smaller strings, and words will be segmented into many tokens. At larger sizes, it becomes affordable to dedicate tokens to full words, although depending on the preprocessor and tokenizer, it is not necessarily the case that large vocabularies will always use the largest token(s) available to segment a word.
Because tokens are not always full words, they may also be referred to as subwords and tokenization algorithms may be referred to as subword tokenizers. This is also to differentiate these systems from traditional terminology used in older information retrieval and natural language processing systems, where "tokenization" was used to denote what is today called "pretokenization" (very crudely: splitting into words). In tokenizers that produce tokens that are not part of the vocabulary, a special token that does belong to the vocabulary is used as a generic stand-in, written as "[UNK]" for "unknown". In principle, any string could be hidden by such an [UNK]. Indeed, in information retrieval, pretokenizers were themselves used as tokenizers (and also called "tokenizers") with a word-level vocabulary that contained an [UNK].
Commonly used subword tokenization algorithms are byte pair encoding (BPE) and the unigram language model (ULM), which each include a vocabularization algorithm and a dedicated segmentation algorithm. There also exist several segmentation algorithms that require no learning and can be applied given a vocabulary (produced by BPE or ULM, for example), like greedily recognising tokens in a pretoken by moving through it left-to-right. Well-known software implementations of subword tokenizers are Hugging Face's tokenizers Python package implemented in Rust, and the sentencepiece Python package implemented in C++. The latter package is named as such because one of its configuration options allows disabling the built-in pretokenizer, hence effectively making entire sentences a pretoken and thus having the tokenizer see entire sentences, rather than individual words.


=== Embedding ===

Each integer token identifier is converted into an embedding vector via a lookup table. Equivalently stated, it multiplies a one-hot representation of the token identifier by an embedding matrix 
  
    
      
        M
      
    
    {\displaystyle M}
  
. For example, if the input token's identifier is 
  
    
      
        3
      
    
    {\displaystyle 3}
  
, then the one-hot representation is 
  
    
      
        [
        0
        ,
        0
        ,
        0
        ,
        1
        ,
        0
        ,
        0
        ,
        …
        ]
      
    
    {\displaystyle [0,0,0,1,0,0,\dots ]}
  
, and its embedding vector is
  
    
      
        
          E
          m
          b
          e
          d
        
        (
        3
        )
        =
        [
        0
        ,
        0
        ,
        0
        ,
        1
        ,
        0
        ,
        0
        ,
        …
        ]
        M
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathrm {Embed} (3)=[0,0,0,1,0,0,\dots ]M}
  
The token embedding vectors are added to their respective positional encoding vectors (see below), producing the sequence of input vectors.
The dimension of an embedding vector is called hidden size or embedding size and written as 
  
    
      
        
          d
          
            emb
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle d_{\text{emb}}}
  
. This size is written as 
  
    
      
        
          d
          
            model
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle d_{\text{model}}}
  
 in the original transformer paper.


=== Un-embedding ===
An un-embedding layer is almost the reverse of an embedding layer. Whereas an embedding layer converts a token identifier into a vector, an un-embedding layer converts a vector into a probability distribution over tokens.

The un-embedding layer is a linear-softmax layer:
  
    
      
        
          U
          n
          E
          m
          b
          e
          d
        
        (
        x
        )
        =
        
          s
          o
          f
          t
          m
          a
          x
        
        (
        x
        W
        +
        b
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathrm {UnEmbed} (x)=\mathrm {softmax} (xW+b)}
  
The matrix has shape 
  
    
      
        (
        
          d
          
            emb
          
        
        ,
        
          |
        
        V
        
          |
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (d_{\text{emb}},|V|)}
  
. Some architectures use the transpose of the embedding matrix 
  
    
      
        M
      
    
    {\displaystyle M}
  
 as the un-embedding matrix 
  
    
      
        W
      
    
    {\displaystyle W}
  
 in order to avoid needing double the amount of embedding-related parameters and to avoid divergence during training. This practice is called weight tying.


=== Positional encoding ===

A positional encoding is a fixed-size vector representation of the relative positions of tokens within a sequence: it provides the transformer model with information about where the words are in the input sequence. This induces a bias towards the order of the input sequence, so that, for example, the input sequence "man bites dog" is processed differently from "dog bites man".
The positional encoding is defined as a function of type 
  
    
      
        f
        :
        
          R
        
        →
        
          
            R
          
          
            d
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle f:\mathbb {R} \to \mathbb {R} ^{d}}
  
, where 
  
    
      
        d
      
    
    {\displaystyle d}
  
 is a positive even integer. The full positional encoding defined in the original paper is:
  
    
      
        (
        f
        (
        t
        
          )
          
            2
            k
          
        
        ,
        f
        (
        t
        
          )
          
            2
            k
            +
            1
          
        
        )
        =
        (
        sin
        ⁡
        (
        θ
        )
        ,
        cos
        ⁡
        (
        θ
        )
        )
        
        ∀
        k
        ∈
        {
        0
        ,
        1
        ,
        …
        ,
        d
        
          /
        
        2
        −
        1
        }
      
    
    {\displaystyle (f(t)_{2k},f(t)_{2k+1})=(\sin(\theta ),\cos(\theta ))\quad \forall k\in \{0,1,\ldots ,d/2-1\}}
  
where 
  
    
      
        θ
        =
        
          
            t
            
              r
              
                k
              
            
          
        
        ,
        r
        =
        
          N
          
            2
            
              /
            
            d
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \theta ={\frac {t}{r^{k}}},r=N^{2/d}}
  
.
Here, 
  
    
      
        N
      
    
    {\displaystyle N}
  
 is a free parameter that should be significantly larger than the biggest 
  
    
      
        k
      
    
    {\displaystyle k}
  
 that would be input into the positional encoding function. The original paper uses 
  
    
      
        N
        =
        10000
      
    
    {\displaystyle N=10000}
  
.
The function is in a simpler form when written as a complex function of type 
  
    
      
        f
        :
        
          R
        
        →
        
          
            C
          
          
            d
            
              /
            
            2
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle f:\mathbb {R} \to \mathbb {C} ^{d/2}}
  

  
    
      
        f
        (
        t
        )
        =
        
          
            (
            
              e
              
                i
                t
                
                  /
                
                
                  r
                  
                    k
                  
                
              
            
            )
          
          
            k
            =
            0
            ,
            1
            ,
            …
            ,
            
              
                d
                2
              
            
            −
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle f(t)=\left(e^{it/r^{k}}\right)_{k=0,1,\ldots ,{\frac {d}{2}}-1}}
  
where 
  
    
      
        r
        =
        
          N
          
            2
            
              /
            
            d
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle r=N^{2/d}}
  
.
The main reason for using this positional encoding function is that using it, shifts are linear transformations:
  
    
      
        f
        (
        t
        +
        Δ
        t
        )
        =
        
          d
          i
          a
          g
        
        (
        f
        (
        Δ
        t
        )
        )
        f
        (
        t
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle f(t+\Delta t)=\mathrm {diag} (f(\Delta t))f(t)}
  
where 
  
    
      
        Δ
        t
        ∈
        
          R
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Delta t\in \mathbb {R} }
  
 is the distance one wishes to shift. This allows the transformer to take any encoded position, and find the encoding of the position n-steps-ahead or n-steps-behind, by a matrix multiplication.
By taking a linear sum, any convolution can also be implemented as linear transformations:
  
    
      
        
          ∑
          
            j
          
        
        
          c
          
            j
          
        
        f
        (
        t
        +
        Δ
        
          t
          
            j
          
        
        )
        =
        
          (
          
            
              ∑
              
                j
              
            
            
              c
              
                j
              
            
            
            
              d
              i
              a
              g
            
            (
            f
            (
            Δ
            
              t
              
                j
              
            
            )
            )
          
          )
        
        f
        (
        t
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \sum _{j}c_{j}f(t+\Delta t_{j})=\left(\sum _{j}c_{j}\,\mathrm {diag} (f(\Delta t_{j}))\right)f(t)}
  
for any constants 
  
    
      
        
          c
          
            j
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle c_{j}}
  
. This allows the transformer to take any encoded position and find a linear sum of the encoded locations of its neighbors. This sum of encoded positions, when fed into the attention mechanism, would create attention weights on its neighbors, much like what happens in a convolutional neural network language model. In the author's words, "we hypothesized it would allow the model to easily learn to attend by relative position."
In typical implementations, all operations are done over the real numbers, not the complex numbers, but since complex multiplication can be implemented as real 2-by-2 matrix multiplication, this is a mere notational difference.


=== Encoder–decoder (overview) ===

Like earlier seq2seq models, the original transformer model used an encoder–decoder architecture. The encoder consists of encoding layers that process all the input tokens together one layer after another, while the decoder consists of decoding layers that iteratively process the encoder's output and the decoder's output tokens so far.
The purpose of each encoder layer is to create contextualized representations of the tokens, where each representation corresponds to a token that "mixes" information from other input tokens via self-attention mechanism. Each decoder layer contains two attention sublayers: (1) cross-attention for incorporating the output of encoder (contextualized input token representations), and (2) self-attention for "mixing" information among the input tokens to the decoder (i.e. the tokens generated so far during inference time).
Both the encoder and decoder layers have a feed-forward neural network for additional processing of their outputs and contain residual connections and layer normalization steps. These feed-forward layers contain most of the parameters in a transformer model.


=== Feedforward network ===

The feedforward network (FFN) modules in a transformer are 2-layered multilayer perceptrons:
  
    
      
        
          F
          F
          N
        
        (
        x
        )
        =
        ϕ
        (
        x
        
          W
          
            (
            1
            )
          
        
        +
        
          b
          
            (
            1
            )
          
        
        )
        
          W
          
            (
            2
            )
          
        
        +
        
          b
          
            (
            2
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathrm {FFN} (x)=\phi (xW^{(1)}+b^{(1)})W^{(2)}+b^{(2)}}
  
where 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            (
            1
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{(1)}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            (
            2
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{(2)}}
  
 are weight matrices and 
  
    
      
        
          b
          
            (
            1
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle b^{(1)}}
  
 and  
  
    
      
        
          b
          
            (
            2
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle b^{(2)}}
  
 are bias vectors, and 
  
    
      
        ϕ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \phi }
  
 is its activation function. The original transformer used ReLU activation.
The number of neurons in the middle layer is called intermediate size (GPT), filter size (BERT), or feedforward size (BERT). It is typically larger than the embedding size. For example, in both GPT-2 series and BERT series, the intermediate size of a model is 4 times its embedding size: 
  
    
      
        
          d
          
            ffn
          
        
        =
        4
        
          d
          
            emb
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle d_{\text{ffn}}=4d_{\text{emb}}}
  
.


=== Scaled dot-product attention ===


==== Attention head ====

The attention mechanism used in the transformer architecture are scaled dot-product attention units. For each unit, the transformer model learns three weight matrices: the query weights 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            Q
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{Q}}
  
, the key weights 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            K
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{K}}
  
, and the value weights 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            V
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{V}}
  
.
The module takes three sequences, a query sequence, a key sequence, and a value sequence. The query sequence is a sequence of length 
  
    
      
        
          ℓ
          
            seq, query
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \ell _{\text{seq, query}}}
  
, and each entry is a vector of dimension 
  
    
      
        
          d
          
            emb, query
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle d_{\text{emb, query}}}
  
. Similarly for the key and value sequences.
For each vector 
  
    
      
        
          x
          
            i
            ,
            
              query
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle x_{i,{\text{query}}}}
  
 in the query sequence, it is multiplied by a matrix 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            Q
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{Q}}
  
 to produce a query vector 
  
    
      
        
          q
          
            i
          
        
        =
        
          x
          
            i
            ,
            
              query
            
          
        
        
          W
          
            Q
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle q_{i}=x_{i,{\text{query}}}W^{Q}}
  
. The matrix of all query vectors is the query matrix:
  
    
      
        Q
        =
        
          X
          
            query
          
        
        
          W
          
            Q
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle Q=X_{\text{query}}W^{Q}}
  
Similarly, we construct the key matrix 
  
    
      
        K
        =
        
          X
          
            key
          
        
        
          W
          
            K
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle K=X_{\text{key}}W^{K}}
  
 and the value matrix 
  
    
      
        V
        =
        
          X
          
            value
          
        
        
          W
          
            V
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle V=X_{\text{value}}W^{V}}
  
.
It is usually the case that all 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            Q
          
        
        ,
        
          W
          
            K
          
        
        ,
        
          W
          
            V
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{Q},W^{K},W^{V}}
  
 are square matrices, meaning 
  
    
      
        
          d
          
            emb, query
          
        
        =
        
          d
          
            query
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle d_{\text{emb, query}}=d_{\text{query}}}
  
, etc.
Attention weights are calculated using the query and key vectors: the attention weight 
  
    
      
        
          a
          
            i
            j
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle a_{ij}}
  
 from token 
  
    
      
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle i}
  
 to token 
  
    
      
        j
      
    
    {\displaystyle j}
  
 is the dot product between 
  
    
      
        
          q
          
            i
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle q_{i}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          k
          
            j
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle k_{j}}
  
. The attention weights are divided by the square root of the dimension of the key vectors, 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              
                k
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\sqrt {d_{k}}}}
  
, which stabilizes gradients during training, and passed through a softmax which normalizes the weights. The fact that 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            Q
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{Q}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            K
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{K}}
  
 are different matrices allows attention to be non-symmetric: if token 
  
    
      
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle i}
  
 attends to token 
  
    
      
        j
      
    
    {\displaystyle j}
  
 (i.e. 
  
    
      
        
          q
          
            i
          
        
        ⋅
        
          k
          
            j
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle q_{i}\cdot k_{j}}
  
 is large), this does not necessarily mean that token 
  
    
      
        j
      
    
    {\displaystyle j}
  
 will attend to token 
  
    
      
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle i}
  
 (i.e. 
  
    
      
        
          q
          
            j
          
        
        ⋅
        
          k
          
            i
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle q_{j}\cdot k_{i}}
  
 could be small). The output of the attention unit for token 
  
    
      
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle i}
  
 is the weighted sum of the value vectors of all tokens, weighted by 
  
    
      
        
          a
          
            i
            j
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle a_{ij}}
  
, the attention from token 
  
    
      
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle i}
  
 to each token.
The attention calculation for all tokens can be expressed as one large matrix calculation using the softmax function, which is useful for training due to computational matrix operation optimizations that quickly compute matrix operations. The matrices 
  
    
      
        Q
      
    
    {\displaystyle Q}
  
, 
  
    
      
        K
      
    
    {\displaystyle K}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        V
      
    
    {\displaystyle V}
  
 are defined as the matrices where the 
  
    
      
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle i}
  
th rows are vectors 
  
    
      
        
          q
          
            i
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle q_{i}}
  
, 
  
    
      
        
          k
          
            i
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle k_{i}}
  
, and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            i
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{i}}
  
 respectively. Then we can represent the attention as
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  Attention
                
                (
                Q
                ,
                K
                ,
                V
                )
                =
                
                  softmax
                
                
                  (
                  
                    
                      
                        Q
                        
                          K
                          
                            
                              T
                            
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          d
                          
                            k
                          
                        
                      
                    
                  
                  )
                
                V
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}{\text{Attention}}(Q,K,V)={\text{softmax}}\left({\frac {QK^{\mathrm {T} }}{\sqrt {d_{k}}}}\right)V\end{aligned}}}
  

where the softmax is applied over each of the rows of the matrix.
The number of dimensions in a query vector is query size 
  
    
      
        
          d
          
            query
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle d_{\text{query}}}
  
 and similarly for the key size 
  
    
      
        
          d
          
            key
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle d_{\text{key}}}
  
 and value size 
  
    
      
        
          d
          
            value
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle d_{\text{value}}}
  
. The output dimension of an attention head is its head dimension 
  
    
      
        
          d
          
            head
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle d_{\text{head}}}
  
. The attention mechanism requires the following three equalities to hold:
  
    
      
        
          ℓ
          
            seq, key
          
        
        =
        
          ℓ
          
            seq, value
          
        
        ,
        
        
          d
          
            query
          
        
        =
        
          d
          
            key
          
        
        ,
        
        
          d
          
            value
          
        
        =
        
          d
          
            head
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \ell _{\text{seq, key}}=\ell _{\text{seq, value}},\;d_{\text{query}}=d_{\text{key}},\;d_{\text{value}}=d_{\text{head}}}
  
but is otherwise unconstrained.
If the attention head is used in a self-attention fashion, then 
  
    
      
        
          X
          
            query
          
        
        =
        
          X
          
            key
          
        
        =
        
          X
          
            value
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle X_{\text{query}}=X_{\text{key}}=X_{\text{value}}}
  
. If the attention head is used in a cross-attention fashion, then usually 
  
    
      
        
          X
          
            query
          
        
        ≠
        
          X
          
            key
          
        
        =
        
          X
          
            value
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle X_{\text{query}}\neq X_{\text{key}}=X_{\text{value}}}
  
. It is theoretically possible for all three to be different, but that is rarely the case in practice.


==== Multihead attention ====

One set of 
  
    
      
        
          (
          
            
              W
              
                Q
              
            
            ,
            
              W
              
                K
              
            
            ,
            
              W
              
                V
              
            
          
          )
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \left(W^{Q},W^{K},W^{V}\right)}
  
 matrices is called an attention head, and each layer in a transformer model has multiple attention heads. While each attention head attends to the tokens that are relevant to each token, multiple attention heads allow the model to do this for different definitions of "relevance". Specifically, the query and key projection matrices, 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            Q
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{Q}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            K
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{K}}
  
 , which are involved in the attention score computation, defines the "relevance". Meanwhile, the value projection matrix 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            V
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{V}}
  
, in combination with the part of the output projection matrix 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            O
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{O}}
  
, determines how the attended tokens influence what information is passed to subsequent layers and ultimately the output logits. In addition, the scope of attention, or the range of token relationships captured by each attention head, can expand as tokens pass through successive layers. This allows the model to capture more complex and long-range dependencies in deeper layers. Many transformer attention heads encode relevance relations that are meaningful to humans. For example, some attention heads can attend mostly to the next word, while others mainly attend from verbs to their direct objects. The computations for each attention head can be performed in parallel, which allows for fast processing. The outputs for the attention layer are concatenated to pass into the feedforward neural network layers.
Concretely, let the multiple attention heads be indexed by 
  
    
      
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle i}
  
, then we have
  
    
      
        
          MultiheadAttention
        
        (
        Q
        ,
        K
        ,
        V
        )
        =
        
          
            Concat
          
          
            i
            ∈
            [
            
              n
              
                heads
              
            
            ]
          
        
        (
        
          Attention
        
        (
        X
        
          W
          
            i
          
          
            Q
          
        
        ,
        X
        
          W
          
            i
          
          
            K
          
        
        ,
        X
        
          W
          
            i
          
          
            V
          
        
        )
        )
        
          W
          
            O
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{MultiheadAttention}}(Q,K,V)={\text{Concat}}_{i\in [n_{\text{heads}}]}({\text{Attention}}(XW_{i}^{Q},XW_{i}^{K},XW_{i}^{V}))W^{O}}
  
 where the matrix 
  
    
      
        X
      
    
    {\displaystyle X}
  
 is the concatenation of word embeddings, and the matrices 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            i
          
          
            Q
          
        
        ,
        
          W
          
            i
          
          
            K
          
        
        ,
        
          W
          
            i
          
          
            V
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W_{i}^{Q},W_{i}^{K},W_{i}^{V}}
  
 are "projection matrices" owned by individual attention head 
  
    
      
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle i}
  
, and 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            O
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{O}}
  
 is a final projection matrix owned by the whole multihead attention head.
It is theoretically possible for each attention head to have a different head dimension 
  
    
      
        
          d
          
            head
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle d_{\text{head}}}
  
, but that is rarely the case in practice.
As an example, in the smallest GPT-2 model, there are only self-attention mechanisms. It has the following dimensions:
  
    
      
        
          d
          
            emb
          
        
        =
        768
        ,
        
          n
          
            head
          
        
        =
        12
        ,
        
          d
          
            head
          
        
        =
        64
      
    
    {\displaystyle d_{\text{emb}}=768,n_{\text{head}}=12,d_{\text{head}}=64}
  
Since 
  
    
      
        12
        ×
        64
        =
        768
      
    
    {\displaystyle 12\times 64=768}
  
, its output projection matrix 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            O
          
        
        ∈
        
          
            R
          
          
            (
            12
            ×
            64
            )
            ×
            768
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{O}\in \mathbb {R} ^{(12\times 64)\times 768}}
  
 is a square matrix.


==== Masked attention ====
The transformer architecture is constructed to calculate output tokens iteratively. Assuming 
  
    
      
        t
        =
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle t=0}
  
 refers to the calculation of the first output token 
  
    
      
        i
        =
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle i=0}
  
, for step 
  
    
      
        t
        >
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle t>0}
  
, the output token 
  
    
      
        i
        =
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle i=0}
  
 shall remain constant. This ensures properties of the model similar to autoregressive models. Therefore, at every time step 
  
    
      
        t
      
    
    {\displaystyle t}
  
, the calculation for all outputs 
  
    
      
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle i}
  
 should not have access to tokens at position 
  
    
      
        j
      
    
    {\displaystyle j}
  
 for 
  
    
      
        j
        >=
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle j>=i}
  
 (as it naturally is the case for time step 
  
    
      
        t
        =
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle t=i}
  
, when tokens 
  
    
      
        j
        >
        t
      
    
    {\displaystyle j>t}
  
 are not yet calculated). This behavior may be accomplished before the softmax stage by adding a mask matrix 
  
    
      
        M
      
    
    {\displaystyle M}
  
 that is 
  
    
      
        −
        ∞
      
    
    {\displaystyle -\infty }
  
 at entries where the attention link must be cut, and 
  
    
      
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle 0}
  
 at other places:
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  MaskedAttention
                
                (
                Q
                ,
                K
                ,
                V
                )
                =
                
                  softmax
                
                
                  (
                  
                    M
                    +
                    
                      
                        
                          Q
                          
                            K
                            
                              
                                T
                              
                            
                          
                        
                        
                          
                            d
                            
                              k
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                  
                  )
                
                V
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}{\text{MaskedAttention}}(Q,K,V)={\text{softmax}}\left(M+{\frac {QK^{\mathrm {T} }}{\sqrt {d_{k}}}}\right)V\end{aligned}}}
  
 The following matrix is commonly used in decoder self-attention modules, called "causal masking":
  
    
      
        
          M
          
            causal
          
        
        =
        
          
            [
            
              
                
                  0
                
                
                  −
                  ∞
                
                
                  −
                  ∞
                
                
                  …
                
                
                  −
                  ∞
                
              
              
                
                  0
                
                
                  0
                
                
                  −
                  ∞
                
                
                  …
                
                
                  −
                  ∞
                
              
              
                
                  0
                
                
                  0
                
                
                  0
                
                
                  …
                
                
                  −
                  ∞
                
              
              
                
                  ⋮
                
                
                  ⋮
                
                
                  ⋮
                
                
                  ⋱
                
                
                  ⋮
                
              
              
                
                  0
                
                
                  0
                
                
                  0
                
                
                  …
                
                
                  0
                
              
            
            ]
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle M_{\text{causal}}={\begin{bmatrix}0&-\infty &-\infty &\dots &-\infty \\0&0&-\infty &\dots &-\infty \\0&0&0&\dots &-\infty \\\vdots &\vdots &\vdots &\ddots &\vdots \\0&0&0&\dots &0\end{bmatrix}}}
  

In words, it means that each token can pay attention to itself, and every token before it, but not any after it. A non-masked attention module can be thought of as a masked attention module where the mask has all entries zero. As an example of an uncommon use of mask matrix, the XLNet considers all masks of the form 
  
    
      
        P
        
          M
          
            causal
          
        
        
          P
          
            −
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle PM_{\text{causal}}P^{-1}}
  
, where 
  
    
      
        P
      
    
    {\displaystyle P}
  
 is a random permutation matrix.


=== Encoder ===

An encoder consists of an embedding layer, followed by multiple encoder layers.
Each encoder layer consists of two major components: a self-attention mechanism and a feed-forward layer. It takes an input as a sequence of input vectors, applies the self-attention mechanism, to produce an intermediate sequence of vectors, then applies the feed-forward layer for each vector individually. Schematically, we have:
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  given input vectors 
                
              
              
                
                  h
                  
                    0
                  
                
                ,
                
                  h
                  
                    1
                  
                
                ,
                …
              
            
            
              
                
                  combine them into a matrix 
                
                H
              
              
                
                =
                
                  
                    [
                    
                      
                        
                          
                            h
                            
                              0
                            
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          
                            h
                            
                              1
                            
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          ⋮
                        
                      
                    
                    ]
                  
                
              
            
            
              
                
                  EncoderLayer
                
                (
                H
                )
              
              
                
                =
                
                  
                    [
                    
                      
                        
                          
                            FFN
                          
                          (
                          
                            MultiheadAttention
                          
                          (
                          H
                          ,
                          H
                          ,
                          H
                          
                            )
                            
                              0
                            
                          
                          )
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          
                            FFN
                          
                          (
                          
                            MultiheadAttention
                          
                          (
                          H
                          ,
                          H
                          ,
                          H
                          
                            )
                            
                              1
                            
                          
                          )
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          ⋮
                        
                      
                    
                    ]
                  
                
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}{\text{given input vectors }}&h_{0},h_{1},\dots \\{\text{combine them into a matrix }}H&={\begin{bmatrix}h_{0}\\h_{1}\\\vdots \end{bmatrix}}\\{\text{EncoderLayer}}(H)&={\begin{bmatrix}{\text{FFN}}({\text{MultiheadAttention}}(H,H,H)_{0})\\{\text{FFN}}({\text{MultiheadAttention}}(H,H,H)_{1})\\\vdots \end{bmatrix}}\\\end{aligned}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          FFN
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{FFN}}}
  
 stands for "feed-forward network". We can more succinctly write it as
  
    
      
        
          EncoderLayer
        
        (
        H
        )
        =
        
          FFN
        
        (
        
          MultiheadAttention
        
        (
        H
        ,
        H
        ,
        H
        )
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{EncoderLayer}}(H)={\text{FFN}}({\text{MultiheadAttention}}(H,H,H))}
  
with the implicit convention that the 
  
    
      
        
          FFN
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{FFN}}}
  
 is applied to each row of the matrix individually.
The encoder layers are stacked. The first encoder layer takes the sequence of input vectors from the embedding layer, producing a sequence of vectors. This sequence of vectors is processed by the second encoder, and so on. The output from the final encoder layer is then used by the decoder.
As the encoder processes the entire input all at once, every token can attend to every other token (all-to-all attention), so there is no need for causal masking.


=== Decoder ===

A decoder consists of an embedding layer, followed by multiple decoder layers, followed by an un-embedding layer.
Each decoder consists of three major components: a causally masked self-attention mechanism, a cross-attention mechanism, and a feed-forward neural network. The decoder functions in a similar fashion to the encoder, but an additional attention mechanism is inserted which instead draws relevant information from the encodings generated by the encoders. This mechanism can also be called the encoder–decoder attention.
Like the first encoder, the first decoder takes positional information and embeddings of the output sequence as its input, rather than encodings. The transformer must not use the current or future output to predict an output, so the output sequence must be partially masked to prevent this reverse information flow. This allows for autoregressive text generation. For decoding, all-to-all attention is inappropriate, because a token cannot attend to tokens not yet generated. Thus, the self-attention module in the decoder is causally masked.
In contrast, the cross-attention mechanism attends to the output vectors of the encoder, which is computed before the decoder starts decoding. Consequently, there is no need for masking in the cross-attention mechanism.
Schematically, we have:
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  H
                  ′
                
              
              
                
                =
                
                  MaskedMultiheadAttention
                
                (
                H
                ,
                H
                ,
                H
                )
              
            
            
              
                
                  DecoderLayer
                
                (
                H
                )
              
              
                
                =
                
                  FFN
                
                (
                
                  MultiheadAttention
                
                (
                
                  H
                  ′
                
                ,
                
                  H
                  
                    E
                  
                
                ,
                
                  H
                  
                    E
                  
                
                )
                )
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}H'&={\text{MaskedMultiheadAttention}}(H,H,H)\\{\text{DecoderLayer}}(H)&={\text{FFN}}({\text{MultiheadAttention}}(H',H^{E},H^{E}))\end{aligned}}}
  
where 
  
    
      
        
          H
          
            E
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle H^{E}}
  
 is the matrix with rows being the output vectors from the encoder.
The last decoder is followed by a final un-embedding layer to produce the output probabilities over the vocabulary. Then, one of the tokens is sampled according to the probability, and the decoder can be run again to produce the next token, etc., autoregressively generating output text.


== Full transformer architecture ==


=== Sublayers ===

Each encoder layer contains 2 sublayers: the self-attention and the feedforward network. Each decoder layer contains 3 sublayers: the causally masked self-attention, the cross-attention, and the feedforward network.

The final points of detail are the residual connections and layer normalization, (denoted as "LayerNorm", or "LN" in the following), which while conceptually unnecessary, are necessary for numerical stability and convergence.
The residual connections are introduced to avoid vanishing gradient issues and stabilize the training process. They can be expressed by 
  
    
      
        x
        ↦
        F
        (
        x
        )
        +
        x
      
    
    {\displaystyle x\mapsto F(x)+x}
  
, where 
  
    
      
        F
      
    
    {\displaystyle F}
  
 is a given component of the transformer. Adding the input 
  
    
      
        x
      
    
    {\displaystyle x}
  
 can preserve the input information and avoid issues when the gradient of 
  
    
      
        F
        (
        x
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle F(x)}
  
 is close to zero.
Similarly to how the feedforward network modules are applied individually to each vector, the LayerNorm is also applied individually to each vector.
There are two common conventions in use: the post-LN and the pre-LN convention. In the post-LN convention, the output of each sublayer is 
  
    
      
        
          L
          a
          y
          e
          r
          N
          o
          r
          m
        
        (
        x
        +
        
          S
          u
          b
          l
          a
          y
          e
          r
        
        (
        x
        )
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathrm {LayerNorm} (x+\mathrm {Sublayer} (x))}
  
where 
  
    
      
        
          S
          u
          b
          l
          a
          y
          e
          r
        
        (
        x
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathrm {Sublayer} (x)}
  
 is the function implemented by the sublayer itself.
In the pre-LN convention, the output of each sublayer is
  
    
      
        x
        +
        
          S
          u
          b
          l
          a
          y
          e
          r
        
        (
        
          L
          a
          y
          e
          r
          N
          o
          r
          m
        
        (
        x
        )
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle x+\mathrm {Sublayer} (\mathrm {LayerNorm} (x))}
  
The original 2017 transformer used the post-LN convention. It was difficult to train and required careful hyperparameter tuning and a "warm-up" in learning rate, where it starts small and gradually increases. The pre-LN convention, proposed several times in 2018, was found to be easier to train, requiring no warm-up, leading to faster convergence.


=== Pseudocode ===
The following is the pseudocode for a standard pre-LN encoder–decoder transformer, adapted from Formal Algorithms for Transformers.

input: Encoder input t_e
       Decoder input t_d
output: Array of probability distributions, with shape (decoder vocabulary size x length(decoder output sequence))

/* encoder */
z_e ← encoder.tokenizer(t_e)

for each t in 1:length(z_e) do
    z_e[t] ← encoder.embedding(z_e[t]) + encoder.positional_embedding(t)

for each l in 1:length(encoder.layers) do
    layer ← encoder.layers[l]

    /* first sublayer */
    z_e_copy ← copy(z_e)
    for each t in 1:length(z_e) do
        z_e[t] ← layer.layer_norm(z_e[t])
    z_e ← layer.multihead_attention(z_e, z_e, z_e)
    for each t in 1:length(z_e) do
        z_e[t] ← z_e[t] + z_e_copy[t]

    /* second sublayer */
    z_e_copy ← copy(z_e)
    for each t in 1:length(z_e) do
        z_e[t] ← layer.layer_norm(z_e[t])
    z_e ← layer.feedforward(z_e)
    for each t in 1:length(z_e) do
        z_e[t] ← z_e[t] + z_e_copy[t]

for each t in 1:length(z_e) do
    z_e[t] ← encoder.final_layer_norm(z_e[t])

/* decoder */
z_d ← decoder.tokenizer(t_d)

for each t in 1:length(z_d) do
    z_d[t] ← decoder.embedding(z_d[t]) + decoder.positional_embedding(t)

for each l in 1:length(decoder.layers) do
        layer ← decoder.layers[l]

        /* first sublayer */
        z_d_copy ← copy(z_d)
        for each t in 1:length(z_d) do
            z_d[t] ← layer.layer_norm(z_d[t])
        z_d ← layer.masked_multihead_attention(z_d, z_d, z_d)
        for each t in 1:length(z_d) do
            z_d[t] ← z_d[t] + z_d_copy[t]

        /* second sublayer */
        z_d_copy ← copy(z_d)
        for each t in 1:length(z_d) do
            z_d[t] ← layer.layer_norm(z_d[t])
        z_d ← layer.multihead_attention(z_d, z_e, z_e) 
       for each t in 1:length(z_d) do
           z_d[t] ← z_d[t] + z_d_copy[t]

        /* third sublayer */
        z_d_copy ← copy(z_d)
        for each t in 1:length(z_d) do
            z_d[t] ← layer.layer_norm(z_d[t])
        z_d ← layer.feedforward(z_d)
        for each t in 1:length(z_d) do
            z_d[t] ← z_d[t] + z_d_copy[t]

z_d ← decoder.final_layer_norm(z_d)

output_distributions ← []
for each t in 1:length(z_d) do
    output_distributions.append(decoder.unembed(z_d[t]))

return output_distributions


=== Terminology ===
The transformer architecture, being modular, allows variations. Several common variations are described here.
An "encoder-only" transformer applies the encoder to map an input text into a sequence of vectors that represent the input text. This is usually used for text embedding and representation learning for downstream applications. BERT is encoder-only. They are less often used currently, as they were found to be not significantly better than training an encoder–decoder transformer, then taking just the encoder. They are also referred to as "all-to-all" or "BERT-like".
A "decoder-only" transformer is not literally decoder-only, since without an encoder, the cross-attention mechanism has nothing to attend to. Thus, the decoder layers in a decoder-only transformer is composed of just two sublayers: the causally masked self-attention, and the feedforward network. This is usually used for text generation and instruction following. The models in the GPT series and Chinchilla series are decoder-only. They are also referred to as "autoregressive" or "causal".
An "encoder–decoder" transformer is generally the same as the original transformer, with 2 sublayers per encoder layer and 3 sublayers per decoder layer, etc. They might have minor architectural improvements, such as alternative activation functions, changing the location of normalization, etc. This is also usually used for text generation and instruction following. The models in the T5 series are encoder–decoder.
A "prefixLM" (prefix language model) is a decoder-only architecture, but with prefix masking, which is different from causal masking. Specifically, it has mask of the form
  
    
      
        
          M
          
            prefixLM
          
        
        =
        
          
            [
            
              
                
                  
                    0
                  
                
                
                  −
                  ∞
                
              
              
                
                  
                    0
                  
                
                
                  
                    M
                    
                      causal
                    
                  
                
              
            
            ]
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle M_{\text{prefixLM}}={\begin{bmatrix}\mathbf {0} &-\infty \\\mathbf {0} &M_{\text{causal}}\end{bmatrix}}}
  
where the first columns correspond to the "prefix", and the subsequent columns correspond to the autoregressively generated text based on the prefix. They resemble encoder–decoder models, but has less "sparsity". Such models are rarely used, though they are cited as theoretical possibilities and benchmarked comparisons.
There are also mixed seq2seq models. For example, in 2020, Google Translate replaced the previous RNN-encoder–RNN-decoder model with a transformer-encoder–RNN-decoder model, as transformer-based decoders did not appear to significantly increase quality unlike the encoder, while the RNN decoder was much faster.


== Subsequent work ==


=== Alternative activation functions ===
The original transformer uses ReLU activation function. Other activation functions were developed. The Llama series and PaLM used SwiGLU; both GPT-1 and BERT used GELU.
Alternative activation functions are often used in combination with Gated Linear Units in the feedforward module.


=== Alternative normalizations ===
The normalization used in the transformer can be different from LayerNorm. One example is RMSNorm which is used in the Llama series. Other examples include ScaleNorm and FixNorm.


=== Alternative positional encodings ===
Transformers may use other positional encoding methods than sinusoidal.
The original transformer paper reported using a learned positional encoding, but finding it not superior to the sinusoidal one. Later, found that causal masking itself provides enough signal to a transformer decoder that it can learn to implicitly perform absolute positional encoding without the positional encoding module.


==== RoPE ====
RoPE (rotary positional embedding), is best explained by considering a list of 2-dimensional vectors 
  
    
      
        [
        (
        
          x
          
            1
          
          
            (
            1
            )
          
        
        ,
        
          x
          
            1
          
          
            (
            2
            )
          
        
        )
        ,
        (
        
          x
          
            2
          
          
            (
            1
            )
          
        
        ,
        
          x
          
            2
          
          
            (
            2
            )
          
        
        )
        ,
        (
        
          x
          
            3
          
          
            (
            1
            )
          
        
        ,
        
          x
          
            3
          
          
            (
            2
            )
          
        
        )
        ,
        .
        .
        .
        ]
      
    
    {\displaystyle [(x_{1}^{(1)},x_{1}^{(2)}),(x_{2}^{(1)},x_{2}^{(2)}),(x_{3}^{(1)},x_{3}^{(2)}),...]}
  
. Now pick some angle 
  
    
      
        θ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \theta }
  
. Then RoPE encoding is
  
    
      
        
          RoPE
        
        
          
            (
          
        
        
          x
          
            m
          
          
            (
            1
            )
          
        
        ,
        
          x
          
            m
          
          
            (
            2
            )
          
        
        ,
        m
        
          
            )
          
        
        =
        
          
            (
            
              
                
                  cos
                  ⁡
                  m
                  θ
                
                
                  −
                  sin
                  ⁡
                  m
                  θ
                
              
              
                
                  sin
                  ⁡
                  m
                  θ
                
                
                  cos
                  ⁡
                  m
                  θ
                
              
            
            )
          
        
        
          
            (
            
              
                
                  
                    x
                    
                      m
                    
                    
                      (
                      1
                      )
                    
                  
                
              
              
                
                  
                    x
                    
                      m
                    
                    
                      (
                      2
                      )
                    
                  
                
              
            
            )
          
        
        =
        
          
            (
            
              
                
                  
                    x
                    
                      m
                    
                    
                      (
                      1
                      )
                    
                  
                  cos
                  ⁡
                  m
                  θ
                  −
                  
                    x
                    
                      m
                    
                    
                      (
                      2
                      )
                    
                  
                  sin
                  ⁡
                  m
                  θ
                
              
              
                
                  
                    x
                    
                      m
                    
                    
                      (
                      2
                      )
                    
                  
                  cos
                  ⁡
                  m
                  θ
                  +
                  
                    x
                    
                      m
                    
                    
                      (
                      1
                      )
                    
                  
                  sin
                  ⁡
                  m
                  θ
                
              
            
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{RoPE}}{\big (}x_{m}^{(1)},x_{m}^{(2)},m{\big )}={\begin{pmatrix}\cos m\theta &-\sin m\theta \\\sin m\theta &\cos m\theta \end{pmatrix}}{\begin{pmatrix}x_{m}^{(1)}\\x_{m}^{(2)}\\\end{pmatrix}}={\begin{pmatrix}x_{m}^{(1)}\cos m\theta -x_{m}^{(2)}\sin m\theta \\x_{m}^{(2)}\cos m\theta +x_{m}^{(1)}\sin m\theta \\\end{pmatrix}}}
  
Equivalently, if we write the 2-dimensional vectors as complex numbers 
  
    
      
        
          z
          
            m
          
        
        :=
        
          x
          
            m
          
          
            (
            1
            )
          
        
        +
        i
        
          x
          
            m
          
          
            (
            2
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle z_{m}:=x_{m}^{(1)}+ix_{m}^{(2)}}
  
, then RoPE encoding is just multiplication by an angle:
  
    
      
        
          RoPE
        
        
          
            (
          
        
        
          z
          
            m
          
        
        ,
        m
        
          
            )
          
        
        =
        
          e
          
            i
            m
            θ
          
        
        
          z
          
            m
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{RoPE}}{\big (}z_{m},m{\big )}=e^{im\theta }z_{m}}
  
For a list of 
  
    
      
        2
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle 2n}
  
-dimensional vectors, a RoPE encoder is defined by a sequence of angles 
  
    
      
        
          θ
          
            (
            1
            )
          
        
        ,
        .
        .
        .
        ,
        
          θ
          
            (
            n
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \theta ^{(1)},...,\theta ^{(n)}}
  
. Then the RoPE encoding is applied to each pair of coordinates.
The benefit of RoPE is that the dot-product between two vectors depends on their relative location only:
  
    
      
        
          RoPE
        
        
          
            (
          
        
        x
        ,
        m
        
          
            
              )
            
          
          
            T
          
        
        
          RoPE
        
        
          
            (
          
        
        y
        ,
        n
        
          
            )
          
        
        =
        
          RoPE
        
        
          
            (
          
        
        x
        ,
        m
        +
        k
        
          
            
              )
            
          
          
            T
          
        
        
          RoPE
        
        
          
            (
          
        
        y
        ,
        n
        +
        k
        
          
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{RoPE}}{\big (}x,m{\big )}^{T}{\text{RoPE}}{\big (}y,n{\big )}={\text{RoPE}}{\big (}x,m+k{\big )}^{T}{\text{RoPE}}{\big (}y,n+k{\big )}}
  

for any integer 
  
    
      
        k
      
    
    {\displaystyle k}
  
.


==== ALiBi ====
ALiBi (Attention with Linear Biases) is not a replacement for the positional encoder on the original transformer. Instead, it is an additional positional encoder that is directly plugged into the attention mechanism. Specifically, the ALiBi attention mechanism is
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  Attention
                
                (
                Q
                ,
                K
                ,
                V
                )
                =
                
                  softmax
                
                
                  (
                  
                    
                      
                        
                          Q
                          
                            K
                            
                              
                                T
                              
                            
                          
                        
                        
                          
                            d
                            
                              k
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    +
                    s
                    B
                  
                  )
                
                V
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}{\text{Attention}}(Q,K,V)={\text{softmax}}\left({\frac {QK^{\mathrm {T} }}{\sqrt {d_{k}}}}+sB\right)V\end{aligned}}}
  
Here, 
  
    
      
        s
      
    
    {\displaystyle s}
  
 is a real number ("scalar"), and 
  
    
      
        B
      
    
    {\displaystyle B}
  
 is the linear bias matrix defined by
  
    
      
        B
        =
        
          
            (
            
              
                
                  0
                
                
                  1
                
                
                  2
                
                
                  3
                
                
                  ⋯
                
              
              
                
                  −
                  1
                
                
                  0
                
                
                  1
                
                
                  2
                
                
                  ⋯
                
              
              
                
                  −
                  2
                
                
                  −
                  1
                
                
                  0
                
                
                  1
                
                
                  ⋯
                
              
              
                
                  −
                  3
                
                
                  −
                  2
                
                
                  −
                  1
                
                
                  0
                
                
                  ⋯
                
              
              
                
                  ⋮
                
                
                  ⋮
                
                
                  ⋮
                
                
                  ⋮
                
                
                  ⋱
                
              
            
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle B={\begin{pmatrix}0&1&2&3&\cdots \\-1&0&1&2&\cdots \\-2&-1&0&1&\cdots \\-3&-2&-1&0&\cdots \\\vdots &\vdots &\vdots &\vdots &\ddots \\\end{pmatrix}}}
  
in other words, 
  
    
      
        
          B
          
            i
            ,
            j
          
        
        =
        j
        −
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle B_{i,j}=j-i}
  
. The idea being that the linear bias matrix is a softened mask. Just as 
  
    
      
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle 0}
  
 represent full attention paid, and 
  
    
      
        −
        ∞
      
    
    {\displaystyle -\infty }
  
 represents no attention paid, the linear bias matrix increases attention paid in one direction and decreases attention paid in the other direction.
ALiBi allows pretraining on short context windows, then fine-tuning on longer context windows. Since it is directly plugged into the attention mechanism, it can be combined with any positional encoder that is plugged into the "bottom" of the entire network (which is where the sinusoidal encoder on the original transformer, as well as RoPE and many others, are located).


==== Relative Position Encodings ====
Relative Position Encodings is similar to ALiBi, but more generic:
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  Attention
                
                (
                Q
                ,
                K
                ,
                V
                )
                =
                
                  softmax
                
                
                  (
                  
                    
                      
                        
                          Q
                          
                            K
                            
                              
                                T
                              
                            
                          
                        
                        
                          
                            d
                            
                              k
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                    +
                    B
                  
                  )
                
                V
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}{\text{Attention}}(Q,K,V)={\text{softmax}}\left({\frac {QK^{\mathrm {T} }}{\sqrt {d_{k}}}}+B\right)V\end{aligned}}}
  
where 
  
    
      
        B
      
    
    {\displaystyle B}
  
 is a Toeplitz matrix, that is, 
  
    
      
        
          B
          
            i
            ,
            j
          
        
        =
        
          B
          
            
              i
              ′
            
            ,
            
              j
              ′
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle B_{i,j}=B_{i',j'}}
  
 whenever 
  
    
      
        i
        −
        j
        =
        
          i
          ′
        
        −
        
          j
          ′
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle i-j=i'-j'}
  
. This is contrasted with the original sinusoidal positional encoding, which is an "absolute positional encoding".


=== Efficient implementation ===
The transformer model has been implemented in standard deep learning frameworks such as TensorFlow and PyTorch. Transformers is a library produced by Hugging Face that supplies transformer-based architectures and pretrained models.


==== KV caching ====
When an autoregressive transformer is used for inference, such as generating text, the query vector is different at each step, but the already-computed key and value vectors are always the same. The KV caching method saves the computed key and value vectors at each attention block, so that they are not recomputed at each new token. PagedAttention applies memory paging to KV caching.
If a transformer is used with a baked-in prompt, such as ["You are a customer support agent..."], then the key and value vectors can be computed for the prompt, and saved on disk. The saving in compute is significant when the model is used for many short real-time interactions, such as in online chatbots.
In general, when a user uses an autoregressive transformer to generate a continuation to a sequence of tokens, the model would first perform a forward-pass on this sequence, whereby the KV caches over this sequence are computed. This is called prefilling. Hyperscalers serving large Transformer models may use disaggregated inference, wherein prefilling and decoding are performed on separately specialized hardware.


==== FlashAttention ====
FlashAttention is an algorithm that implements the transformer attention mechanism efficiently on a GPU. It is a communication-avoiding algorithm that performs matrix multiplications in blocks, such that each block fits within the cache of a GPU, and by careful management of the blocks it minimizes data copying between GPU caches (as data movement is slow).
The FlashAttention method is a communication-avoiding algorithm that fuses these operations into a single loop, increasing the arithmetic intensity. It is an online algorithm that computes the following quantities:
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  z
                  
                    i
                  
                
              
              
                
                =
                
                  q
                  
                    T
                  
                
                
                  k
                  
                    i
                  
                
              
              
            
            
              
                
                  m
                  
                    i
                  
                
              
              
                
                =
                max
                (
                
                  z
                  
                    1
                  
                
                ,
                …
                ,
                
                  z
                  
                    i
                  
                
                )
              
              
                =
                

                
              
              
                
                max
                (
                
                  m
                  
                    i
                    −
                    1
                  
                
                ,
                
                  z
                  
                    i
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              
                
                  ℓ
                  
                    i
                  
                
              
              
                
                =
                
                  e
                  
                    
                      z
                      
                        1
                      
                    
                    −
                    
                      m
                      
                        i
                      
                    
                  
                
                +
                ⋯
                +
                
                  e
                  
                    
                      z
                      
                        i
                      
                    
                    −
                    
                      m
                      
                        i
                      
                    
                  
                
              
              
                =
                

                
              
              
                
                  e
                  
                    
                      m
                      
                        i
                        −
                        1
                      
                    
                    −
                    
                      m
                      
                        i
                      
                    
                  
                
                
                  ℓ
                  
                    i
                    −
                    1
                  
                
                +
                
                  e
                  
                    
                      z
                      
                        i
                      
                    
                    −
                    
                      m
                      
                        i
                      
                    
                  
                
              
            
            
              
                
                  o
                  
                    i
                  
                
              
              
                
                =
                
                  e
                  
                    
                      z
                      
                        1
                      
                    
                    −
                    
                      m
                      
                        i
                      
                    
                  
                
                
                  v
                  
                    1
                  
                
                +
                ⋯
                +
                
                  e
                  
                    
                      z
                      
                        i
                      
                    
                    −
                    
                      m
                      
                        i
                      
                    
                  
                
                
                  v
                  
                    i
                  
                
              
              
                =
                

                
              
              
                
                  e
                  
                    
                      m
                      
                        i
                        −
                        1
                      
                    
                    −
                    
                      m
                      
                        i
                      
                    
                  
                
                
                  o
                  
                    i
                    −
                    1
                  
                
                +
                
                  e
                  
                    
                      z
                      
                        i
                      
                    
                    −
                    
                      m
                      
                        i
                      
                    
                  
                
                
                  v
                  
                    i
                  
                
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}z_{i}&=q^{T}k_{i}&\\m_{i}&=\max(z_{1},\dots ,z_{i})&={}&\max(m_{i-1},z_{i})\\\ell _{i}&=e^{z_{1}-m_{i}}+\dots +e^{z_{i}-m_{i}}&={}&e^{m_{i-1}-m_{i}}\ell _{i-1}+e^{z_{i}-m_{i}}\\o_{i}&=e^{z_{1}-m_{i}}v_{1}+\dots +e^{z_{i}-m_{i}}v_{i}&={}&e^{m_{i-1}-m_{i}}o_{i-1}+e^{z_{i}-m_{i}}v_{i}\end{aligned}}}
  
and returns 
  
    
      
        
          o
          
            N
          
        
        
          /
        
        
          ℓ
          
            N
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle o_{N}/\ell _{N}}
  
. In practice, FlashAttention operates over multiple queries and keys per loop iteration, in a similar way as blocked matrix multiplication. If backpropagation is needed, then the output vectors and the intermediate arrays 
  
    
      
        [
        
          m
          
            1
          
        
        ,
        …
        ,
        
          m
          
            N
          
        
        ]
        ,
        [
        
          ℓ
          
            1
          
        
        ,
        …
        ,
        
          ℓ
          
            N
          
        
        ]
      
    
    {\displaystyle [m_{1},\dots ,m_{N}],[\ell _{1},\dots ,\ell _{N}]}
  
 are cached, and during the backward pass, attention matrices are rematerialized from these, making it a form of gradient checkpointing.

An improved version, FlashAttention-2, was developed to cater to the rising demand for language models capable of handling longer context lengths. It offers enhancements in work partitioning and parallelism, enabling it to achieve up to 230 TFLOPs/s on A100 GPUs (FP16/BF16), a 2x speed increase over the original FlashAttention.
Key advancements in FlashAttention-2 include the reduction of non-matmul FLOPs, improved parallelism over the sequence length dimension, better work partitioning between GPU warps, and added support for head dimensions up to 256 and multi-query attention (MQA) and grouped-query attention (GQA).
Benchmarks revealed FlashAttention-2 to be up to 2x faster than FlashAttention and up to 9x faster than a standard attention implementation in PyTorch. Future developments include optimization for new hardware like H100 GPUs and new data types like FP8.
FlashAttention-4 focuses on pipelining to increase instruction throughput, and was developed to perform particularly well on Blackwell GPUs.


==== Multi-Query Attention ====

Multi-Query Attention changes the Multihead Attention mechanism. Whereas normally,

  
    
      
        
          MultiheadAttention
        
        (
        Q
        ,
        K
        ,
        V
        )
        =
        
          
            Concat
          
          
            i
            ∈
            [
            
              n
              
                heads
              
            
            ]
          
        
        
          (
          
            
              Attention
            
            (
            X
            
              W
              
                i
              
              
                Q
              
            
            ,
            X
            
              W
              
                i
              
              
                K
              
            
            ,
            X
            
              W
              
                i
              
              
                V
              
            
            )
          
          )
        
        
          W
          
            O
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{MultiheadAttention}}(Q,K,V)={\text{Concat}}_{i\in [n_{\text{heads}}]}\left({\text{Attention}}(XW_{i}^{Q},XW_{i}^{K},XW_{i}^{V})\right)W^{O}}
  
with Multi-Query Attention, there is just one 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            K
          
        
        ,
        
          W
          
            V
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{K},W^{V}}
  
, thus:

  
    
      
        
          MultiQueryAttention
        
        (
        Q
        ,
        K
        ,
        V
        )
        =
        
          
            Concat
          
          
            i
            ∈
            [
            
              n
              
                heads
              
            
            ]
          
        
        
          (
          
            
              Attention
            
            (
            X
            
              W
              
                i
              
              
                Q
              
            
            ,
            X
            
              W
              
                K
              
            
            ,
            X
            
              W
              
                V
              
            
            )
          
          )
        
        
          W
          
            O
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{MultiQueryAttention}}(Q,K,V)={\text{Concat}}_{i\in [n_{\text{heads}}]}\left({\text{Attention}}(XW_{i}^{Q},XW^{K},XW^{V})\right)W^{O}}
  

This has a neutral effect on model quality and training speed, but increases inference speed.
More generally, grouped-query attention (GQA) partitions attention heads into groups, each of which shares the key-value pair. MQA is GQA with one group, while standard Multihead Attention is GQA with the maximal number of groups.

Multihead Latent Attention (MLA) is a low-rank approximation to standard MHA. Specifically, each hidden vector, before entering the attention mechanism, is first projected to two low-dimensional spaces ("latent space"), one for query and one for key-value (KV vector). This design minimizes the KV cache, as only the low-dimensional KV vector needs to be cached.


==== Speculative decoding ====

Speculative decoding is a method to accelerate token decoding. Similarly to speculative execution in CPUs, future tokens are computed quickly, then verified. If the quickly computed tokens are incorrect, they are discarded and computed slowly.
The key factor in speculative decoding is that a transformer decoder can verify faster than it can decode, in the following sense.
Suppose we have two transformer models like GPT-3 and GPT-3-small, both with a context window size of 512. To generate an entire context window autoregressively with greedy decoding with GPT-3, it must be run for 512 times, each time generating a token 
  
    
      
        
          x
          
            1
          
        
        ,
        
          x
          
            2
          
        
        ,
        .
        .
        .
        ,
        
          x
          
            512
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle x_{1},x_{2},...,x_{512}}
  
, taking time 
  
    
      
        512
        
          T
          
            GPT-3
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle 512T_{\text{GPT-3}}}
  
. However, if we had some educated guess for the values of these tokens, we could verify all of them in parallel, in one run of the model, by checking that each 
  
    
      
        
          x
          
            t
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle x_{t}}
  
 is indeed the token with the largest log-likelihood in the 
  
    
      
        t
      
    
    {\displaystyle t}
  
-th output.
In speculative decoding, a smaller model or some other simple heuristic is used to generate a few speculative tokens that are subsequently verified by the larger model. For example, suppose we use GPT-3-small to generate four speculative tokens: 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                x
                ~
              
            
          
          
            1
          
        
        ,
        
          
            
              
                x
                ~
              
            
          
          
            2
          
        
        ,
        
          
            
              
                x
                ~
              
            
          
          
            3
          
        
        ,
        
          
            
              
                x
                ~
              
            
          
          
            4
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\tilde {x}}_{1},{\tilde {x}}_{2},{\tilde {x}}_{3},{\tilde {x}}_{4}}
  
. This only takes 
  
    
      
        4
        
          T
          
            GPT-3-small
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle 4T_{\text{GPT-3-small}}}
  
. These tokens are then run through the larger GPT-3 in one go. Suppose that 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                x
                ~
              
            
          
          
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\tilde {x}}_{1}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                x
                ~
              
            
          
          
            2
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\tilde {x}}_{2}}
  
 are verified by GPT-3 as what it would have picked, then those are kept, but 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                x
                ~
              
            
          
          
            3
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\tilde {x}}_{3}}
  
 is not, so 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                x
                ~
              
            
          
          
            3
          
        
        ,
        
          
            
              
                x
                ~
              
            
          
          
            4
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\tilde {x}}_{3},{\tilde {x}}_{4}}
  
 are discarded, and GPT-3 is run on those. This would take 
  
    
      
        4
        
          T
          
            GPT-3-small
          
        
        +
        3
        
          T
          
            GPT-3
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle 4T_{\text{GPT-3-small}}+3T_{\text{GPT-3}}}
  
, which might be shorter than 
  
    
      
        4
        
          T
          
            GPT-3
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle 4T_{\text{GPT-3}}}
  
.
For non-greedy decoding, similar ideas apply, except the speculative tokens are accepted or rejected stochastically, in a way that guarantees the final output distribution is the same as if speculative decoding was not used.

In Multi-Token Prediction, a single forward pass creates a final embedding vector, which then is un-embedded into a token probability. However, that vector can then be further processed by another transformer block to predict the next token, and so on for arbitrarily many steps into the future. This trades off accuracy for speed, since each new token costs just one more transformer block, rather than the entire stack.


=== Sub-quadratic transformers ===
Training transformer-based architectures can be expensive, especially for long inputs. Many methods have been developed to attempt to address the issue. In the image domain, Swin transformer is an efficient architecture that performs attention inside shifting windows. In the audio domain, SepTr decouples the attention in time and frequency domains. Long Range Arena (2020) is a standard benchmark for comparing the behavior of transformer architectures over long inputs.


==== Alternative attention graphs ====
The standard attention graph is either all-to-all or causal, both of which scales as 
  
    
      
        O
        (
        
          N
          
            2
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle O(N^{2})}
  
 where 
  
    
      
        N
      
    
    {\displaystyle N}
  
 is the number of tokens in a sequence.
Reformer (2020) reduces the computational load from 
  
    
      
        O
        (
        
          N
          
            2
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle O(N^{2})}
  
 to 
  
    
      
        O
        (
        N
        ln
        ⁡
        N
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle O(N\ln N)}
  
 by using locality-sensitive hashing and reversible layers.
Sparse attention uses attention graphs that grows slower than 
  
    
      
        O
        (
        
          N
          
            2
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle O(N^{2})}
  
. For example, BigBird (2020) uses random small-world networks which grows as 
  
    
      
        O
        (
        N
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle O(N)}
  
.
Ordinary transformers require a memory size that is quadratic in the size of the context window. Attention-free transformers reduce this to a linear dependence while still retaining the advantages of a transformer by linking the key to the value.


==== Random Feature Attention ====
Random Feature Attention (2021) uses Fourier random features:
  
    
      
        φ
        (
        x
        )
        =
        
          
            1
            
              D
            
          
        
        [
        cos
        ⁡
        ⟨
        
          w
          
            1
          
        
        ,
        x
        ⟩
        ,
        sin
        ⁡
        ⟨
        
          w
          
            1
          
        
        ,
        x
        ⟩
        ,
        ⋯
        cos
        ⁡
        ⟨
        
          w
          
            D
          
        
        ,
        x
        ⟩
        ,
        sin
        ⁡
        ⟨
        
          w
          
            D
          
        
        ,
        x
        ⟩
        
          ]
          
            T
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \varphi (x)={\frac {1}{\sqrt {D}}}[\cos \langle w_{1},x\rangle ,\sin \langle w_{1},x\rangle ,\cdots \cos \langle w_{D},x\rangle ,\sin \langle w_{D},x\rangle ]^{T}}
  
where 
  
    
      
        
          w
          
            1
          
        
        ,
        .
        .
        .
        ,
        
          w
          
            D
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle w_{1},...,w_{D}}
  
 are independent samples from the normal distribution 
  
    
      
        N
        (
        0
        ,
        
          σ
          
            2
          
        
        I
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle N(0,\sigma ^{2}I)}
  
. This choice of parameters satisfy 
  
    
      
        
          E
        
        [
        ⟨
        φ
        (
        x
        )
        ,
        φ
        (
        y
        )
        ⟩
        ]
        =
        
          e
          
            −
            
              
                
                  ‖
                  x
                  −
                  y
                  
                    ‖
                    
                      2
                    
                  
                
                
                  2
                  
                    σ
                    
                      2
                    
                  
                
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {E} [\langle \varphi (x),\varphi (y)\rangle ]=e^{-{\frac {\|x-y\|^{2}}{2\sigma ^{2}}}}}
  
, or 
  
    
      
        
          e
          
            ⟨
            x
            ,
            y
            ⟩
            
              /
            
            
              σ
              
                2
              
            
          
        
        =
        
          E
        
        [
        ⟨
        
          e
          
            ‖
            x
            
              ‖
              
                2
              
            
            
              /
            
            2
            
              σ
              
                2
              
            
          
        
        φ
        (
        x
        )
        ,
        
          e
          
            ‖
            y
            
              ‖
              
                2
              
            
            
              /
            
            2
            
              σ
              
                2
              
            
          
        
        φ
        (
        y
        )
        ⟩
        ]
        ≈
        ⟨
        
          e
          
            ‖
            x
            
              ‖
              
                2
              
            
            
              /
            
            2
            
              σ
              
                2
              
            
          
        
        φ
        (
        x
        )
        ,
        
          e
          
            ‖
            y
            
              ‖
              
                2
              
            
            
              /
            
            2
            
              σ
              
                2
              
            
          
        
        φ
        (
        y
        )
        ⟩
      
    
    {\displaystyle e^{\langle x,y\rangle /\sigma ^{2}}=\mathbb {E} [\langle e^{\|x\|^{2}/2\sigma ^{2}}\varphi (x),e^{\|y\|^{2}/2\sigma ^{2}}\varphi (y)\rangle ]\approx \langle e^{\|x\|^{2}/2\sigma ^{2}}\varphi (x),e^{\|y\|^{2}/2\sigma ^{2}}\varphi (y)\rangle }
  
Consequently, the one-headed attention, with one query, can be written as 
  
    
      
        
          Attention
        
        (
        q
        ,
        K
        ,
        V
        )
        =
        
          softmax
        
        
          (
          
            
              
                q
                
                  K
                  
                    
                      T
                    
                  
                
              
              
                
                  d
                  
                    k
                  
                
              
            
          
          )
        
        V
        ≈
        
          
            
              φ
              (
              q
              
                )
                
                  T
                
              
              
                ∑
                
                  i
                
              
              
                e
                
                  ‖
                  
                    k
                    
                      i
                    
                  
                  
                    ‖
                    
                      2
                    
                  
                  
                    /
                  
                  2
                  
                    σ
                    
                      2
                    
                  
                
              
              φ
              (
              
                k
                
                  i
                
              
              )
              
                v
                
                  i
                
                
                  T
                
              
            
            
              φ
              (
              q
              
                )
                
                  T
                
              
              
                ∑
                
                  i
                
              
              
                e
                
                  ‖
                  
                    k
                    
                      i
                    
                  
                  
                    ‖
                    
                      2
                    
                  
                  
                    /
                  
                  2
                  
                    σ
                    
                      2
                    
                  
                
              
              φ
              (
              
                k
                
                  i
                
              
              )
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{Attention}}(q,K,V)={\text{softmax}}\left({\frac {qK^{\mathrm {T} }}{\sqrt {d_{k}}}}\right)V\approx {\frac {\varphi (q)^{T}\sum _{i}e^{\|k_{i}\|^{2}/2\sigma ^{2}}\varphi (k_{i})v_{i}^{T}}{\varphi (q)^{T}\sum _{i}e^{\|k_{i}\|^{2}/2\sigma ^{2}}\varphi (k_{i})}}}
  
where 
  
    
      
        σ
        =
        
          d
          
            K
          
          
            1
            
              /
            
            4
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \sigma =d_{K}^{1/4}}
  
. Similarly for multiple queries, and for multihead attention.
This approximation can be computed in linear time, as we can compute the matrix 
  
    
      
        φ
        (
        
          k
          
            i
          
        
        )
        
          v
          
            i
          
          
            T
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \varphi (k_{i})v_{i}^{T}}
  
 first, then multiply it with the query. In essence, we have managed to obtain a more precise version of 
  
    
      
        
          Attention
        
        (
        Q
        ,
        K
        ,
        V
        )
        =
        
          softmax
        
        
          (
          
            
              
                Q
                
                  K
                  
                    
                      T
                    
                  
                
              
              
                
                  d
                  
                    k
                  
                
              
            
          
          )
        
        V
        ≈
        Q
        (
        
          K
          
            T
          
        
        V
        
          /
        
        
          
            
              d
              
                k
              
            
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{Attention}}(Q,K,V)={\text{softmax}}\left({\frac {QK^{\mathrm {T} }}{\sqrt {d_{k}}}}\right)V\approx Q(K^{T}V/{\sqrt {d_{k}}})}
  
Performer (2022) uses the same Random Feature Attention, but 
  
    
      
        
          w
          
            1
          
        
        ,
        .
        .
        .
        ,
        
          w
          
            D
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle w_{1},...,w_{D}}
  
 are first independently sampled from the normal distribution 
  
    
      
        N
        (
        0
        ,
        
          σ
          
            2
          
        
        I
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle N(0,\sigma ^{2}I)}
  
, then they are Gram–Schmidt processed.


=== Multimodality ===
Transformers can also be used/adapted for modalities (input or output) beyond just text, usually by finding a way to "tokenize" the modality.
Multimodal models can either be trained from scratch, or by finetuning. A 2022 study found that transformers pretrained only on natural language can be finetuned on only 0.03% of parameters and become competitive with LSTMs on a variety of logical and visual tasks, demonstrating transfer learning. The LLaVA was a vision-language model composed of a language model (Vicuna-13B) and a vision model (ViT-L/14), connected by a linear layer. Only the linear layer is finetuned.
Vision transformers adapt the transformer to computer vision by breaking down input images as a series of patches, turning them into vectors, and treating them like embedding vector of tokens in a standard transformer.
Conformer and later Whisper follow the same pattern for speech recognition, first turning the speech signal into a spectrogram, which is then treated like an image, i.e. broken down into a series of patches, turned into vectors and treated like embedding vector of tokens in a standard transformer.
Perceivers are a variant of transformers designed for multimodality.
For image generation, notable architectures are DALL-E 1 (2021), Parti (2022), Phenaki (2023), and Muse (2023). Unlike later models, DALL-E is not a diffusion model. Instead, it uses a decoder-only transformer that autoregressively generates a text, followed by the token representation of an image, which is then converted by a variational autoencoder to an image. Parti is an encoder–decoder transformer, where the encoder processes a text prompt, and the decoder generates a token representation of an image. Muse is an encoder-only transformer that is trained to predict masked image tokens from unmasked image tokens. During generation, all input tokens are masked, and the highest-confidence predictions are included for the next iteration, until all tokens are predicted. Phenaki is a text-to-video model. It is a bidirectional masked transformer conditioned on pre-computed text tokens. The generated tokens are then decoded to a video.


== Applications ==
The transformer has had great success in natural language processing (NLP). Many large language models such as GPT-2, GPT-3, GPT-4, Gemini, AlbertAGPT, Claude, BERT, Grok, XLNet, RoBERTa and ChatGPT demonstrate the ability of transformers to perform a wide variety of NLP-related subtasks and their related real-world applications, including:

machine translation
time series prediction
document summarization
document generation
named entity recognition (NER)
writing computer code based on requirements expressed in natural language.
speech-to-text
Beyond traditional NLP, the transformer architecture has had success in other applications, such as:

biological sequence analysis
video understanding
protein folding (such as AlphaFold)
evaluating chess board positions. Using static evaluation alone (that is, with no Minimax search) transformer achieved an Elo of 2895, putting it at grandmaster level.
service function chain embedding


== See also ==
seq2seq – Family of machine learning approaches
Circuit (neural network) – Interpretable computational sub-graphs within artificial neural networks
Perceiver – Variant of Transformer designed for multimodal data
Vision transformer – Machine learning model for vision processing
Large language model – Type of machine learning model
BERT (language model) – Series of language models developed by Google AI
Generative pre-trained transformer – Type of large language model
T5 (language model) – Series of large language models developed by Google AI


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Further reading ==

"Clubland" is a song written by new wave musician Elvis Costello and performed by Costello and the Attractions on their 1981 album, Trust. Written in 1980, the song was performed live in festivals before the album's release. The lyrics, inspired by the band's most recent tour, describe life in nightclubs, while the music includes inspiration from The Police.
The song was released as the first single from Trust in December 1980, backed by two unreleased songs from the Armed Forces sessions. It under-performed as a single compared to the band's previous releases, reaching number 60, but has been praised by critics.


== Background ==
"Clubland" had been written in the summer of 1980, before the recording of the Trust album. A demo of the song was created during this same time. Early versions of the song and other songs from Trust, including "From a Whisper to a Scream", "You'll Never Be a Man", and "Lover's Walk", were debuted at the band's festival appearances in 1980, such as the band's performance at the Montreux Jazz Festival.
In his memoir, Unfaithful Music & Disappearing Ink, Costello writes that the lyrical inspiration for the song, as well as other songs on Trust such as "Pretty Words" and "White Knuckles", comes from the Get Happy!! tour. The song's lyrics detail the nightlife and club scene, containing multiple double entendres and puns. Musically, Costello claims that his guitar work on the song was inspired by new wave band The Police. Costello later described "Clubland" as "'Message in a Bottle' with a middle eight". He recalled,

Oddest of all, it now occurs to me the circular arpeggios in "Clubland" may have secretly been a disrespectful gloss of the Police's guitar style, though obviously with a darker lyrical content that their songs always seemed to lack.
The song also contains "quasi-latin" piano work by Steve Nieve and drumming by Pete Thomas that is, according to Jim Beviglia of American Songwriter, "all over the place propelling the song in different directions without ever getting in the way of the tune". Costello claimed in the liner notes for Trust that the studio version of the song was lacking in comparison to later renditions.


== Recording ==
During the album's recording, Costello and the Attractions had "approached this song as if it were to be the next in our only recently broken run of hit singles". Producer Nick Lowe had fallen ill with the flu and was absent during much of the song's recording, Costello explained,

We continued to record for several days without Nick Lowe while he was down with the flu. And the record of "Clubland" probably never did recover from his absence. Although the arrangement was strong, I now see why Nick had some reservations about our master take upon his return to the studio. At the time I was adamant that this was the version to be mixed, although I have heard the same arrangement played to very much better effect on many occasions since.


== Release ==
"Clubland" was released as a single in Britain in December 1980, prior to the release of Trust. The single featured "Clean Money" and "Hoover Factory" on the B-side. "Clean Money"—which was rejected from Armed Forces in favour of "Accidents Will Happen"—was inspired by Cheap Trick's In Color and was dismissed by Costello as "an overly powdered-up rocker". "Hoover Factory", recorded in 1979, was written before Costello signed his first contract and was originally intended to be the B-side to the "Oliver's Army" single. "Clubland" was not released as a single in the United States, where "Watch Your Step" was released instead.
The "Clubland" single was a chart disappointment, only reaching number 60 on the British charts. This ended Costello's streak of nine Top 40 British singles that he had held since "Watching the Detectives" reached number 15. The second British single from Trust, "From a Whisper to a Scream", failed to chart at all, despite the guest appearance of Squeeze singer Glenn Tilbrook. Costello would return to the Top 40 in 1981, when "Good Year for the Roses" reached number six.
A music video for "Clubland" was produced to accompany the song's single release. Costello recalled, "The video was made on the rather sedate Channel Island of Jersey. I believe the young lady in the pink champagne scenes was actually the very respectable daughter of a local magistrate".


== Reception ==
Despite a lack of commercial success, "Clubland" has received positive reception from critics. Blender praised the song's "peerless acid-tongue", while Stephen Thomas Erlewine lauded its "jazzy flourishes". Stewart Mason of AllMusic labeled the song "both an entirely typical Elvis Costello song ... and a harbinger of a new and more mature sound" and noted that the "somewhat meandering melody of the verses ... contrast nicely with the urgent, pumping chorus". Jim Beviglia of American Songwriter ranked the song as the eleventh best Elvis Costello song ever, calling the song "a powerful indictment of any scene where greed and the pursuit of pleasure take the place of restraint and common sense".
Comedian Adam Carolla praised the song in his book In Fifty Years We'll All Be Chicks, writing of radio during the 1980s, "We could be hearing 'Clubland' by Elvis Costello or 'Stupefaction' by Graham Parker, but instead we get 'The Safety Dance' by Men Without Hats."


== Charts ==


== References ==

Rizvan Daniyalovich Kurbanov (Russian: Ризван Даниялович Курбанов; born 3 January 1961 in Buynaksk, Dagestan ASSR) is a Russian political figure and deputy of the 6th, 7th, and 8th State Dumas.
Kurbanov worked at the Dagestan prosecutor's office first as an investigator then as the deputy prosecutor of the republic. Later he continued his career at the Department of the Ministry of Justice for the Central Federal District. In 2010 he was appointed first vice-president of Dagestan. The next year, he was elected deputy of the 6th State Duma. In 2016 and 2021, he was re-elected for the 7th, and 8th State Dumas. In the Duma, he joined the Committee on Security and Anti-Corruption and Commission for the Investigation of the Interference of Foreign States in the Internal Affairs of Russia
In 2010, Kurbanov was granted a Doctor of Sciences in Juridical sciences degree. However, in 2018 he was accused of plagiarism by professor Alexey Grishkovets who recognized in Kurbanov's work his own dissertation defended in 2004.


== Sanctions ==
He was sanctioned by Canada under the Special Economic Measures Act (S.C. 1992, c. 17) in relation to the Russian invasion of Ukraine for Grave Breach of International Peace and Security, and by the UK government in 2022 in relation to Russo-Ukrainian War.


== Awards ==
Order of Courage


== References ==

The Type 90 Pneumatic Torpedo (九〇式空気式魚雷, designated for Imperial Japanese calendar year 2590) was a 61 cm (24 in)-diameter surface-fired torpedo used by the Imperial Japanese Navy during World War II. It was notably first used in the Hatsuharu-class destroyers and in most cruisers, including the Furutaka, Aoba, Myoko, Takao, and Mogami-class heavy cruisers after refits during the 1930s. It is an evolution of the 8th Year Type torpedo and was superseded by the Type 93 oxygen torpedo, commonly called the Long Lance, as oxygen generating equipment was installed aboard surface ships.


== Development ==
The torpedo was based on a newly developed British 46-knot (85 km/h) 21-inch (53 cm) Whitehead torpedo. This weapon used a new double-action two-cylinder engine rather than the four-cylinder radial engine used by World War I-era British torpedoes. It was significantly faster (8–10 knots (15–19 km/h)), although it had a much shorter range (only 10,000 m (11,000 yd)) than the Japanese 6th and 8th Year torpedoes. Twenty of these were bought with training warheads in 1926 for ¥30,000 each; the British allowed Japanese technicians to observe the manufacturing process and launch trials. Japan bought a manufacturing license in 1928 for ¥150,000.
The Japanese did not actually manufacture any of these torpedoes, but combined their technology with the results of independent Japanese research to produce the 61 cm Type 90. Testing of the prototypes was prolonged by the need to correct a number of design errors and manufacturing defects, but two prototypes were turned over to the Underwater School in 1931 for practical use. It was informally adopted for use in 1932, but not officially accepted until 15 November 1933. Production initially began at the Kure Naval Arsenal, but the Yokosuka and Sasebo Naval Arsenals began production later.


== Description ==
The Type 90 had an actual diameter of 60.9 cm (24.0 in), weighed 2.54 tonnes (2.50 long tons; 2.80 short tons) and was 8.485 m (27 ft 10.1 in) long. It was very fast for the period and had an endurance of 7,000 m (7,700 yd) at 46 knots (85 km/h); 10,000 m (11,000 yd) at 42 knots (78 km/h); and 15,000 m (16,000 yd) at 35 knots (65 km/h). It was a wet-heater design and mixed kerosene with compressed air to further expand the air used to power the two-cylinder engine. The engine was cooled by saltwater and the resulting steam was recycled for use by the engine. Its warhead weighed 400 kg (880 lb), its air chamber was pressurized at 220 bars (3,200 psi).
It was pneumatically launched from the torpedo tubes, in either a three or four tubes closed launchers configurations.


== Service history ==
Despite the invention of the more modern and famous type 93 "long lance" torpedo, they were only introduced for the Shiratsuyu class destroyers and following designs, and the Mutsuki, Fubuki, Akatsuki, and Hatsuharu class destroyers were still loaded with type 90 torpedoes between the start of the war to mid 1943, and thus the torpedo saw some good use during the first year of the war.
List of ships sunk or damaged by type 90 torpedoes
HMAS Perth: Australian light cruiser sunk partly by torpedoes from the destroyers Murakumo and Shirakumo, battle of Sunda Strait, 1 March 1942  
USS Houston: A crippled American heavy cruiser finished off by a torpedo from the destroyer Shikinami, battle of Sunda Strait, 1 March 1942 
HMS Exeter: An already sinking British heavy cruiser hit by torpedoes from the destroyer Inazuma, battle of the Java Sea, 1 March 1942
SS Dardanus; British passenger ship sunk partly by torpedoes from the destroyer Amagiri, Indian Ocean Raid, 6 April 1942 
SS Gandara: British steamship sunk partly by torpedoes from Amagiri, Indian Ocean Raid, 6 April 1942 
USS Vincennes: American heavy cruiser sunk partly by a torpedo from the light cruiser Yūbari, battle of Savo Island, 9 August 1942
USS Atlanta: American light cruiser sunk primarily by a torpedo from the destroyer Ikazuchi, naval battle of Guadalcanal, 13 November 1942
USS Portland: American heavy cruiser badly damaged by a torpedo from the Inazuma, naval battle of Guadalcanal, 13 November 1942
USS Preston: American destroyer sunk partly by a torpedo from the destroyer Ayanami, naval battle of Guadalcanal, 15 November 1942 
USS Benham: American destroyer sunk by a torpedo, possibly from the destroyer Shirayuki, naval battle of Guadalcanal, 15 November 1942 


== Citations ==


== Readings ==
Campbell, John (2002). Naval Weapons of World War Two. London: Conway Maritime Press. ISBN 0-87021-459-4.
Lengerer, Hans (2007). The Japanese Destroyers of the Hatsuharu Class. Warship 2007. London: Conway. pp. 91–110. ISBN 978-1-84486-041-8.OCLC 77257764
Masataka Chiyaka; Yasuo Abe (1972). Warship Profile 22; IJN Yukikaze/Destroyer/1939-1970. Profile Publications Ltd.
O'Hara, Vincent (2009). Struggle for the Middle Sea: The Great Navies at War in the Mediterranean Theater, 1940–1945. Annapolis, Maryland: Naval Institute Press. ISBN 978-1-59114-648-3.
Hornfischer, James D. (2011). Neptune's Inferno: The U.S. Navy at Guadalcanal. New York: Bantam Books. ISBN 978-0-553-80670-0.


== External links ==
"Japan Torpedoes Pre-World War II". 15 March 2008. Retrieved 14 July 2009.

CombinedFleet info on torpedoes
Taietsu Shigoku info on torpedoes (Japanese)

United Nations Security Council Resolution 276, adopted on January 30, 1970, after reaffirming previous resolutions and statements, the Council condemned South Africa's continued occupation of Namibia as illegal and decided to establish an ad hoc sub-committee to study the ways and means by which the Council's resolutions could be implemented.  The Council requested all states and organizations give the sub-committee all the information and other assistance it may require and further requested the Secretary-General to give every assistance to the sub-committee.
The Council decided to resume consideration of the question of Namibia as soon as the recommendations of the sub-committee have been made available.
The resolution was adopted with 13 votes; France and the United Kingdom abstained.
An advisory opinion concerning Resolution 276, issued on 21 June 1971 by the International Court of Justice (I.C.J), gave rise to the term Namibia exception.


== See also ==
History of Namibia
List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 201 to 300 (1965–1971)
South West Africa


== References ==


== Sources ==
Text of the Resolution at undocs.org


== External links ==
 Works related to United Nations Security Council Resolution 276 at Wikisource

Busturialdea, also named Busturialde - Urdaibai is a comarca of the province of Biscay, in the Basque Country, Spain. It is the heir of "Busturia", one of the original merindades that used to compose the province of Biscay – this should not be confused with Busturia, a municipality located in this region. Busturialdea is a diminished portion of the same original subregion and has two capital cities; Bermeo and Gernika-Lumo. It is one of the seven comarcas that compose the province of Biscay.


== History ==

Busturia used to be one of the merindades of Biscay and included a larger territory than the current one of Busturialdea, as it reached the province of Gipuzkoa.
Busturialdea was historically the core of Biscay: the capitals of the province, Bermeo and Gernika, were located in it; the village of Mundaka, also belonging to this region, had the privilege of speaking always first in the sessions of its parliament and for some time, the harbour of Bermeo was the main portuary facility, until Bilbao was founded in 1300.
Busturialdea and its lush estuary was also important in prehistory. Particularly significant is its site of Santimamiñe cave, that yielded a full sequence of human habitation from Neanderthals to the Iron Age, and beautiful Magdalenian cave paintings.


== Geography ==
Busturialdea is located at the north of the province of Biscay, limiting with the comarcas of Lea-Artibai on the east, Uribe and Greater Bilbao on the west and Durangaldea on the south. The Bay of Biscay limits at north.
The comarca is located along the Urdaibai estuary, which has been named Biosphere Reserve by UNESCO in 1984


== Municipalities ==


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Busturialdea at Wikimedia Commons

Charles W. Cradick (February 11, 1896 – January 14, 1954) was an American attorney and political campaign manager who worked primarily in Los Angeles, California. Cradick's clients included the California Amusement Machines Operators Association (CAMOA), which was accused by civic reformers of being a front for a slot-machine racket, and the Hollywood film actress Barbara Stanwyck.


== Biography ==
Cradick was born in Kentucky in 1896. Cradick joined the Louisville Police Department when he was 16 years old, and first passed the bar in Kentucky. Craddick served with the American military in World War I. He came to California in 1924. One of his early law partners, Dailey Stafford, later became a superior court judge. He worked as a campaign manager for William I. Traeger in both his campaign for Los Angeles County Sheriff and for the U.S. Congress. Film industry clients included "Jackie Coogan's mother" and Barbara Stanwyck. Cradick represented Stanwyck in her custody dispute with Frank Fay; according to a January 1938 news report, "Under an order issued last week by Superior Judge Goodwin J. Knight, Fay was given the right to see the son, Anthony Dion, twice a week. Charles W. Cradick, attorney for Miss Stanwyck, appealed the decision and advised the auburn-haired film star she did not have to obey Judge Knight's orders until she knew the outcome of the appeal".
When Fletcher Bowron replaced Frank L. Shaw as mayor following the 1938 Los Angeles mayoral recall election, Bowron oversaw a drastic house cleaning of the Los Angeles Police Department and told reporters asking about personnel changes in 1939: "No one is satisfied with the department except Bob Gans, Charley Craddick, and Chuck Addison". Later in the year, after Bowron introduced Los Angeles Proposition No. 3 banning slot machines and pinball and similar within city limits, Cradick led the political campaign urging a "no" vote on the December ballot.
According to a Los Angeles Herald Examiner article about 1930s municipal corruption, when Guy McAfee took over a great deal of the organized crime in the city, he was assisted by what was called the Syndicate, which included slot-machine king Gans, political fixer Kent Parrot, "king of the bookies" Zeke Caress, bookmaker and (later) casino developer Tutor Scherer, club owner and bookmaker Farmer Page, bookmaker Chuck Addison, rum runner turned gambling-ship operator Tony Cornero, and attorney Charles Cradick. As the Los Angeles Times put it in 1954, "Cradick frequently was called to testify before federal and county grand juries regarding vice conditions and bribery charges". In the early 1940s, an ex-FBI agent planted a bug in Cradick's office in hopes of getting evidence of wrongdoing, but Cradick found it and spent two weeks sending the agent (and his employers in Mayor Bowron's office) on a merry chase after false evidence and invented events. In the late 1940s, Cradick worked out of offices on Vermont Avenue.
Cradick died of an abdominal cancer at Cedars of Lebanon Hospital in Los Angeles, after three surgeries over two years failed to halt the progress of the disease. After Cradick's death, Matt Weinstock included an anecdote about him in one of his regular newspaper columns: "Atty. Charles Cradick, who died last week, had a reputation for forthright speech. Years ago, while in charge of a political campaign, he hired a former congressman to make speeches. The former congressman was fond of relating his oratorial triumphs and bragging how he could hold an audience in the palm of his hand. One day Cradick asked him, 'Did you ever hear of Jack Dempsey?' 'Why of course.' the speaker said, 'I've met him. Why?' 'Well,' drawled Cradick, 'he never had to tell anybody he could fight. They found it out.'" When he died in 1954, the Los Angeles Times described Cradick as an important "'behind-the-scenes' political strategist in Los Angeles for a quarter century".
Cradick left no will, but his widow was appointed administrator of his estate, valued at $174,000, although the estate was owed $112,000 more from the sale of Cradick's 112 ft (34 m) power yacht, the Maria Ines. However, payments on the purchase of the Maria Ines were in default at the time Cradick's former secretary "Miss Sybil Adams, 38" filed an additional $48,000 claim against the estate. She claimed that Cradick still owed her money from the sale of "207 shares each formerly held in the Normandie Club, a Gardena poker palace," and that Mrs. Cradick's request for a monthly allowance of $1,000 from the value of the estate was unreasonable since "the Cradicks had been living apart for many years and that he had not supported Mrs. Cradick in such style. Mrs. Cradick denied from the witness stand there had ever been a separation". The judge granted Mrs. Cradick $500 a month pending the settlement of the estate.


== See also ==
Sam Rummel – American attorney and murder victim (1906–1950)


== References ==

Incisive Media is a business-to-business financial company based in London, England.


== History ==
Incisive Media is a business-to-business (B2B) financial company founded by Tim Weller, in 1994 with the launch of Investment Week.  It acquired Timothy Benn Publishing (owner of Post Magazine) in August 2000. During the next six years the business completed a number of acquisitions including Matching Hat, Risk Waters, Initiative Europe (Unquote), Search Engine Strategies, Global Professional Media, Asian Venture Capital Journal and Pacific Prospect. However, as a public company it was difficult to take advantage of some of the larger consolidation opportunities that existed, so in December 2006 Tim Weller led a management buyout deal backed by Apax Partners that valued Incisive Media at £275 million.
Within a few months of going private, Incisive Media completed the acquisitions of MSM International and UK publishing business VNU Business Publications Ltd, formerly part of The Nielsen Company, from venture capital group 3i in 2007. In August 2007 the company completed a deal to acquire ALM, an American magazine publisher that was backed by Bruce Wasserstein, which greatly increased Incisive Media's profits.
However, following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers and the 2008 financial crisis, Incisive Media's markets came under significant pressure. In October 2009 Incisive Media undertook a financial restructuring to cut the costs and stabilize.
In January 2016 Incisive sold the British magazine Legal Week to the US legal business publisher ALM.
In April 2022, Arc and The Channel Company acquired Incisive Media.


=== 11 September 2001 attacks ===
On 11 September 2001 Incisive Media―at the time known as Risk Waters―was hosting a conference at Windows on the World, a restaurant located on the 106th and 107th floors of the North Tower of the World Trade Center. The people who attended the meeting were killed during the attack on the towers.


== References ==

Anchon dukei is a species of treehoppers in the subfamily Centrotinae described by Alfred Lawrence Capener in 1972. It is found in South Africa and derives its name from Arthur Duke, who discovered the species and collected the initial specimens that Capener used to make his formal description.


== Description ==
Individuals of Anchon Dukei are considered very close in appearance to those of Anchon Nodicornis, but with slight variations in the length of their horns, setae, and wing coloring. Males are primarily black in color and are between 5.2 and 5.8 millimeters in length. Females have similar coloring and are slightly larger, ranging from 5.9 to 6.9 millimeters in length.


== Ecology ==
Specimens of Anchon Dukei have been collected from host blackberry plants in the genus Rubus.


== References ==

Cockett (Welsh: Y Cocyd) is a district and community in Swansea, Wales falling within Cockett ward.  It is located about 1.5 miles (2.4 km) north-west of Swansea city centre. It includes the eastern half of Gowerton.
Cockett, in common with much of western Swansea, was the result of late Victorian and early twentieth century expansion.  More housing estates were developed during the 20th century and further housing was constructed near the Townhill district in the early 2000s.  The area now has a broad mix of housing stock.  83 per cent of the property in the Cockett neighbourhood is owner occupied.  The South Wales Police regional headquarters for Swansea were based in Cockett, as is Dylan Thomas Community School. The South Wales Police regional headquarters are now located closer to the city centre however. There are a few shops in central Cockett, but the nearest shopping districts are on Carmarthen Road (A483) to the north and the Swansea West Business Park to the north-west.
The main road through Cockett is the A4216 road linking Sketty to the south with Fforestfach to the north.  Cockett railway station is a currently disused railway station to the north, by Station Road.  The old platforms on the West Wales Lines are still in place and there are proposals by South West Wales Integrated Transport Consortium to reinstate this station in the future, which would provide a 10-minute journey to Swansea railway station in the city centre.  Cockett is served by First Cymru buses from Swansea bus station: numbers 15 and 17 to Gowerton; number 43 to Morriston Hospital and numbers 400 and 404 to Llanelli.


== References ==

The Capture of Las Tunas was a military engagement of the Cuban War of Independence. It took place from August 27 to 30, 1897 at Las Tunas, Oriente.


== The Capture ==
In the final days of August 1897, the forces commanded by Lieutenant General Calixto García laid siege to the important military plaza of Victoria de Las Tunas which was almost uninhabited, since most of its inhabitants had gone to the jungle.
After three days of bloody combat, the Cuban forces managed to make the Spanish garrison surrender and capture the plaza, after which they set it on fire, but not before seizing important caches of weapons and ammunition, as well as food and medicine. The casualties of the battle consisted of 29 killed and 60 wounded for the Cubans and 161 killed, 176 wounded and 409 captured.


== Aftermath ==

The Capture of Las Tunas represented an important military victory for the Cuban Liberation Army, as well as a demoralizing defeat for the Spanish Army. At the media level, it served to discredit the propaganda campaign that Captain General Valeriano Weyler carried out about his supposed "pacification" of Cuba and the supposed "success" of his feared and despised reconcentration policy of him. It represented one of the last Spanish military defeats, before the dismissal of Weyler as head of Cuba and the promulgation, in November of the same year, of the Autonomy Charter of Cuba, which sought to placate independence spirits by granting autonomy, something that didn't work either.


== References ==


=== Further reading ===
Manuel Sanguily (1897). Victoria de Las Tunas; bosquejo del asalto y toma de Las Tunas de Bayamo en agosto de 1897 por fuerzas cubanas al mando del mayor-general Calixto García Íñiguez (in Spanish). New York.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)

Julie Tan Shao Yin (born 22 September 1992)  is a Singaporean actress and video game streamer. She was the female lead in That Girl in Pinafore.


== Early life ==
Tan was born in Malaysia. She received her education in Singapore and studied Drama at the Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts.


== Career ==
In 2008, she debuted in the telemovie The Promise as a girl with intellectual disability. She was also the first runner-up in The New Paper's New Face.
In 2010, Tan starred in television episodes, including The Illusionist, No Limits and New Beginnings. She auditioned for Alpha Entertainment in 2011, and was given a chance to be part of K-pop girl group Skarf, which she turned down. She worked in television dramas A Tale of 2 Cities and A Song to Remember, as one of the female leads.
In 2013, she starred in movies Judgement Day and That Girl in Pinafore. She became the host for A Date with K-pop Stars, which debuted on 21 February 2014, where she travelled to South Korea and spent time with idols.
In 2013, Tan got her first individual lead role starring in 96°C Café. In the same year, she also starred in Gonna Make It. In 2015, Tan starred in The Dream Makers II as the main villain. It was her breakthrough role and she won her first acting award starring as Dong Zihuai in the drama. In May 2016, it was announced that Tan will take a 6-month break from acting in order to take a four-month acting course at New York Film Academy's school of acting.


== Personal life ==
Tan struggled with childhood trauma and self-harm when she was young, and had gone through treatment with her mother when she was between seven and twelve years old.
Tan revealed that she started her oocyte cryopreservation procedure in August 2023, after ending a 4-year relationship.


== Filmography ==


=== Television series ===


=== Film ===


== Awards and nominations ==


== References ==

Joan Lyn Slonczewski (born August 14, 1956) is an American microbiologist at Kenyon College and a science fiction writer who explores biology and space travel. Their books have twice earned the John W. Campbell Memorial Award for Best Science Fiction Novel: A Door into Ocean (1987) and The Highest Frontier (2011). With John W. Foster and Erik Zinser, they coauthor the textbook, Microbiology: An Evolving Science (W. W. Norton) now in its fifth edition.


== Biography ==
Slonczewski was born in August 14, 1956 at Hyde Park, New York and raised in Katonah, New York.
They earned an A.B. in biology, magna cum laude, from Bryn Mawr College in 1977. Slonczewski completed a PhD in Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry from Yale University in 1982 and post-doctoral work at the University of Pennsylvania studying calcium flux in leukocyte chemotaxis. Since 1984 they have taught at Kenyon College, taking sabbatical leaves at Princeton University and the University of Maryland, Baltimore. Slonczewski's research focuses on the pH (environmental) stress response in Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis using genetic techniques.
Slonczewski teaches both biology and science fiction courses. From 1996 through 2008, they have been awarded Howard Hughes Medical Institute funding for undergraduate biological sciences education, which they have used to improve science instruction and to foster summer science fellowships for minority and first-generation students.
Dr. Slonczewski was the Hal Clement Science Speaker in February 2011 at the Boskone 48 convention.
Slonczewski is also a member of the Quakers and Quakerism is featured in many of their novels.


== Fiction ==
Slonczewski's 1986 Campbell Award-winning novel A Door into Ocean shows their command of genetics and ecological science, as well as commitment to pacifism and feminism. It depicts the ecosystem of a planet covered entirely by water, inhabited by an exclusively female race of genetic engineers. Daughters of Elysium (1993), The Children Star (1998), and Brain Plague (2000) are loose sequels.
A serialization of Slonczewski's The Children Star (1998) appeared in Analog Science Fiction and Fact, a magazine known for hard science fiction.
Brain Plague (2000) depicts a world where intelligent microbes inhabit human brains.  The microbial aliens have potential for great good as well as great evil. They evolve in the same way as pathogens such as HIV or as symbionts such as our digestive bacteria, which help keep humans healthy. Brain Plague tells of a future in which genetic engineering, combined with nanotechnology, can do everything from shaping our bodies to growing enormous buildings for us. In an interview on their writing, Slonczewski related: "One time in class, my students were discussing my book Brain Plague. I asked the class, 'Is this book liberal or conservative?' A student said, 'It's conservative, because all the characters are married.' Another student jumped up, 'It is not conservative!' Half the book's marriages are gay – with a few robots included."
The Highest Frontier (2011) is a coming of age story about the first year in college of Jennifer Ramos Kennedy, a member of the ongoing Kennedy political dynasty.   The year is 2108 and Jenny is attending Frontera College, which is located in a space habitation.  The earth is being destroyed by human-made ecological catastrophes blamed on the "ultraphytes," UV-photosynthetic plant-animals from outer space. Some political factions are promoting space habitats as a solution, but the spacehabs can only accommodate a tiny percentage of the human population. The political system is grid locked. The Highest Frontier addresses political, social, and environmental issues.


== Awards ==
Robert Tomsich Award, for outstanding achievement in research in science, Kenyon College, 2001.
Silver Medalist, National Professor of the Year program, Council for the Advancement and Support of Education, Washington DC, 1989.
John W. Campbell Memorial Award for Best Science Fiction Novel, A Door into Ocean, 1987.
John W. Campbell Memorial Award for Best Science Fiction Novel, The Highest Frontier, 2012.


== Bibliography ==


=== Standalone Novels ===
—— (1980). Still Forms on Foxfield. Tor Books. ISBN 9780380753284.
—— (1989). The Wall Around Eden. Tor Books. ISBN 9781557100306.
—— (2011). The Highest Frontier. Tor Books. ISBN 9780765329561.


=== The Elysium Cycle ===
—— (1986). A Door into Ocean. Tor Books. ISBN 9780877957638.
—— (1993). Daughter of Elysium. Tor Books. ISBN 9780380972227.
—— (1998). The Children Star. Tor Books. ISBN 9780312867164.
—— (2000). Brain Plague. Tor Books. ISBN 9780312867188.
—— (2025). Minds in Transit. CAEZIK SF & Fantasy. ISBN 9781647101732.


=== Science publications ===
J. L. Slonczewski, John W. Foster and Erik Zinser, 2020, Microbiology: An Evolving Science 5E, a core microbiology textbook for undergraduate science majors, W. W. Norton & Co., New York. ISBN 0-393-97857-5


== References ==


== External links ==

Joan Slonczewski site
Ultraphyte author blog
Illustrated guide to A Door into Ocean
Joan Slonczewski paper on Bacteriology
Joan Slonczewski selected as Keynote Speaker for Science and Science Fiction Conference
Joan Slonczewski at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
Making Strange Stuff Familiar: A Conversation with Joan Slonczewski (interview) at Clarkesworld Magazine, 10/2011
Joan Slonczewski: Field of Discovery, Interview at Locus magazine, March 2014
Review of 'Posthuman Biopolitics: The Science Fiction of Joan Slonczewski' by B.L. Rockwood. SFRA Review 2022

Linga is a small island off Hildasay in the Shetland Islands. It is one of the Scalloway Islands. Haswell-Smith compares Hildasay and the adjacent islands to a yeti's footprint, with Linga as the big toe.
Between Linga and Hildasay lie the Hogg of Linga, the Hogg of Hildasay and "the Skerry".
In the 19th century, like neighbouring Hildasay, it was inhabited and constituted its own croft. At the censuses of 1871 and 1881, the population numbered 12 and 10, respectively.
Papa and Oxna are a few miles to the south.


== Development Plans ==
As of July 2021, Monaco-based entrepreneur, John Scott plans to restore the ruined crofts on Linga.


== References ==

Jimma Teachers College is a college in Jimma, Oromia Region, Ethiopia.
Established in 1969 as the Teachers Training Institute, it trained elementary school teachers in the country. In 1995, the institute upgraded to a college.
Jimma College of Teachers Education (Jimma CTE) is located 347 km (216 mi) southwest of Addis Ababa and about 2.5 km (1.6 mi) to the northeast of Jimma City Centre. Jimma CTE is one of several regional Teachers’ Training Colleges in Ethiopia established specifically to produce qualified teachers for primary schools (grades 1–8). In accordance with the 1994 National Education and Training Policy, Jimma CTE was upgraded from a Teachers’ Training Institute (TTI) as it had been for 28 years (1961-1988 E.C.) and, as a college, launched its first two-year Training Program (Diploma Program) in July 1988 E.C. during the summer semester.
It goes without saying that such an important educational change-over as the inauguration of Jimma CTE, which took place after nearly three decades after the institution's inception as a TTI, caused a certain excitement as well as some anxiety amongst those who were closely affiliated to the college. The transformation required great imagination and better physical resources and, although Jimma CTE still has a long way to go before it becomes a fully-grown institution of higher education, it has made a good start towards meeting the growing regional demand for qualified primary school teachers.


== See also ==
List of universities and colleges in Ethiopia
Education in Ethiopia


== References ==

Lance Cargill (born September 13, 1971) is an American lawyer and Republican politician from the U.S. state of Oklahoma. Cargill served as Speaker of the Oklahoma House of Representatives from January 2, 2007, to January 28, 2008. He resigned his leadership role due to tax and ethics controversies and was succeeded as speaker by Chris Benge.
Since leaving the Oklahoma legislature, Cargill has neither run for nor held an elective office. He has shifted his focus to serving as a political consultant. He has formed various partnerships, and is headquartered in his hometown of Harrah (a suburb of Oklahoma City). Mostly, he seems to promote lesser-known Republican candidates who share his very strong conservative views.


== Early life ==

Cargill was born and raised in Harrah, Oklahoma, where he attended Harrah Public Schools. After graduating from high school, Cargill moved to Stillwater, Oklahoma, where he attended Oklahoma State University–Stillwater. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree. He then attended the Vanderbilt University Law School and earned a Juris Doctor.


== Political career ==
Cargill was first elected to the Oklahoma House in 2000 and served four terms in that body. In 2004, he won his re-election with more than 70% of the vote. In December 2006, Cargill was selected by his party to serve as the Speaker of the Oklahoma House of Representatives. He was formally elected on the constitutionally-mandated organizational day on January 2, 2007. At the time of his election, Cargill was the youngest state house speaker in the United States.
One of Cargill's noteworthy achievements was to head up a 100 ideas Oklahoma campaign.


== Resignation as speaker after tax and ethics problems ==
On January 28, 2008, following heavy criticism for his failure to pay state taxes in a timely manner and questions about questionable fundraising activities by a PAC he led in 2006, Cargill resigned as Speaker of the House. In a press release, he stated that news accounts about his personal issues were overshadowing the important work ahead for legislators. He remained in the Legislature as a state representative, and did not file for re-election to his seat in 2008.
On August 29, 2009, the Oklahoma Ethics Commission publicly reprimanded both Cargill and the Oklahoma County Republican Party for their role in the controversial PAC.


== Post-speakership political activity ==
Cargill has neither held nor run for elective office since leaving the speakership. Instead, he has acted as a political consultant, frequently assisting other Republicans vying for state offices. A news article in 2013, identified him as an example of many former candidates, who had not filed the required quarterly reports regarding their campaign finance activities for each campaign. Each candidate is required by law to file the quarterly "Statement of Inactivity" until a final statement is issued officially closing the campaign.
The Temple Daily Telegram reported in 2015, that Lance Cargill (former Oklahoma state Speaker of the House) was serving as political consultant to Christopher "C.J." Grisham of Temple, who was a candidate for Texas Senate District 24.


== See also ==
51st Oklahoma Legislature


== Notes ==


== References ==

Reading Scientific Services Ltd. (RSSL) is a British company that provides scientific analysis, consultancy, product development and training to the global food, drink, healthcare, pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and consumer goods sectors. It has been inspected by regulatory authorities including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency and the United Kingdom Accreditation Service.
RSSL was formed in 1987 out of Cadbury Schweppes Research and Development. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Mondelēz International. RSSL is based at two sites on the Whiteknights Campus of the University of Reading. The headquarters and main laboratories are based at the Reading Science Centre.
RSSL offers a range of testing services including Pharmaceutical, Biopharmaceutical and Food & Consumer Goods testing.
BioPharmaceutical testing services include Biopharma Forced Degradation Studies, Biopharma GMP Release Testing, Biosimilar Characterisation, Biopharma Stability Studies, Extractables & Leachables, Glycosylation Analysis, Mycoplasma Testing, Process & Product Related Impurities, Protein, Peptide & Glycoprotein Analysis and Subvisible Particle Analysis
GMP Quality Control Analysis services include Finished Product & Release Testing, Herbals & Natural Products, ICH Stability Studies, Medical Devices, Method Transfer, Microbiological Analysis, Pharmacopoeial Analysis, Sub-visible Particle Analysis
Problem Solving & Contaminant Identification services include Contamination Chemical, Contamination Physical, Counterfeit Investigation, Impurity Isolation & Sample Purification, Process & Product Related Impurities, Pharmaceutical Consultancy, Physical & Structural Characterisation, Sub-visible Particle Analysis and a 24/7 Emergency Response Service.
R&D Support Services include Biopharma Forced Degradation Studies, Extractables & Leachables, Formulation & Support, ICH Stability Studies, Impurity Isolation & Sample Purification, Method Development & Validation, Pharmaceutical Cleaning Validation, Physical & Structural Characterisation, Protein, Peptide & Glycoprotein Analysis
Food & FMCG Testing Services include Allergen Management and Ingredient and Product Analysis
Allergen Analysis services consist of  Allergen Consultancy, Allergen Training, Food Consultancy & Training
Ingredient & Product Analysis services include Authenticity, Claim Substantiation, Fats & Oils Analysis, Flavour & Aroma Profiling, Genetically Modified Food, Meat & Fish Species Identification, Natural Product & Supplement Analysis, Olive Oil & Speciality Oil Authenticity, Physical & Structural Properties, Vitamin Analysis


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Pharmaceutical Testing Services
Biopharmaceutical Services
Food & Consumer Goods Testing Services
Reading Scientific Services on LinkedIn

Bur oak blight (BOB) is a fungal disease that is relatively new to the plant pathogen field. BOB started to appear in Midwestern states in the 1990s. The first few diagnoses pointed to a common fungus, Tubakia dryina, as the culprit. However upon further research BOB was said to be caused by a new unnamed species of Tubakia, later named Tubakia iowensis. BOB has severe symptoms and is a serious new problem.


== Hosts and symptoms ==
The host for this disease is the bur oak, Quercus macrocarpa. Research shows that Q. macrocarpa var. olivaeformis tends to be the most susceptible to the pathogen, but the more common and widespread Q. macrocarpa var. macrocarpa has also been affected by BOB. Q. macrocarpa var. olivaeformis has a range centered in the state of Iowa and is characterized by acorns that are olive shaped and smaller than the acorns of other susceptible varieties. The range of BOB is centered in the state of Iowa, and has been confirmed in southern Minnesota.

When affected by the disease, the oak develops vein necrosis confined to the leaf midvein and major lateral veins, eventually causing leaf death. Symptoms typically start in the lower crown of the tree and eventually spread to the entire tree. If this disease persists for many years, there can be lasting effects. One example is the possible loss of food reserves. This can leave the tree susceptible to greater insect predation, secondary infections from other pathogens, and death. A distinguishing characteristic of T. iowensis is the formation of black crustose asexual fruiting bodies at the base of the petioles that are retained until the following year. These distinctive fruiting bodies are pycnothyria (conidiomata) with radiating setae-like hyphae that form along the necrotic veins.


== Disease cycle ==
In spring, black crustose conidiomata (pychnothyria) that have served as the overwintering mechanism of the disease release conidia. These spores are dispersed most commonly in the presence of moisture such as heavy rain or morning dew. Conidia are also easily wind dispersed. The spores land on healthy leaves, and the process of infection begins. Symptoms begin to appear on the leaves in July and August. As autumn approaches, BOB forms pychnothyria along leaf veins and on the base of the leaf petioles that remain on the tree until spring. The petiole forms an abscission layer, but pustules under the epidermis form, possibly causing leaf retention. This prepares the disease for winter, and the cycle repeats. Secondary infection could occur during abnormally wet periods in the summer given this pathogen's polycyclic potential. A polycyclic pathogen is one that is able to go through several infection cycles in one season.


== Environment ==
According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or NOAA, over the previous two decades the state of Iowa has received more early season rainfall than in years past. This increase in moisture may be what is leading to a more favorable environment for BOB to flourish in. It is unknown if the observed disease is caused by a new pathogen or if the conditions are simply more favorable for the existing pathogen to thrive. Several changes have been documented in the Iowa annual cycles including warmer nighttime temperatures, more humidity, more spring and summer rainfall, and a shift from the normal late season precipitation. In the latter part of April and into May rains help BOB during its most critical period by slashing conidia from the crustose pychnothyria on the upper surface of the leaf. The amount of rainfall during this critical time of year has been higher than the normal averages since 1895. They also report that there have been no droughts in Iowa from 1989–2011. This increase in moisture is thought to be responsible for the buildup of primary inoculum. Repeated defoliations due to high concentrations of BOB conidia will eventually lead to a depletion of the bur oak’s food reserves and ultimately cause death.


== Management ==
When left untreated, BOB will often kill the infected tree. Management is thus an important implication when discussing this disease. Due to the fact that BOB overwinters on leaf petioles that stay on the tree, removing fallen infected leaves will do little in terms of disease control. One proven method of attacking the pathogen is the introduction of a fungicide. Macro injections of the fungicide Alamo™ (Propiconazole (K)) have been shown to be effective on a two-year rotation. Dosage should be carefully monitored, as there are some phytotoxic effects.


== Importance ==
The impact of BOB reaches many aspects of the regions in which it is found. First is the impact on the wildlife that live around the oaks. Bur oaks, along with other oak species, are prolific acorn producers during mast years. Many birds and mammals use the acorns of the oak as a source of nutrition. Declining bur oak populations could also wreak havoc on wildlife populations that are dependent on acorns for food. These organisms would either have to find another food source, move to a new area, or may perish due to a lack of resources.
The loss of these oaks can also cause costly problems in city management. Dead bur oak trees pose a problem for the upkeep of urban areas. At $1000 per tree for removal, costs can add up fast. In the state of Iowa, removal can reach over $700,000 trees a year. This could hurt the economies of the areas affected.


== References ==


== External links ==
Minnesota Pest Bulletin
Forest Service Pest Alert
Iowa State Article

Al-Mujaymer (Arabic: المجيمر) is a village in southern Syria, administratively part of the Suwayda District of the Suwayda Governorate. According to the Syria Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS), Al-Mujaymer had a population of 2,746 in the 2004 census. Its inhabitants are predominantly Druze.


== History ==
In 1596 the village appeared in the Ottoman tax registers named Major,  part of the nahiya (Subdistrict) of Bani Nasiyya in the Hauran Sanjak. It had a population consisting of 6 households and 5 bachelors, all Muslim.  They paid a fixed tax-rate of 25% on agricultural products, including wheat (1200 a.), barley (450 a.), summer crops (200 a.),  goats and beehives (100 a.), in addition to "occasional revenues" (150 a.); a total of 2,000 akçe.


== Religious buildings ==
Maqam al-Mahdi (Druze Shrine)


== See also ==
Druze in Syria


== References ==


== Bibliography ==

Roy Apted (born 25 April 1937) is a former Australian rules footballer who played for St Kilda in the Victorian Football League (VFL).
A Tasmanian representative at the 1958 Melbourne and 1966 Hobart Carnivals, Apted was primarily a defender but was also used as a ruck rover. He appeared in two losing Grand Finals with North Launceston before being recruited to St Kilda. Apted could never establish himself in the St Kilda team over five seasons and returned to Tasmania where he played with Launceston.


== References ==
Roy Apted's playing statistics from AFL Tables
Holmesby, Russell and Main, Jim (2007). The Encyclopedia of AFL Footballers. 7th ed. Melbourne: Bas Publishing.

Piotr Gołąbek also known as Mikołaj Leśniowski (died 1469) – was a Catholic Bishop of Kamianets-Podilskyi, canon of Lviv and a notary at the royal chancellery in the Kingdom of Poland.


== Name ==
Many lists of the Bishops of  Kamianets-Podilskyi mistakenly call Piotr of Gołąbek, Mikołaj Leśniowski because of an error made by Jan Długosz, and, following his lead, assigned the same name, Mikołaj, to the clergyman appointed to the Diocese in Kamieniec Podolski following the death of the previous bishop Mikołaj of Łabuń as Piotr Gołąbek was killed by bandits in 1468 whilst travelling from Szarzyna to Leżajsk, which occurred before he had received his consecration as Bishop.


== Biography ==

Very little is known about Piotr's uprbinging, only that he was a part of a szlachta family that used the Gryf coat of arms
At the time of his royal appointment to the pastoral office in the Diocese of Kamieniec, Piotr Gołąbek was a member of the presbytery of Lviv and belonged to the local metropolitan chapter. He also had close ties with the royal chancellery in the Kingdom of Poland, amongst whose staff he is listed for the years 1465–1467.
In a letter to Rome dated to 15 July 1468 from Koło in Greater Poland, Piotr Gołąbek was presented as a canditate for bishopric of Kamianets-Podilskyi by King Casimir IV Jagiellon to Pope Paul II. In presenting Piotr Gołąbek's candidacy to Kamianets-Podilskyi, King Casimir IV Jagiellon also requested that, as far as possible,the nominee be exempted from curial fees, since, due to frequent Tatar raids, the Diocese of Kamianets-Podilskyi was very impoverished and meeting its financial obligations due to the worsened economic situation in Podolia as the provence had suffered a severe raid by the Trans-Volga Tatars, who in turn attacked Muscovy and Volhynia in 1469.
It isnt known the exact date of Piotr's after due to being killed by bandits in the Podkarpacie region but it is likely to be the second half of 1468 as on 5 June 1469 the Mikołaj of Próchnik had already received the papal commission for the bishopric of Kamieniec.


== See also ==
Bishops of Kamianets-Podilskyi


== References ==

The grey-breasted flycatcher (Lathrotriccus griseipectus) is a species of bird in the family Tyrannidae, the tyrant flycatchers. It is found in Ecuador and Peru.


== Taxonomy and systematics ==
The grey-breasted flycatcher was originally described as Empidonax griseipectus. Many authors retained it in Empidonax through most of the twentieth century. By the very early twenty-first century it was generally agreed to properly belong to Lathrotriccus which had been erected in 1986.
The grey-breasted flycatcher is monotypic. It shares genus Lathrotriccus with Euler's flycatcher  (L. euleri).


== Description ==
The grey-breasted flycatcher is about 13 cm (5.1 in) long and weighs about 11 g (0.39 oz). The sexes have the same plumage. Adults have a gray crown, nape, and cheeks. They have a whitish broken eye-ring and a faint whitish stripe above the lores. Their upperparts are gray with a tinge of brown or olive. Their wings are dusky with whitish ends on the coverts that show as two wing bars. Their secondaries and tertials have whitish edges. Their tail is dusky. Their throat is grayish white, their breast is washed with a darker gray, and their belly is white to whitish with a pale yellow tinge. They have a dark iris, a black maxilla, a pale orange-yellow mandible, and blackish brown legs and feet. 


== Distribution and habitat ==
The grey-breasted flycatcher has a disjunct distribution. It is found intermittently along the western slope of the Andes from central Esmeraldas Province in Ecuador south into northern Peru as far as northern Piura Department. It is also found on the eastern Andean slope in Peru in the valleys of the Chinchipe and Marañón rivers, respectively in eastern Piura and northern Cajamarca Department. The species apparently previously had a larger range. It inhabits the lower levels of humid and deciduous forest and woodland and especially favors viny tangles. In elevation it occurs from sea level to mostly below 800 m (2,600 ft) but reaches 1,700 m (5,600 ft) in Ecuador and 1,200 m (3,900 ft) in Peru.


== Behavior ==


=== Movement ===
The grey-breasted flycatcher is believed to make some seasonal movements to wetter parts of its range during the dry season.


=== Feeding ===
The grey-breasted flycatcher feeds on insects. It typically forages singly or in pairs. It perches upright, somewhat hidden in denser vegetation like vine tangles and shrubbery at the sunny edge of gaps in the forest, and typically up to about 4 m (13 ft) above the ground. It captures prey in mid-air with sallies from the perch ("hawking"). It has been observed attending swarms of army ants but seldom joins mixed-species feeding flocks.


=== Breeding ===
The grey-breasted flycatcher's breeding season includes February but its full season has not been defined. Its nest is an open cup made from dead leaves and bark lined with softer plant fibers and fungal rhizomorphs. Two nests were respectively 1 and 4 m (3 and 13 ft) above the ground; one was in a shallow cavity in a tree and the other in a clump of epiphytes. Both contained two eggs which were pale beige with cinnamon and orange-brown spots. At the one nest observed throughout, the incubation period was 16 days and fledging occurred 14 days after hatch. One adult incubated the clutch and both provisioned the nestlings.


=== Vocalization ===
One description of the grey-breasted flycatcher's song is "a slightly descending series of burry notes, zhwee-zhwe-zhwe-zhwe" and of its call "a simpler Zhwee-buu". Another description of the song is "a repeated, buzzy DZEE-heer...DZEE-dzureet?" and of its call a "phrase of descending raspy notes: DZEER-dzee".


== Status ==
The IUCN originally in 1988 assessed the grey-breasted flycatcher as Threatened, then in 1994 as Vulnerable, and since May 2024 as being of Least Concern. It has a large overall range but is found only locally within it. Its estimated population of between 10,000 and 20,000 mature individuals is believed to be decreasing. "Disturbance and degradation through grazing by goats and cattle pose the most significant threat to the understorey of deciduous forests. Even protected areas are affected by illegal settling, logging and livestock-grazing. Uncontrolled fires started to clear land for agriculture or to improve pastures for grazing are a major threat in parts of the range." It is considered local in Ecuador and rare to uncommon in Peru. It does occur in several protected areas but "[f]urther conservation efforts within protected areas and research aimed at establishing a better understanding of this species' distribution, ecology and movements are recommended".


== References ==


== External links ==
BirdLife Species Factsheet.

The men's triple jump event at the 2023 European Athletics Indoor Championships was held on 2 March at 19:53 (qualification) and 3 March at 20:35 (final) local time.


== Records ==


== Results ==


=== Qualification ===
Qualification: Qualifying performance 16.70 (Q) or at least 8 best performers (q) advance to the Final.


=== Final ===


== References ==

Cyperus reflexus is a species of sedge that is native to parts of the Americas.
The species was first formally described by the botanist Martin Vahl in 1805.


== See also ==
List of Cyperus species


== References ==

Murray's smooth-head (Conocara murrayi), also called Murray's slickhead, is a species of fish in the family Alepocephalidae.


== Description ==
Murray's smooth-head is black in colour. It is described as "moderately elongate, deep bodied, and posteriorly compressed, with a relatively long, acute snout", with scales along its length. Its maximum length is 34 centimetres (13 in). It has a lateral line.


== Habitat ==
Murray's smooth-head lives in the north Atlantic Ocean and Gulf of Mexico;


== References ==

Hannover Messe/Laatzen station is a Category 4 station in the German town of Laatzen near the Hanover fairground (German: Messegelände Hannover). It is normally served only by the Hanover S-Bahn. During major events such as CeBIT and Hanover Messe, all passing regional and long distance trains stop at the station. The station opened in 2000, replacing the old Messe station, which was located on a spur line in the fairgrounds.


== History ==
The station was built for Expo 2000. It replaced Messe station at Laatzen, which was built in 1977 during the construction of the Hanover–Würzburg high-speed line, which had in turn replaced the former suburban railway station of Hannover-Wülfel on the Hanoverian Southern Railway.
The Hannover-Messe station was a terminal station on the fairground site that it served until 1998, having been expanded again in 1988.
The new station was designed following a competition for planning ideas advertised throughout Europe. It was officially open on 22 March 2000. The first of two stages went into operation in the spring of 1998, following the start of construction in 1996. A total of €200 million was invested in the project, which included the installation of 30 new sets of points and 61 additional signals. As part of Expo 2000 133,000 passengers per day were expected to travel to and from the site in 300 long distance and regional trains and 250 S-Bahn trains.
A 60 m-long (200 ft) and 36 m-wide (118 ft) concrete bridge spans across the tracks, which is covered by a roof supported by curved steel trusses. This gives access to the platforms via covered fingers, which serve as roofs to the platform and have several exits to it.

The Messe station has two 420 m-long (1,380 ft) and 9-metre-wide (30 ft) long-distance platforms serving  four running lines and a 210 m-long (690 ft) terminal platform with two tracks for the S-Bahn line, which ends there. Two other non-stop tracks for the Hanover–Würzburg high-speed line run between the tracks serving the long-distance platforms.
During Expo 2000 there was a temporary Terminal B located northeast of the station on the existing tracks; this was used as a terminus for services to and from the north and east. These platforms were dismantled after Expo 2000 finished.


== Normal Operations ==

Hannover-Messe/Laatzen station has been served since December 2008 by the S-Bahn, with services running every hour on line 4. Previously it had been served by an hourly Regionalbahn services on the Hanover–Hildesheim route and a two hourly metronom service on the Uelzen–Hanover–Göttingen route. Since 10 December 2017, LOC 1818 and LOC 1819 of the private operator Locomore has also stopped at this station. Locomore connects the Hanover region with Berlin, Frankfurt and Stuttgart.


== Operations during major trade fairs ==
When major trade fairs like CeBIT and Hannover Messe are open, the station also serves as a long-distance station, giving a direct connection to the fairgrounds (CeBIT 2010 was served daily for up to 72 Intercity-Express and 15 Intercity trains and additional regional trains). S-Bahn line 4 towards Bennemühlen is reinforced so that it runs at 30-minute intervals. Furthermore, S-Bahn line 8 operates as a direct connection via Hannover Hauptbahnhof to Hannover airport.


== Connections ==

The 340-metre-long skywalk bridge connects the station and the fair ground. This is an elevated double tube in which two parallel walkways allow a rapid, two-way and all-weather pedestrian link.
There is a link to the Laatzen/Birkenstraße station on the Hanover Stadtbahn lines 1 and 2, which is located about 200 metres away on Hildesheimer Straße. Next to the station is a stop on bus routes 340 and 341, which only run hourly.


== See also ==
Rail transport in Germany
Railway stations in Germany


== References ==


== External links ==
"Construction phase (with photographs)" (in German). Retrieved 6 August 2011.

Priory Country Park is a country park located in the Newnham area of Bedford, England alongside the River Great Ouse. The park is managed by Bedford Borough Council.
The park was established after gravel extraction ended in 1977. It was officially opened in 1986 by Valerie Singleton. It covers an area of 300 acres (121 hectares), with habitats including lakes, grassland and woodland, and is noted as a birdwatching site. It includes the Priory Marina and Cardington Artificial Slalom Course, and the largest lake is home to a sailing club. There is also a Beefeater Grill and Premier Inn by the park entrance.
Priory Country Park won a Green Flag Award in 2007.
The wall alongside the marina is constructed from stones which were once part of the former Augustinian monastery that occupied part of the site. It also contains Roman bricks from an earlier Roman farmhouse that preceded it.


== See also ==
Bedford Park
Newnham Priory


== References ==


== External links ==

Flora and Fauna of Priory Country Park, Bedford
Priory Country Park (blog)
Priory Sailing Club
Cardington Artificial Slalom Course (CASC)
Priory Marina

The GiMA Best Duo/Group Song is given by Global Indian Music Academy as a part of its annual Global Indian Music Academy Awards. This award started from 2016.


== List of winners ==
2016 Brijesh Shandilya & Swati Sharma for "Banno" – Tanu Weds Manu Returns
Shreya Ghoshal & Vaishali Mhade for "Pinga" – Bajirao Mastani
Arijit Singh & Tulsi Kumar for "Soch Na Sake" – Airlift
Armaan Malik & Neeti Mohan for "Tumhe Apna Banane Ka" – Hate Story 3
Sonu Nigam & Shreya Ghoshal for "Tere Bin" – Wazir
Priya Saraiya & Divya Kumar for "Sun Saathiya" - ABCD 2


== See also ==
Bollywood
Cinema of India


== References ==

The Heraklion Archaeological Museum is a museum located in Heraklion on Crete. It is one of the largest museums in Greece, and the best in the world for Minoan art, as it contains by far the most important and complete collection of artefacts of the Minoan civilization of Crete. It is normally referred to scholarship in English as "AMH" (for "Archaeological Museum of Heraklion"), a form still sometimes used by the museum in itself.

The museum holds the great majority of the finds from the Minoan palace at Knossos and other Minoan sites in Crete.


== History ==

The museum began in 1883 as a simple collection of antiquities; it was about the time when the Minoan civilization was beginning to be rediscovered, and shortly before the first excavations using proper scientific methods. It was also during the period when Crete was a virtually autonomous part of the Ottoman Empire, after the Pact of Halepa of 1878, later followed by the independent Cretan State (1898-1913), protected by a military occupation by the Great Powers. The political situation helped to keep Cretan finds on the island during a crucial period of discoveries.
A dedicated building was constructed from 1904 to 1912 at the instigation of two Cretan archaeologists, Iosif Hatzidakis and Stefanos Xanthoudidis. After three destructive earthquakes in 1926, 1930, and 1935, the museum nearly collapsed. The director of the Heraklion Museum was then Spyridon Marinatos, who made great efforts to find funds and persuade the locals and the central government alike that a new solid building was needed. In 1935, Marinatos succeeded in engaging Patroklos Karantinos to build a sturdy structure that has withstood both natural disasters and the bombing that accompanied the German invasion in 1941. Although the museum was damaged during World War II, the collection survived intact and again became accessible to the public in 1952. A new wing was added in 1964.
The Herakleion Archaeological Museum is one of the largest and most important museums in Greece, and among the most important museums in Europe. It houses representative artifacts from all the periods of Cretan prehistory and history, covering a chronological span of over 5,500 years from the Neolithic period to Roman times. The singularly important Minoan collection contains unique examples of Minoan art, many of them true masterpieces. The Heraklion Museum is rightly considered as the museum of Minoan culture par excellence worldwide.
The museum is located in the town centre. It was built between 1937 and 1940 by architect Patroklos Karantinos on a site previously occupied by the Roman Catholic monastery of Saint-Francis which was destroyed by earthquake in 1856. The museum's antiseismic building is an important example of modernist architecture and was awarded a Bauhaus commendation. Karantinos applied the principles of modern architecture to the specific needs of a museum by providing good lighting from the skylights above and along the top of the walls, and facilitating the easy flow of large groups of people. He also anticipated future extensions to the museum. The colours and construction materials, such as the veined polychrome marbles, recall certain Minoan wall-paintings which imitate marble revetment. The two-storeyed building has large exhibition spaces, laboratories, a drawing room, a library, offices and a special department, the so-called Scientific Collection, where numerous finds are stored and studied. The museum shop, run by the Archaeological Receipts Fund, sells museum copies, books, postcards and slides. There is also a café.
Most of the museum was closed for renovation from 2006 and reopened in May 2013.
Four of the museum's exhibits were toppled over and damaged during a magnitude 6.2 earthquake on 22 May 2025.


== Collections ==


=== Room I ===
Covers findings from 6000 BCE to the pre-Palatial period, including:

Neolithic fertility goddess
Vasiliki ware
Stone jars from the island of Mochlos
Miniature clay sculptures


=== Room II ===
Covers findings from 2000 BCE to 1700 BCE in Knossos, Malia and several peak sanctuaries, including:

Kamares ware pottery
Glazed plaques of Minoan houses (aka the "Town Mosaic")
Peak sanctuary figurines


=== Room III ===

Phaistos Disc
Kamares ware pottery


=== Room IV ===

Covers findings from 1700 BCE to 1450 BCE, including:

Bull's head rhyton from Knossos
Snake goddess figurines
Tools and weapons, mostly cast in bronze
Cups with Linear A inscriptions


=== Room V ===
Covers findings from 1450 BCE to 1400 BCE, including:

Ancient Egyptian trade objects
Clay model of a house
Examples of a Linear A and Linear B scripts


=== Room VI ===
Covers findings from cemeteries at Knossos, Phaistos and Archanes, including:

Clay figurines
Gold jewellery
Horse burial from a tholos tomb at Archanes


=== Room VII ===

Covers findings from 1700 BCE to 1300 BCE from smaller villas and sacred caves, including:

Bronze double axes
The Harvester Vase
Steatite vases from Hagia Triada
Gold jewelry from Malia


=== Room VIII – Zakros ===
Covers findings from 1700 BCE to 1450 BCE from the palace of Zakros, including:

Rock crystal rhyton
Bull's head rhyton
Pottery with floral and marine motifs


=== Room IX ===
Covers findings from 1700 BCE to 1450 BCE in eastern Crete, including:

Terracotta figurines from Pisokephalo peak sanctuary
Seal stones


=== Room X – Mycenaean ===
Covers findings from 1400 BCE to 1100 BCE, including:

Clay figurines
Clay sculpture of dancers with a lyre player


=== Room XI – Dorian ===
Covers findings from 1100 BCE to 900 BCE during the arrival of the Dorian Greeks, including:

Weapons and tools, mostly of iron
Clay fertility figurines
Votive offerings


=== Room XII ===
Covers findings up to 650 BCE, including:

Pottery decorated with griffins
Artefacts and figurines from Kato Syme


=== Room XIII – Larnakes ===
Minoan larnakes (clay coffins) are on display here.


=== Room XIV – Hall of the Frescoes ===

Frescoes from Knossos and Hagia Triada
The Hagia Triada sarcophagus


=== Room XV & Room XVI ===
More frescoes, including the famous "La Parisienne"


=== Room XX – Classical Greek, Greco-Roman ===
Sculptures from Classical Greek and Greco-Roman periods


== Visitor information ==
The museum is open April–September, Monday 12–8pm Tuesday–Sunday 8am–7pm, October–March daily 8am–5pm.
EU students and senior citizens (65+) can receive a discounted entry.
There is air conditioning within the building.
Some of the collection cannot be photographed due to publication or another reason. There are usually signs posted nearby the restricted items.


== Notable artifacts ==
Snake Goddess
Phaistos Disc
Arkalochori Axe
Malia Pendant
Hymn to Dictaean Zeus stele


== Gallery ==


== Frescos ==


=== The Epiphany Cycle ===


== See also ==
List of museums in Greece
Minoan pottery


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
The Rough Guide to Crete. ISBN 1-84353-292-1.


== External links ==

Hellenic Ministry of Culture and Tourism
Hellenic Ministry of Foreign Affairs
City of Herakleion
Heraklion Archaeological Museum - Ebook by Latsis Foundation
http://ancient-greece.org/museum/muse-iraclion.html
http://www.interkriti.org/museums/hermus.htm
http://www.explorecrete.com/archaeology/heraklion-museum.html
https://web.archive.org/web/20060317143414/http://www.dilos.com/location/11159
http://www.heraklion-crete.org/archaeological-museum/
The highlights from the collection
Archeological Museum

Stuart Fielden (born 14 September 1979) is an English former professional rugby league footballer who played in the 1990s, 2000s and 2010s. He was formerly an assistant coach for the Huddersfield Giants in the Super League, and now is a Personal trainer of Fielden Fitness in Leeds. A Great Britain international representative forward, he played his club rugby for Bradford Bulls with whom he won the 2001, 2003 and 2005 Super League Championships, 2000 and 2003 Challenge cups and World Club championships in 2002, 2004, 2006 before he moved to Wigan Warriors for a record transfer fee in 2006, winning the 2010 Super League Championship with them. He then signed with Huddersfield Giants in 2013 but played only a handful of games (9) before injury forced him into retirement. Fielden won 2 individual awards of young player of the year (2000) and International best forward (2005).He was named in 4 super league and 4 International dream teams.


== Early life ==
Fielden was born in Halifax, West Yorkshire, England. He grew up in the village of Old Town near Hebden Bridge.
It was not until he was in his teens that he started playing rugby league with Halifax amateur side Illingworth ARLFC. It was during his time with Illingworth that Bradford signed him.


== Playing career ==


=== Bradford ===
Stuart made his Bradford Bulls début against his hometown club Halifax in May 1998. He played for them at front row forward in the 1999 Super League Grand Final which was lost to St. Helens. Fielden made rapid progress alongside experienced props Joe Vagana, Brian McDermott and Paul Anderson, and was named Super League's young player of the year in 2000.
Fielden played for the Bradford Bulls from the interchange bench and scored a try in their 2001 Super League Grand Final victory against the Wigan Warriors. As Super League VI champions, the Bradford Bulls played against 2001 NRL Premiers, the Newcastle Knights in the 2002 World Club Challenge. Fielden was selected for the interchange bench in Bradford Bulls' victory. He also played for Bradford Bulls at front row forward in their 2002 Super League Grand Final loss against St. Helens. Fielden played for the Bradford Bulls at prop forward in their 2003 Super League Grand Final victory against the Wigan Warriors. Having won Super League VIII, Bradford Bulls played against 2003 NRL Premiers, the Penrith Panthers in the 2004 World Club Challenge. Fielden played as a prop forward in the Bradford Bulls' 22–4 victory. He also played for Bradford Bulls at prop forward in their 2004 Super League Grand Final loss against the Leeds Rhinos. 
in 2005 Fielden narrowly escaped the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami while holidaying in Thailand. He played for the Bradford Bulls at prop forward in their 2005 Super League Grand Final victory against the Leeds Rhinos. As Super League champions Bradford Bulls faced National Rugby League premiers Wests Tigers in the 2006 World Club Challenge. Fielden played at prop and scored two tries in the Bradford Bulls' 30–10 victory.
Fielden won numerous honours and trophies while at Bradford Bulls, with a trademark aggressive style that saw him establish a reputation as one of the best and most feared front-rowers in the world. In February 2006 he won his last trophy with Bradford Bulls, being named Man-of-the-Match and scoring two tries in the World Club Challenge match against Wests Tigers. Many claimed following this match that Stuart was indeed the best prop in the world. He did not miss a game for the club in his last two seasons at Bradford Bulls and was an automatic choice for the Great Britain national rugby league team for the majority of his Bradford Bulls career.
In August 2007 he was named in Bradford Bulls' team of the Century.


=== Wigan Warriors ===
On 22 June 2006 Stuart made a shock switch from Bradford Bulls to join his old coach Brian Noble at Wigan Warriors. Wigan Warriors and Bradford Bulls agreed a transfer fee of £450,000 making it the most expensive cash only transfer of the Super League era. Stuart made his Wigan Warriors début against the Warrington Wolves on 23 June 2006 at the JJB Stadium. He was instrumental in helping his new club to avoid relegation in the remainder of the 2006 season.
In the 2010 season however his form improved with the rest of the team that topped the league for most of the season. His performances were outstanding in a Wigan Warriors team that was again performing well. An iconic moment in the revival of Stuart Fielden happened on Sunday 15 August in a match against the Huddersfield Giants involving a bust up between Fielden and Huddersfield Giants' prop Keith Mason. Mason stamped on Fielden's ankle sparking a brawl which involved 'nearly all 26 players'. Mason seemed to want nothing to do with the incensed Fielden and Darrell Griffin took the fall for it. Subsequently, both men were sin binned. Fielden went on to have a fantastic game, playing like in his iconic aggressive style whilst at Bradford Bulls.
He played in the 2010 Super League Grand Final victory over St. Helens at Old Trafford.
Fielden took part in a boxing match, The Rumble by the Humber, against fellow rugby league player, Lee Radford which raised in excess of £60,000 for former team-mate Steve Prescott. He lost the fight after it was stopped in the second round.
Fielden's 2011 season began with a slow start. He was ruled out of Wigan Warriors' opening fixture against St. Helens following a knee operation, but recovered in time for Wigan Warriors' next match against the Bradford Bulls. He did not feature in the World Club Challenge squad that faced St George Illawarra Dragons, and on 9 March was confirmed as needing another knee operation which would keep him sidelined for four months.
Fielden played his final game for the Wigan Warriors against St. Helens in the final regular season home match of 2012. He was released by the Wigan Warriors at the conclusion of the season.


=== Huddersfield Giants ===
Fielden signed a two-year contract with Huddersfield Giants on 12 October 2012. In July 2013 he declared a change of allegiance from England to play for the Ireland national rugby league team in the end-of-season 2013 World Cup. However the following month the 33-year-old forward was forced to announce his retirement effective immediately due to a knee infection.


=== International ===
Fielden won caps for England while at Bradford Bulls in 2000 against Australia, Russia (sub), Fiji (sub), Ireland and New Zealand, and won caps for Great Britain while at Bradford Bulls in 2001 against Australia, Australia (sub) (2 matches), and France (sub), in 2002 against Australia, and New Zealand (3 matches), in 2003 against Australia (3 matches), in 2004 against Australia (3 matches), and New Zealand (2 matches); in 2005 against Australia (2 matches), New Zealand (2 matches).
Fielden was selected in the Great Britain team to compete in the end of season 2004 Rugby League Tri-Nations tournament. In the final against Australia he played at prop in the Lions' 44–4 loss.
Fielden won caps for Great Britain while at Wigan Warriors in 2006 against New Zealand (3 matches), and Australia (2 matches). He featured in the 2006 Tri-Nations tournament. During this tournament, in a match against Australia, he was involved in an altercation with Australian forward Willie Mason in which Mason punched Fielden, knocking him out.


== References ==


== External links ==
Stuart Fielden Statistics at wigan.rlfans.com
(archived by web.archive.org) Stuart Fielden Wigan Warriors Profile
(archived by web.archive.org) 2001 Ashes profile
(archived by web.archive.org) Team Of The Century

The Movement for Peace with Justice and Dignity (MPJD) (Spanish: Movimiento por la Paz con Justicia y Dignidad) is an ongoing protest movement that began on 28 March 2011 in response to the Mexican drug war, government and corporate corruption, regressive economic policies, and growing economic inequality and poverty. The protests were called by Mexican poet Javier Sicilia in response to the death of his son in Cuernavaca. The protesters have called for an end to the Drug War, the legalization of drugs, and the removal of then-President of Mexico Felipe Calderón. Protests have occurred in over 40 Mexican cities, including an estimated 50,000 in Cuernavaca and 20,000 in Mexico City.
The protests continued in Cuernavaca on 5 May, when over 600 marched against the Drug War.
The movement headed by Sicilia may have had a role in the rejection in 2011 of a reform to the National Security Act that would have granted more attributions related to public security to the Mexican Armed Forces.


== Events ==


=== May 2011 protests ===
Following Javier Sicilia's sons death on 28 March, and open letter "To Mexico's Politicians and Criminals" a silent protest took place in Zócalo, Mexico City on 8 May. The protest began in Cuernavaca, Morelos where more than 200,000 protesters walked 100 km to Mexico City. Some protesters were covered in blood, while others carried pictures of their dead family members. The slogans in these protests include "Estamos hasta la madre!" ("We've had it!") and "No más sangre" ("No more blood").


=== 5 September 2011 ===
On 5 September 2011, President Felipe Calderon gave the fifth state of the nation address since his contested election in 2006. More than 50,000 people attended a demonstration to the Zócalo main square in Mexico City. More than half the square has been occupied since May 2011.


=== The 15 October Movement ===
Demonstrations occurred throughout Mexico as part of the 15 October 2011 global protests. Hundreds of people marched at the Monument to the Revolution at one of the smaller protests of the day. This protest was connected to the world Occupy Movement, which although centres around the world financial imbalance, carries multiple causes. The protest held in Mexico contained signs that read; No blood or STOP the war on drugs.


=== Meeting with Cabinet ===
The organizers of the main protests, also known as the Movement for Peace with Justice and Dignity were able to voice their concerns to the Federal Cabinet in June 2011. In response to the protests anti-military concerns Calderon explained "Violence does not occur in a particular place because the Federal Forces are there. The opposite is true: the Federal Forces are there because that is where there is violence. It is the violence of criminals that kill and abduct rather than the state's response to combat them that has caused this situation."


== Goals ==
The main goals of these protests are to 'pull the army off the streets', decrease the death number specifically of innocent bystanders by ensuring the safety of citizens. The protesters are not in favour of President Calderon's drug-cartel dismantling policies, namely his national security strategy creating 'militarization of the war on drugs', where cities became reminiscent of battle grounds between battling cartel and government militia.


=== Controversies ===
Despite the many deaths of political figures, the protesters brought to light the heavy civilian death toll, carrying pictures of loved ones who have been killed in the country's drug related violence. The numbers are not concrete due to lack of police records and discrepancy but estimates place the number to the tens of thousands. This discrepancy points to police corruption as authorities are being accused of "under-reporting the number of deaths or deliberately changing the details of those killed to make it appear that the victims are criminals rather than civilians".
Additionally, Calderon's National Security Strategy was heavily debated as it sanctions 'warrantless searches, the detention of suspects without charges; the collection of intelligence and counterintelligence "using any method; and electronic surveillance of citizens".


=== National Pact ===
A Nation Pact, signed 14 June was a collaborate effort to set out an outline for the civilians demands. These demands follow the outline of the goals of the protests and include ' giving more visibility to the victims of violence and their families, ending the administration's "militarized approach" to combating crime, punishing corruption and impunity, working to address the social and economic causes of organized crime.'


== International impact ==
The influence and growth of these protests have led to smaller demonstrations held in cities all over the world. Cities with Mexican sub-communities such as Barcelona, Buenos Aires, Madrid, Montreal, The Hague, and Frankfurt have held their own protests in support of crisis in Mexican cities. Protests were also coordinated in Washington, D.C., as U.S. policy supports and supplies Calderon's policies.


== See also ==


== References ==

The Honourable Paul Joseph Ngei (18 October 1923 – 15 August 2004) was a Kenyan politician who was imprisoned for his role in the anti-colonial movement, but who went on to hold several government ministerial positions after Kenya became independent.


== Early life ==
Ngei was born at Kiima Kimwe near Machakos township, Kenya. He was the grandson of paramount chief Masaku after whom the town and the district were named. The family moved from Kiima Kimwe to a new settlement at Kangundo Division in a small village called Mbilini in 1929. This was a mountainous area with good rainfall for agriculture. His father had been converted to Christianity by the Africa Inland Mission.
Ngei attended primary school at DEB Kangundo from 1932, intermediate school at Kwa Mating'i in Machakos town from 1936, and Alliance High School in Kiambu District. He then joined the army in the King's African Rifles (KAR) for a four-year stint. After that he enrolled at Makerere University in Uganda as a journalism student from 1948 to 1950.


== Anti-colonial activism ==
The anti-colonial movement gathered momentum in Kenya in the 1940s. A political upsurge led to the Mau Mau rebellion, which involved several tribes: the Luos, Nandis, Maasai, Kamba, Kikuyus, Merus and Embu.
The declaration of a state of emergency in October 1952 led to the arrest of Ngei, Jomo Kenyatta and others. Ngei earned Kenyatta's undying friendship when, during their imprisonment in Lodwar, Ngei physically stopped a colonial jailer from beating up Kenyatta by seizing the whip and challenging the jailer to beat him (Ngei) first. The "Kapenguria Six" included Fred Kubai, Bildad Kaggia, Achieng Oneko and Kung'u Karumba. The last surviving member, Oneko, died on 9 June 2007. Mashujaa Day, which until recently was known as Kenyatta Day, is a national holiday in Kenya held every year to commemorate the detention of the six on 20 October 1952.
They were released nine years later, in 1961, two years before Kenya gained independence. The following year Ngei established the African People's Party.
Ngei's history generates much interest when examined within the context of these post-World War II protest politics that eventually ushered in independence for Kenya. These were protest politics characterised by party politics and violence as was manifested by the Mau Mau rebellion. Ngei lived and actively participated in both of these facets of Kenya's historical trajectory.
He came from the Akamba people of Kenya, who were the driving force behind a political protest against the British in 1937 led by Samuel Muindi Mbingu.


== Government positions ==
Ngei was the Kangundo Constituency MP from 1969 to 1990. He served throughout the Jomo Kenyatta government from 1964 to 1978 as a cabinet minister and in the post-Kenyatta government led by President Daniel arap Moi from 1978 to 1990 where he held several ministerial positions. In 1990 he was ruled bankrupt by court and consequently had to give up his parliamentary seat.


== Funeral ==
Ngei died in August 2004 at the age of 81 after suffering from diabetes. A mausoleum was built in Mbilini, Kangundo, the constituency he had served for 27 years, by the Kenyan government and unveiled in 2006. On 20 October 2016, the president of the Republic of Kenya unveiled a statue in honour of Paul Ngei at Chumvi town which is in the junction that leads to Machakos from the Mombasa Highway. This was during the celebrations of the year's Heroes' Day which were held in Machakos. The Jubilee Government committed to have national days celebrated outside the capital, Nairobi.


== References ==

"I Love to Laugh", also called "We Love to Laugh", is a song from Walt Disney's 1964 film Mary Poppins which was composed by Richard M. Sherman and Robert B. Sherman.  The song is sung in the film by "Uncle Albert" (Ed Wynn), and "Bert" (Dick Van Dyke) as they levitate uncontrollably toward the ceiling, eventually joined by Mary Poppins (Julie Andrews) herself. The premise of the scene, that laughter and happiness cause Uncle Albert (and like-minded visitors) to float into the air, can be seen as a metaphor for the way laughter can "lighten" a mood. (Compare Peter Pan's flight power, which is also powered by happy thoughts.) Conversely, thinking of something sad literally brings Albert and his visitors "down to earth" again. The song states a case strongly in favor of laughter, even if Mary Poppins appears to disapprove of Uncle Albert's behavior, especially since it not only complicates the task of getting Albert down, but the infectious mood sends Bert and the Banks children into the air as well.
A snippet of the song plays again near the end of the film when Mr. Dawes Sr. (Dick Van Dyke) starts laughing from the "wooden leg named Smith" joke, and starts floating around the boardroom. It is later stated by his son (Arthur Malet) that he died while laughing.
The scene is based on the chapter "Laughing Gas" in the book Mary Poppins by P.L. Travers. In the book, Mary's Uncle Albert, also called Mr. Wigg, is said to float because of an excess of "laughing gas", although it is clear that the term is not used in the chemical sense.
This musical number also appears in the Sing-Along Songs series of Disney videos, though neither this song nor the Uncle Albert are featured in the 2004 stage musical version.
A parody called "We Love To Smoke", sung by Julie Kavner as Patty and Selma Bouvier, was intended to be used in the episode "Simpsoncalifragilisticexpiala(Annoyed Grunt)cious" of The Simpsons, but was cut from the episode. It appears on the album "Go Simpsonic with The Simpsons" as track 49.


== References ==


== Literary sources ==
Sherman, Robert B. (1998). Walt's Time: from before to beyond. Santa Clarita: Camphor Tree Publishers. ISBN 0-9646059-3-7.

The murder of Djamel Ben Ismail took place on 11 August 2021 in the town of Larbaâ Nath Irathen, in the region of Kabylia, Algeria, following his lynching by a mob who falsely accused him of lighting deadly wildfires during the 2021 Algeria wildfires crisis.


== Background ==
Djamel Ben Ismail (Arabic: جمال بن اسماعيل) was a 38-year old Algerian artist and musician. Prior to his murder, Ben Ismail tweeted that he would head to Kabylia, 320 km from his home, to "give a hand to our friends" fighting the ongoing wildfires.


== Murder ==
Upon Ben Ismail's arrival in the town of Larbaâ Nath Irathen, local residents falsely accused him of being an arsonist because he was not from the area. Upon hearing this, he turned himself in at a local police station to explain that he was just a volunteer. A crowd gathered around the police station on the main square of the town, eventually dragging him out and attacking him. Aged 38, he was killed after being burned alive by the mob, with some taking selfies. Three women and a man stabbed him before he was burned, and a man stabbed his corpse after he died.


== Reactions ==
President Abdelmadjid Tebboune strongly condemned the lynching, stating "anyone who tries to undermine national unity will pay dearly," warning of "viruses that want to sow division," blaming "terrorist organizations" such as the Movement for the Self-Determination of Kabylia (MAK).
Mohcine Belabbas, president of the Rally for Culture and Democracy (RCD), condemned the lynching as a crime that "no reason, absolutely no one, can justify," calling it "abhorrent" and a "national trauma." The Socialist Forces Front (FFS) strongly condemned the murder, calling it "barbaric" and "criminal," and stating that it was an "isolated incident."
The Workers' Party (PT) expressed deep concern, calling the murder "extremely serious." PT general secretary Louisa Hanoune considered the assassination of Djamel Ben Ismail to be "an unprecedented wake-up call," a "tragedy which, under equal conditions, could have and can happen in any region of the country."
The head of the National Construction Movement, Abdelkader Bengrina, denounced the "lynching of unprecedented violence," calling the tragedy a "heinous crime" and condemning "barbaric acts committed by fanatics who are trying to discredit and tarnish the image of our brothers from Tizi Ouzou." The party leader warned citizens against "separatist rhetoric, which fuels and exacerbates racist and discriminatory conflicts, and whose sole purpose is to divide the people."
The brutal murder shocked the country after graphic images of it were shared on social media.


== Sentences ==
The high-security trial over the killing involved more than 100 suspects, many of whom were found guilty of a role in the murder. The criminal court of Dar El Beida sentenced 49 people to death for the homicide and mutilation of Ben Ismail. 28 others involved in the murder faced sentences ranging from two to ten years in prison, along with fines ranging from 100,000 to 200,000 Algerian dinar. Five people were convicted in absentia both for involvement in the killing and for belonging to the Movement for the Self-Determination of Kabylia (MAK) which is classified as a terrorist organization by Algeria, among them was the leader of the organization Ferhat Mehenni. On 26 August 2021, Algeria sentenced Ferhat Mehenni to life imprisonment and issued an international arrest warrant for him. In October 2023, on appeal, 38 of the death sentences were upheld, commuted to life imprisonment, 27 people were acquitted, while others received sentences from three to twenty years in prison.


== References ==

HSwMS Ejdern (B01) was the lead ship of her class of four Swedish sonobuoy boats.


== Citations ==


== Bibliography ==
Saunders, Stephen, ed. (2004). Jane's Fighting Ships 2004–2005. Coulsdon, UK: Jane's Information Group. ISBN 0-7106-2623-1.

Giovanni Mei (born 15 October 1953) is an Italian former football player and who now works as the technical director of Italian club Fano.


== Playing career ==
Mei played as a central defender, often used as a full-back, spending his youth career with Fano, for which he made his debut in the first team in Serie D at 18 years old. He signed for Bologna, where he made his Serie A debut. However he struggles to find space, then he played first in Brindsi and then in Modena.
In 1976 he moved to Atalanta, with which he obtained the promotion in Serie A at the first attempt (1976–77 season) and contested four championships, two in Serie A and two in Serie B. Identical curriculum he obtained with Cesena, to which he was sold in the summer 1980. In 1984 he finally moved to the newly promoted Cremonese in Serie A, with which he obtained the last four appearances in the top flight.
During his career he scored 1 goal and total of 109 appearances in Serie A and 197 appearances and in Serie B.


== Managerial career ==
Mei began his coaching career at Vis Pesaro in 1990 and later Suzzara in 1991. Category rooms where in the seasons 1992–93 and 1993–94 he trained Barletta. In 1995–96 he directed the Baracca Lugo. In 1996–97 he took over from Angelo Busetta on the Catania bench, from which he was removed during the 1997–98 season.
In 2000–01 he was on the bench of the Sambenedettese promoted in Serie C2. The following year he was soon replaced by Paolo Beruatto. In 2003 he accepted the offer of Iranian club Saipa which played in Persian Gulf Pro League. In 2006–07 he returned to Bologna as an observer. He later became assistant coach of Bologna and Parma joining Franco Colomba's technical staff.
On 17 December 2012, he became the assistant coach of Padova alongside Franco Colomba. On 20 March 2013, following Franco Colomba's release from office, he was released from office. On 22 July 2014, he became assistant coach of the Indian Super League club Pune City. After the season club cannot make playoffs and Colomba left the club with his coaching staff.
After long time absence in football management he return to his former club Fano as a technical direction in July 2019.


== References ==


== External links ==
it:Giovanni Mei#

Lieutenant Charles Crichton Robson  (1895 – 3 January 1958) was a Scottish World War I observer ace credited with eight aerial victories.


== Military service ==
Robson was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, the son of Charles and Maggie Robson. He enlisted into the 9th Battalion, The Royal Scots (Lothian Regiment), as a private, and served in France from 24 February 1915. On 6 August 1915 Robson was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the 14th (Reserve) Battalion, Royal Scots, but on 4 September transferred from the Reserves to a service battalion, the 12th Royal Scots.
On 1 July 1917, Robson was promoted to lieutenant, and on 19 December was transferred to Royal Flying Corps and appointed a flying officer (observer), with seniority from 21 November.
Robson was posted to No. 11 Squadron, and teamed with pilot Lieutenant Herbert Sellars, flying a Bristol F.2b two-seater fighter. He gained his first aerial victory on 12 March 1918, shooting down in flames a LVG C.VI, and over the following six days drove down out of control three Albatros D.Vs. On 21 March he accounted for two more Albatros aircraft, the second being that of Leutnant Ludwig Hanstein, the Staffelführer of Jagdstaffel 35, who was killed. On 2 April 1918, the day after the Royal Flying Corps and the Royal Naval Air Service were merged to form the Royal Air Force, Robson drove down a Fokker Dr.I. His eighth and final victory came on 15 May, sharing in the driving down another Dr.I. However, shortly afterwards his aircraft was shot down by Vizefeldwebel Josef Mai of Jagdstaffel 5. Sellars was killed in the crash. Robson survived, but was taken prisoner.
Robson's award of the Military Cross was gazetted on 21 June 1918. His citation read:

Temporary Lieutenant Charles Crichton Robson, Royal Flying Corps.
"For conspicuous gallantry and devotion to duty. He completed a long-distance reconnaissance under very trying weather conditions, and succeeded in returning with the most valuable information. He has shown himself to be very cool and resourceful under all circumstances."


== Later life ==
Robson attended the University of Edinburgh Medical School. He died in 1958 in Edinburgh.


== References ==

Tanzania competed at the 2022 World Athletics Championships in Eugene, United States, from 15 to 24 July 2022. 


== Results ==
Tanzania entered 2 athletes.


=== Men ===
Track and road events


== References ==


== External links ==
Oregon22｜WCH 22｜World Athletics

Major Theodor Nordmann (18 December 1918 in Dorsten – 19 January 1945 near Insterburg) was a World War II Luftwaffe Stuka ace. He was also a recipient of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves and Swords. The Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross, and its variants were the highest awards in the military and paramilitary forces of Nazi Germany during World War II.


== Career ==
Nordmann joined the Luftwaffe in 1937, and served as a reconnaissance pilot until March 1940, when he transferred to 1./StG 186, flying the Junkers Ju 87 'Stuka'. The unit was originally intended to serve on the aircraft carrier Graf Zeppelin, but in July 1940 was renamed III./Sturzkampfgeschwader 1 (StG 1—1st Dive Bomber Wing) and flew conventional bombing missions during the battle of France and Battle of Britain. Nordmann was awarded the Iron cross 1st and 2nd class during 1940.
In 1941 Nordmann's unit was relocated to the Mediterranean for actions against Malta, where he claimed a 5,000 ton merchantman sunk.
StG 1 took part in the invasion of Russia in June 1941 and in September 1941, after 200 operations and 20 tanks destroyed, he was awarded the Knight's Cross.
During the fighting over Orel in the summer of 1942, Nordmann, as Staffelkapitän (squadron leader) of 8./StG 1, made his 600th operational mission, the first Stuka pilot to achieve this total.
His radio operator and gunner, Feldwebel Gerhard Rothe, was one of only 15 Stuka gunners to be honored with the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross.
In January 1945 Nordmann was killed when his Focke-Wulf Fw 190 F-8 (Werknummer 588202—factory number) collided with his wing man, Oberfeldwebel Sroka (Fw 190 F-8 Werknummer 933242) in bad weather north of Insterburg. Nordmann was Gruppenkommandeur of II./Schlachtgeschwader 3 (SG 3—3rd Assault Wing) from October 1943 until his death in January 1945. He claimed some 80 Soviet tanks destroyed and 43,000 gross register tons (GRT) of merchant shipping sunk. He flew almost 1300 combat missions, including roughly 200 with the Fw 190.


== Awards ==
German Cross in Gold on 20 October 1942 as Oberleutnant in the III./Sturzkampfgeschwader 1
Iron Cross (1939) 2nd Class (24 May 1940) & 1st Class (29 August 1940)
Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves and Swords
Knight's Cross on 17 September 1941 Leutnant and pilot in the 8./Sturzkampfgeschwader 1
214th Oak Leaves on 17 March 1943 as Oberleutnant and acting commander of the III./Sturzkampfgeschwader 1
98th Swords on 17 September 1944 as Major and Gruppenkommandeur of II./Schlachtgeschwader 3


== Notes ==


== References ==


=== Citations ===


=== Bibliography ===

Gunnar Aagaard Andersen (14 July 1919 – 29 June 1982) was a Danish sculptor, painter, designer and architect whose work belongs to the Concrete art movement.


== Early life and education ==
Born in Ordrup to the north of Copenhagen, Aagaard Andersen attended the Arts and Crafts School (Kunsthåndværkersole) from 1936 to 1939. Between 1940 and 1946, he studied at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts under Aksel Jørgensen and Gunnar Biilmann Petersen. He also spent a short period studying etching at the Royal Swedish Academy of Arts. From 1946 to 1950, he studied in Paris under the sculptor Ossip Zadkine, after which he travelled to Italy (1951) and England (1952–53).


== Career ==

Aagaard Andersen first exhibited at the Kunstnernes Efterårsudstilling (Artists Autumn Exhibition) in 1937. Initially he created mainly drawings and sketches but he also painted. In the 1940s, he illustrated a number of books in a Realist style but while he was in Paris, he was inspired to paint Concrete art works. He was one of the founders of the Linien II artists association (1948–52), ensuring a working relationship between new trends in French art and developments in Denmark. In France, he joined the newly formed concrete art association Groupe Espace which brought together architects, sculptors, engineers and painters who collaborated on creating works in the open air. Aagaard Andersen was one of 45 participants in the large outdoor exhibition they presented in Biot, Alpes-Maritimes in 1954.
In the 1950s, he created architectural designs integrated with decorative works for the textile firm Mads Eg Damgaard in Herning, giving him an opportunity to demonstrate his understanding of integrated art. During the same period, he produced carpets and textiles in collaboration with Unika Vaev. He was also active as a designer, producing a polyester chair in 1964 which is now exhibited in New York's Museum of Modern Art, MoMA. His most comprehensive achievement in decoration was for the Odense Concert Hall in 1983.
From 1972 to 1982, Aagaard Andersen was a professor at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts.
He died in Munkerup on 29 June 1982.
Aagaar Andersen has exhibited widely both in Denmark and abroad. There was a large exhibition of his work in 2013 at Den Frie Udstilling in Copenhagen.


== Awards ==
In 1977, Aagaard Andersen was awarded the Eckersberg Medal and, in 1980, the Thorvaldsen Medal.


== Exhibitions ==
Aagaard Andersen i brug, Den Frie Udstilling, Copenhagen (17 August –16 October 2013)


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Lovring, Rigmor. "Aagaard Andersen, Gunnar." In Grove Art Online. Oxford Art Online, (accessed February 5, 2012; subscription required).
Panton chair,
Information about the designer Gunnar Aagaard Andersen (in English),


== External links ==
Illustrated commentry on Aagaard Andersen's work from Jens Tang Kristensen at Kunstkritikk
Work by Gunnar Aagaard Andersen in the collection of the Museum of Modern Art, New York
Information and pictures about the designer Gunnar Aagaard Andersen at the design agency TAGWERC (in English)
Works (with photos) in the SMK Open online collection from the Statens Museum for Kunst (National Gallery of Denmark)

Giubicolanta is a monotypic moth genus of the family Noctuidae. Its only species, Giubicolanta orientalis, is found in Somalia and Somaliland. Both the genus and species were first described by Emilio Berio in 1937.


== References ==

Coisevaux (French pronunciation: [kwazvo]) is a commune in the Haute-Saône department in the region of Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in eastern France.


== See also ==
Communes of the Haute-Saône department


== References ==

All TV (Korean: 얼 TV(티비); RR: Eol Tibi) is a Canadian exempt Category B Korean language specialty channel. It was launched in September 2001 and is owned by Jang Sung Lee.
All TV features are a mix of local and foreign programming from Korea.  The foreign programming that airs on All TV comes from MBC.  Local programming is produced in All TV's state-of-the-art broadcast centre, which includes three studios, 10 video editing suites and sound recording facilities. It is also located in the Korean Cultural Centre in Toronto. The programs produced include a daily newscast, talk shows, cooking shows and a real estate program.
On January 18, 2019, the CRTC approved All TV Inc.'s request to convert All TV from a licensed Category B specialty service to an exempted Cat. B third language service.


== ALL TV K ==

In July 2009, All TV launched KBS World on Rogers Cable.  Seabridge Media operated a similar service until early 2009, when the company shut down.  At that point, All TV stepped in and launched its KBS World channel, allowing the service to remain on the air in Canada.  In 2013, the channel was renamed All TV K.


== Content agreement with SBS ==
In December 2010, All TV announced it had signed a content agreement with Korean broadcaster SBS.  Programming from SBS began airing on All TV on December 13, 2010.
As of 2018, All TV no longer airs any programming from SBS.


== All TV HD ==
On July 18, 2013, All TV launched All TV HD, a high-definition simulcast of the standard-definition feed.  It is currently available on Bell Fibe TV.


== See also ==
All TV K


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website (in Korean)
MBC America

Goals in the Air is a 1972 children's novel by prolific British author Michael Hardcastle.


== Plot summary ==
The book tells the story of Kenny Rider a young striker who plays for fictitious Second Division team Marton Rangers. Kenny manages to break into the first team at the age of sixteen and attracts a lot of attention and some jealousy for his talent and goalscoring ability. Unfortunately, off the field Kenny has to contend with a range of problems including an apathetic girlfriend and an actively hostile father. Whilst many of Hardcastle's other books see their protagonists triumph over adversity, the end of this short novel sees Kenny continuing to struggle with the many pressures of top class football.


== References ==

22 m2 is the debut studio album by Finnish rapper Sini Sabotage. Released on 5 December 2013 via PME Records, the album peaked at number 27 on the Finnish Albums Chart.


== Singles ==
Two singles preceded the album. "Levikset repee", released on 19 April 2013, peaked at number one on the Finnish Singles Chart. The second single "Miks" was released on 1 November 2013 and reached number 14.


== Track listing ==


== Charts ==


== Release history ==


== References ==

Robert Hooper is an American politician from Vermont. He is a U.S. Army veteran and served from 2019 to 2026 as a Democratic member of the Vermont House of Representatives. He resigned in March 2026 after being found to have violated the chamber's sexual harassment rules.


== Early life and education ==
Hooper joined the Army in 1971 and served in the signal corps as a radio operator.


== Electoral history ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Jiří Jarošík  (born 27 October 1977) is a Czech professional football manager and former player who is the manager of Kazakhstani club Shakhter Karagandy. In his playing career, he played as a defender and midfielder.
Jarošík started his club career in his native Czech Republic, winning six league titles in seven years with Sparta Prague. He then played for CSKA Moscow, winning a Russian Premier League title in 2003. In January 2005 he transferred to Chelsea, where he won a Premier League title and was loaned to Birmingham City in the same league. He also won the Scottish Premier League with Celtic in 2006–07, while in his later career he returned to Russia with Krylia Sovetov, had a second spell at Sparta, and played in Spain for Real Zaragoza and Deportivo Alavés.
Jarošík played for the Czech national team, making 23 appearances without scoring between 2000 and 2005. Since 2020 he has worked as a manager, in the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Russia.


== Club career ==


=== Early career ===
Born in Ústí nad Labem, then Czechoslovakia, Jarošík began his career with Sparta Prague in his native Czech Republic. He had a two-year loan spell at Slovan Liberec before establishing himself in the first team at Sparta, with whom he won six league titles between 1997 and 2003. Jarošík's appearances caught the eye of CSKA Moscow, who paid a then Russian record of about $3.5 million to acquire him in 2003.
On 10 August 2004, Jarošík scored the winning goal in a 2–1 home victory over Rangers in the UEFA Champions League third qualifying round first leg (3–2 aggregate).


=== Chelsea ===
On 6 January 2005, Jarošík was purchased by Premier League club Chelsea for an undisclosed fee, thought to be about £3 million. He made his debut two days later in a 3–1 home win over League Two team Scunthorpe United in the third round of the FA Cup, as a 68th-minute substitute for Didier Drogba. On 27 February, he started the League Cup final, which Chelsea won 3–2 against Liverpool; he was replaced at half time by Eiður Guðjohnsen. Chelsea won the 2004–05 Premier League title and Jarošík made enough league appearances (14) to earn a championship medal.
Jarošík was involved in a controversy in February 2005 when he came on as a substitute with a 15-line handwritten note from manager José Mourinho, for midfielder Tiago Mendes, in a game at Everton that Chelsea ended up winning 1–0. Refereeing chief Keith Hackett stated that there was nothing to prevent the tactic in the Laws of the Game.


=== Birmingham City ===
On 22 August 2005, Jarošík was loaned to fellow Premier League team Birmingham City for the rest of the season. He had started only three league games for Chelsea (his only full match was the game in which they won the Premier League, away at Bolton Wanderers) and his chances of making Mourinho's starting lineup had further diminished since the signing of Michael Essien. Manager Steve Bruce praised Jarošík as a powerful and versatile player with good aerial ability. He made his debut the following day in a 3–0 home loss to Middlesbrough, and on 27 August he scored in a 3–2 win at West Midlands rivals West Bromwich Albion.
On 4 April 2006, Jarošík scored the only goal against Bolton at St Andrew's; his long-range strike past Jussi Jääskeläinen took Birmingham out of the relegation zone for the first time since October. He returned to Chelsea at the end of his loan, after Birmingham were relegated.


=== Celtic ===
On 19 June 2006, Jarošík left Chelsea and signed a three-year deal with Scottish Premier League champions Celtic for an undisclosed fee, rumoured to be around the £2 million mark. He scored on his Celtic debut in a 4–1 victory over Kilmarnock at Celtic Park on 29 July. Competition from other midfielders such as Evander Sno, Aiden McGeady and Paul Hartley meant that first team opportunities were limited for Jarošík, but he still made several notable contributions to Celtic's success, including winning both the free kicks from which Shunsuke Nakamura scored in the two Champions League group stage matches against Manchester United – the second put Celtic into the last 16. On 6 December 2006, Jarošík also scored Celtic's goal in a 3–1 Champions League group stage loss at Copenhagen. On 14 January 2007, he scored the winner in a 2–1 win over Hearts with a long-range strike. Celtic won the 2006–07 league title in Jarošík's first season with the club, meaning that he had won league medals in a joint-record four countries – the Czech Republic, Russia, England and Scotland.
Despite the signings of Massimo Donati and Scott Brown for the 2007–08 season, which made midfield competition even tighter than before, Jarošík remained with Celtic. On 3 October, Jarošík made his first Celtic start in over six months in the 2–1 Champions League group stage victory over A.C. Milan at Celtic Park. On 28 November, Jarošík scored Celtic's equaliser in another Champions League group stage match – this time against Shakhtar Donetsk – with a left-footed volley. The match ended 2–1 to Celtic.
In July 2023, Jarošík said he hated Scottish football and claimed that it was "30 years behind" the English game.


=== Krylia Sovetov ===
On 31 January 2008, Jarošík signed for Russian club Krylia Sovetov for a reported fee of €1 million.


=== Real Zaragoza ===
At the end of his Krylia Sovetov contract in December 2009, Jarošík returned to Sparta Prague to train, before being informed by a Serbian agent of interest from La Liga club Real Zaragoza. He had previously not heard of the team or the city of Zaragoza, but was convinced of their merits by compatriot Jiří Rosický, Tomáš Rosický's brother who had played for Atlético Madrid B.
On 13 January 2010, Jarošík signed for Zaragoza on a free transfer, on an 18-month deal. On his debut four days later, the team drew 0–0 at home to bottom team Xerez. His first goal was a 7th-minute header from Gabi's corner kick in a 1–1 draw with Atlético Madrid also at La Romareda.
Jarošík was sent off on 2 October 2010 in a 2–2 home draw with Sporting de Gijón, for fouling David Barral for a penalty that Diego Castro scored. The following May, as his contract was to expire, the Aragonese club offered him one more year. He said in 2016 that he turned down the offer as the club did not settle a debt with him.


=== Sparta Prague ===
On 13 August 2011, Jarošík re-signed with his former club Sparta Prague as a free agent.


=== Deportivo Alavés ===
On 26 August 2013, Jarošík signed as a free agent for Deportivo Alavés, newly promoted to Spain's Segunda División.


== International career ==
Jarošík played 23 times for the Czech Republic national team from 2000 to 2005, although he did not score and was not included in the squad for Euro 2004. His debut on 16 August 2000 was as a half-time substitute for captain Radek Bejbl in a 1–0 friendly loss to Slovenia in Ostrava.


== Coaching career ==
On 15 July 2020, 42-year-old Jarošík was hired for his first job as a head coach, at his hometown club Ústi nad Labem. He signed a one-year deal with the option of an extension and said that his late father would have been pleased with the appointment. On 25 December, with his team third in the second division, he moved to Celje, the defending champions of the Slovenian PrvaLiga who were in 7th place. Having won once and draw twice in eleven games, he was dismissed on 26 April 2021.
After starting the season in the second division with Prostějov, Jarošík moved in September 2021 to Teplice in the Czech top flight. He and his staff were dismissed on 4 March 2023, after a run of five losses in six games.
On 22 June 2023, Jarošík was hired by Russian Premier League club Orenburg. After only two months, five league matches, with one point and with last place in the league table, Jarošík left Orenburg due to family reasons.
On 5 November 2024, Jarošík was appointed as manager by Kazakhstan Premier League club Shakhter Karagandy.


== Personal life ==
Jarošík married Zlata Shvets in early 2014. His wife is from Russia.


== Managerial statistics ==
As of 22 August 2023


== Honours ==
Sparta Prague

Czech First League: 1996–97, 1997–98, 1998–99, 1999–2000, 2000–01, 2002–03
CSKA Moscow

Russian Premier League: 2003
Russian Super Cup: 2004
Chelsea

Premier League: 2004–05
Football League Cup: 2004–05
Celtic

Scottish Premier League: 2006–07
Scottish Cup: 2006–07


== References ==


== External links ==

Jiří Jarošík at FAČR (archived former page) (in Czech)
Jiří Jarošík at Soccerbase 
Jarošík's page at Celtic's official site
Jarošík's page at ESPN's Soccernet Archived 16 July 2012 at the Wayback Machine

John Heritage Bryan (November 4, 1798 – May 19, 1870) was a U.S. Representative from North Carolina.
Born in New Bern, North Carolina, Bryan studied under private teachers and attended New Bern Academy.
He graduated from the University of North Carolina in 1815, where he was a member of the Philanthropic Society.
He studied law.
He was admitted to the bar in 1819 and commenced practice in New Bern, North Carolina. 
He served as member of the North Carolina State Senate in 1823 and 1824.
Trustee of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 1823–1868.
Bryan was elected as Jacksonian to the Nineteenth Congress and as an Adams candidate in the Twentieth Congress (March 4, 1825 – March 3, 1829).
He was not a candidate for renomination in 1828.
He resumed the practice of law in New Bern.
He moved to Raleigh in 1839 and continued the practice of law.
He died in Raleigh, North Carolina, May 19, 1870.
He was interred in Oakwood Cemetery.
The Bryan House and Office at New Bern was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1972.


== Sources ==

United States Congress. "John Heritage Bryan (id: B000988)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress.


== External links ==
A collection of the papers of John Heritage Bryan is available at the J.Y. Joyner Library, East Carolina University.
 This article incorporates public domain material from Biographical Directory of the United States Congress. Federal government of the United States.

Wadagahara Station (和田河原駅, Wadagahara-eki)  is a passenger railway station  located in the city of Minamiashigara, Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan, operated by the Izuhakone Railway.


== Lines ==
Wadagahara Station is served by the  Daiyūzan Line, and is located 8.2 kilometers from the line’s terminus at Odawara Station.


== Station layout ==
The station consists of a single island platform connected to a concrete four-story station building. The upper three stories of the station building are apartments. The station has a staffed service window.


=== Platforms ===


== Adjacent stations ==


== History ==
Wadagahara Station was officially opened on October 15, 1925. The new station building was completed in March 1992.


== Passenger statistics ==
In fiscal 2019, the station was used by an average of 1,552 passengers daily (boarding passengers only).
The passenger figures (boarding passengers only) for previous years are as shown below.


== Bus services ==
Hakone Tozan Bus
for Odakyu Kaisei Station
for Sekimoto (Daiyuzan Station)


== Surrounding area ==
The station has a square with a bus terminal. Public facilities are close to the Wadagahara Station Square Post Office and the Minamiashigara City Sports Center. Many factories of Fujifilm and related companies are located to the southwest and northeast of the station, which is closer to the main gate than the adjacent Fujifilm-mae station.


== See also ==
List of railway stations in Japan


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Wadagahara Station at Wikimedia Commons

Izuhakone Railway home page Archived 2015-05-24 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese)

Shadows in Paradise is a 2010 American action film directed and written by J. Stephen Maunder, starring Mark Dacascos, Armand Assante, Tom Sizemore, and Sofya Skya.


== Plot ==
During a rescue operation in Iraq, Special Forces member Max Forrester (Mark Dacascos) is devastated when Sasha (Sofya Skya), his squad mate and fiancée, goes missing. Two years later, Max, now out of the military, receives a call from his ex-commander, Captain Dyer (Bruce Boxleitner), informing him that Sasha has been seen alive and moving freely about on a place called Paradise Island. He also informs Max the military is preparing to go in and extract her with possible charges of desertion or worse. Max sets off on his own to Paradise Island to find Sasha and learn the truth before Shadow Company gets to her first. Max eventually finds Sasha and learns she is working undercover as part of Al-Qaeda and is about to expose a weapons deal that will have a heavy impact on their organization. The story culminates in a battle wherein it is revealed that Shadow Company, led by their leader Ghost (Armand Assante), are in fact the weapons dealers who were using Sasha as an alibi to come to the island. Max and Sasha foil the weapons deal and recover the weapons in a spectacular showdown.


== Cast ==
Mark Dacascos as Lieutenant Max Forrester
Sofya Skya as Lieutenant Sasha Villanoff
Armand Assante as Captain John "Ghost" Santos
Tom Sizemore as Colonel Bunker
Bruce Boxleitner as Captain Dyer
Danny Trejo as "Matador"
Steven Bauer as Agent Stubbs
Igor Jijikine as "Spider"
Andrew Divoff as Rykov
Angie Hill as Agent Sung
Levani Outchaneichvili as Ahmed
Christine Scott Bennett as Christine
Vernon Wells: General Ruth


== Production ==
Shadows in Paradise was written and directed by J. Stephen Maunder.  
The film was produced by Erken Ialgashev and Curtis Petersen for
Aberto Entertainment. The musical score was composed by Misha Segal,
with cinematography by Curtis Petersen and editing by Marc Cahill.
The film has a running time of approximately 87 minutes and was produced in the
United States in the English language.


== Release ==
Shadows in Paradise was released in 2010, with a direct-to-video release in
the United States on 9 February 2010.


== References ==


== External links ==
Shadows in Paradise at IMDb
Shadows in Paradise at Rotten Tomatoes

The women's freestyle 56 kilograms is a competition featured at the 1997 World Wrestling Championships, and was at the Clermont-Ferrand Sports Hall held in Clermont-Ferrand, France from 10 to 12 July 1997.


== Results ==


=== Round 1 ===


=== Round 2 ===


=== Round 3 ===


=== Round 4 ===


=== Round 5 ===


=== Finals ===


== References ==


== External links ==
UWW Database

The cancer Biomedical Informatics Grid (caBIG) was a US government program to develop an open-source, open access information network called caGrid for secure data exchange on cancer research. The initiative was developed by the National Cancer Institute (part of the National Institutes of Health) and was maintained by the Center for Biomedical Informatics and Information Technology (CBIIT) and program managed by Booz Allen Hamilton. In 2011 a report on caBIG raised significant questions about effectiveness and oversight, and its budget and scope were significantly trimmed. In May 2012, the National Cancer Informatics Program (NCIP) was created as caBIG's successor program.


== History ==
The National Cancer Institute (NCI) of the United States funded the cancer Biomedical Informatics Grid (caBIG) initiative in spring 2004, headed by Kenneth Buetow.
Its goal was to connect US biomedical cancer researchers using technology known as grid computing. The program, led by the Center for Bioinformatics and Information Technology (CBIIT), began with a 3-year pilot phase. The pilot phase concluded in March 2007, and a trial was announced.
Buetow promoted the program in 2008.
In addition to caGrid, the underlying infrastructure for data sharing among organizations, caBIG developed software tools, data sharing policies, and common standards and vocabularies to facilitate data sharing.
Software tools targeted:

Collection, analysis, and management of basic research data
Clinical trials management, from patient enrollment to adverse event reporting and analysis
Collection, annotation, sharing, and storage of medical imaging data
Biospecimen management
caBIG sought to provide foundational technology for an approach to biomedicine it called a “learning healthcare system.” This relies on the rapid exchange of information among all sectors of research and care, so that researchers and clinicians are able to collaboratively review and accurately incorporate the latest findings into their work. The ultimate goal was to speed the biomedical research process. It was also promoted for what is often called Personalized Medicine.
caBIG technology was used in adaptive clinical trials such as the Investigation of Serial studies to Predict Your Therapeutic Response with Imaging and molecular AnaLysis 2 (I-SPY2), which was designed to use  biomarkers to determine the appropriate therapy for women with advanced breast cancer.


== Health information technology ==
Health information technology (HIT) was promoted for management and secure exchange of medical information among researchers, health care providers, and consumers. HIT initiatives mentioning caBIG were:
NCI and the American Society of Clinical Oncology initiated a collaboration to create an oncology-specific electronic health record system using caBIG standards for interoperability and that will enable oncologists to manage patient information in an electronic format that accurately captures the specific interventional issues unique to oncology.
The Nationwide Health Information Network was an initiative to share patient clinical data across geographically disparate sources and create electronically linked national health information exchange. It might be somehow related.


== Collaborations ==
A BIG Health Consortium was formed in 2008 to promote personalized medicine, but disbanded in 2012. 
In July 2009, caBIG announced a collaboration with the Dr. Susan Love Research Foundation to build an online cohort of women willing to participate in clinical trials. Called the Army of Women, it had a goal of one million in its database; by December 2009 the site was "launched", and about 30,000 women and men signed up by 2010.
The Cancer Genome Atlas aimed to characterize more than 10,000 tumors across at least 20 cancers by 2015. caBIG provided connectivity, data standards, and tools to collect, organize, share, and analyze the diverse research data in its database.
Since 2007, NCI worked with UK National Cancer Research Institute (NCRI). The two organizations shared technologies for collaborative research and the secure exchange of research data using caGrid and the NCRI Oncology Information Exchange (ONIX) web portal announced in August 2009.
ONIX shut down in March 2012.
The Duke Cancer Institute used caBIG clinical trials tools in their collaboration with the Beijing Cancer Hospital of Peking University.


== Implementation ==
The project intended to connect  65 NCI-designated cancer centers to enable collaborative research.
Participating institutions could either “adopt” caBIG tools to share data directly through caGrid, or “adapt” commercial or in-house developed software to be caBIG-compatible. The caBIG program developed software development kits  (SDKs) for interoperable software tools, and instructions on the process of adapting existing tools or developing applications to be caBIG-compatible.
The Enterprise Support Network program included domain-specific expertise, and support service providers, third party organizations that provide assistance on a contract-for-services basis.
A web portal using the Liferay software was available from 2008 to 2013.


=== Open source ===
Since 2004, the caBIG program used open-source communities, adapted from other public-private partnerships.  The caBIG program produced software under contract to software development teams largely within the commercial research community.
In general, software developed under US government contracts is the property of the US government and the US taxpayers. Depending on the terms in specific contracts, they might be accessible only by request under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).  The timeliness of response to such requests might preclude a requester from ever gaining any secondary value from software released under a FOIA request. 
The caBIG program placed the all caBIG software in a software repository freely accessible for download.  Open source means anyone can modify the downloaded software; however, the licensing applied to the downloaded software allows greater flexibility than is typical.  An individual or enterprise is allowed to contribute the modified code back to the caBIG program but is not required to do so.  Likewise, the modifications can be made available as open source but are not required to be made available as open source.  The caBIG licensing even allows the use of the caBIG applications and components, combined with additions and modifications, to be released as commercial products.  These aspects of the caBIG program actually encourage commercialization of caBIG technology.


=== Results ===
In 2008, GlaxoSmithKline announced it would share cancer cell genomic data with caBIG.
Some private companies claimed benefits from caBIG technology in 2010.
A caGrid community web site was created in 2007.
The 1.x version of the core software was added to a GitHub project in mid-2013, under the BSD 3-Clause license.
It used version 4.03 of the Globus Toolkit, and the Taverna workbench system to manage workflow and the Business Process Execution Language.
Software called Introduce was developed around 2006.
Contributors included the Ohio State University Center for Clinical and Translational Science, Duke University, University of Chicago - Argonne National Laboratory, and private companies Booz Allen Hamilton, Ekagra Software Technologies and Semantic Bits.


=== Criticism ===
By 2008, some questioned if the program was benefiting large pharmaceutical companies.
By 2011, the project had spent an estimated $350 million. Although the goal was considered laudable, much of the software was unevenly adopted after being developed at great expense to compete with commercial offerings.
In March 2011, an NCI working group assessment concluded that caBIG "...expanded far beyond those goals to implement an overly complex and ambitious software enterprise of NCI-branded tools, especially in the Clinical Trial Management System (CTMS) space. These have produced limited traction in the cancer community, compete against established commercial vendors, and create financially untenable long-term maintenance and support commitments for the NCI". In 2012, the NCI announced a new program the National Cancer Informatics Program (NCIP) as a successor to caBIG.


== caGrid ==
 
The caGrid  computer network and software supported the cancer Biomedical Informatics Grid (caBIG) initiative of the National Cancer Institute of the US National Institutes of Health.
caBIG was a voluntary virtual informatics infrastructure that connects data, research tools, scientists, and organizations.
In 2013, the National Cancer Informatics Program (NCIP) re-released caGrid under the BSD 3-Clause license, and migrated the source repository to github.
caGrid used version 4.03 of the Globus Toolkit, produced by the Globus Alliance.


=== Program management ===
The caGrid project and much of its funding was managed by Booz Allen Hamilton.


=== Portal ===
The caGrid Portal was a Web-based application built on Liferay that enables users to discover and interact with the services that are available on the caGrid infrastructure. Portal serves as the primary visualization tool for the caGrid middleware. It also served as a caBIG information source. Through the caGrid Portal, users had access to information about caBIG participants, caGrid points of contact (POCs), and caGrid-related news and events.


=== Workflow ===
caGrid workflow uses:

Active BPEL
Taverna


=== Contributors ===
NCI CBIIT Program
Booz Allen Hamilton
Ohio State University
University of Chicago, Argonne National Laboratory
Duke University
SemanticBits, LLC
Ekagra Software Technologies


=== Criticism ===
In March 2011, the NCI published an extensive review of CaBIG, the NCI CBIIT program that funded the caGrid software development (see [1], [2]), which included a long list of problems with the program, and recommended that most of the software development projects should be discontinued.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Abernethy AP, Coeytauz R, Rowe K, Wheeler JL, Lyerly HK[link removed]. Electronic patient-reported data capture as the foundation of a learning health care system. JCO. 2009;27:6522.
Buetow KH.[link removed] caBIG: proof of concept for personalized cancer care. JCO. 2009:27 Suppl 15S:e20712.
Holford ME, Rajeevan H, Zhao H, Kidd KK, Cheung KH (2009). "Semantic web-based integration of cancer pathways and allele frequency data". Cancer Informatics. 8: 19–30. doi:10.4137/CIN.S1006. PMC 2664696. PMID 19458791.
Huang T, Shenoy PJ, Sinha R, Graiser M, Bumpers KW, Flowers CR (2009). "Development of the Lymphoma Enterprise Architecture Database: A caBIG Silver level compliant System". Cancer Informatics. 8: 45–64. doi:10.4137/CIN.S940. PMC 2675136. PMID 19492074.
Kunz I, Lin MC, Frey L (2009). "Metadata mapping and reuse in caBIG". BMC Bioinformatics. 10 (Suppl 2): S4. doi:10.1186/1471-2105-10-S2-S4. PMC 2646244. PMID 19208192.
Ohmann C, Kuchinke W (2009). "Future developments of medical informatics from the viewpoint of networked clinical research. Interoperability and integration". Methods of Information in Medicine. 48 (1): 45–54. doi:10.3414/me9137. PMID 19151883. S2CID 23089030.{{cite journal}}:  CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link)
Phan JH, Moffitt RA, Stokes TH, et al. (June 2009). "Convergence of biomarkers, bioinformatics and nanotechnology for individualized cancer treatment". Trends in Biotechnology. 27 (6): 350–8. doi:10.1016/j.tibtech.2009.02.010. PMC 3779321. PMID 19409634.
Staes CJ, Xu W, LeFevre SD, et al. (2009). "A case for using grid architecture for state public health informatics: the Utah perspective". BMC Medical Informatics and Decision Making. 9: 32. doi:10.1186/1472-6947-9-32. PMC 2707374. PMID 19545428.
Peter A. Covitz; Frank Hartel; Carl Schaefer; Sherri De Coronado; Gilberto Fragoso; Himanso Sahni; Scott Gustafson & Kenneth H. Buetow (April 23, 2003). "caCORE: A common infrastructure for cancer informatics". Bioinformatics. 19 (18): 2404–2412. doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btg335. PMID 14668224.
“Health IT gets personal,” InformationWeek (11/13/09)
“Health data in the raw,” Archived 2010-12-26 at the Wayback Machine Government Health IT (11/6/09)
“NCI to open research grid to cancer patient 'army',” Archived 2010-11-26 at the Wayback Machine Government Health IT (10/9/09)
“GridBriefing: The future of Healthcare - eHealth and Grid Computing,” GridTalk (9/09)
“Collaboration and Sustainability are Front and Center as caBIG Celebrates Fifth Anniversary,” GenomeWeb/BioInform (7/09)
“Sharing the Wealth of Data,” Scientific American (5/09)
“Translational Research Drives Demand for 'Virtual' Biobanks Built on caBIG Tools,” GenomeWeb/BioInfom (4/3/09)
"caGrid". Archived from the original on 2012-02-05. Retrieved 2016-11-22.
"caGrid 1.0: An Enterprise Grid Infrastructure for Biomedical Research".
"Enabling the Provisioning and Management of a Federated Grid Trust Fabric".
"Introduce: An Open Source Toolkit for Rapid Development of Strongly Typed Grid Services".
"caGrid: design and implementation of the core architecture of the cancer biomedical informatics grid".
Tan, Wei; Foster, Ian; Madduri, Ravi (2008). "Combining the Power of Taverna and caGrid: Scientific Workflows that Enable Web-Scale Collaboration". IEEE Internet Computing. 12 (6): 61–68. doi:10.1109/MIC.2008.120. S2CID 2690862.


== External links ==
caBIG Consumer/User Website (non-technical)
caBIG Community Website (technical)
caGrid wiki
caGrid gforge project
caGrid Portal


=== Components ===
Introduce Toolkit, also a Globus Incubator Project
Data Services
Metadata
Security
Credential Delegation Service (CDS)
Dorian
GAARDS
Grid Grouper
Grid Trust Service (GTS)
WebSSO - Web Single Sign-on component, based on JASIG CAS

The 2004 Cup of China was the fourth event of six in the 2004–05 ISU Grand Prix of Figure Skating, a senior-level international invitational competition series. It was held at the Capital Gymnasium in Beijing on November 11–14. Medals were awarded in the disciplines of men's singles, ladies' singles, pair skating, and ice dancing. Skaters earned points toward qualifying for the 2004–05 Grand Prix Final. The compulsory dance was the Golden Waltz.


== Results ==


=== Men ===


=== Ladies ===


=== Pairs ===


=== Ice dancing ===


== External links ==
2004 Cup of China

Melki Sedek Huang (born 15 October 2001) is an Indonesian activist and politician who was the chairman of the student executive council at University of Indonesia (UI) from 21 January 2023 until his dismissal on 18 December on the same year following alleged conspiracy regarding a sexual harassment case that remain full of unanswered question. In 2024, Melki joined the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P) and currently serving as it Deputy Chairman in West Kalimantan.


== Life and career ==
Melki was born on 15 October 2001 in Pontianak, West Kalimantan. Melki graduated from SMA Negeri 1 Pontianak in 2019 and studied law at the University of Indonesia. As a student activist, he was involved in organizations such as the Badan Eksekutif Mahasiswa Universitas Indonesia (BEM UI). Melki also did internship in several institutions, such as the Legal Aid Institute in Jakarta from August until November 2021, Tampubolon, Tjoe, and Partners Law Firm from August 2022 until February 2023.
In the law faculty's student executive council, he began his involvement as a staff and slowly rising to become the Deputy Head of Legal Research and Strategic Action Department. Melki moved to UI's student executive council in 2022, where he became the coordinator for social and political affairs. He ran for the chairman of UI's student council in November 2022 and was elected with a majority of votes in January 2023. Melki became the first chairman of the organization to come from a minority group in history.
In 2024, he joined Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle (PDI-P) and preparing the West Kalimantan Red and White Cadets, the wing of the PDI-P. Melki added that he was interested in joining because he believes that PDI-P is committed to fighting for the constitution. He is currently serving as the Deputy Chairman of PDIP in West Kalimantan.


== Controversy ==


=== Puan Maharani rat meme ===
On 24 March 2023, UI's student executive council Twitter and Instagram account published a meme depicting the face of Speaker of the House of Representatives, Puan Maharani, in a rat body. In the video, the House of Representatives building is split open and a mouse appears from the rubble which was followed by the appearance of Puan in a rat body, with the narration likening the House of Representatives to the People's Robbers Council. This video was intended as a criticism for the House of Representatives, which enacted the Omnibus Law on Job Creation. Huang said that he often received attacks from buzzers after posting the meme.
Indonesian netizens had various diverging reactions to the video, some supported the meme while others said that the students instead should have demonstrated on the streets. University of Indonesia representative, Amelita Lusia, said that they respect the freedom to convey an aspirations in a civilized manner and added that the freedom of expression must also be addressed by careful analysis of issues and in accordance with etiquette, culture, law, and maintaining order, security, safety, and respect for all parties.
Hendrawan Supratikno, a politician for the Indonesian Democratic Party of Struggle, responded to the video said that criticism is part of the student struggle but there are also limitations that must be considered and added that don't let passion or persistent enthusiasm to defend a position slip into swearing that degrades the essence of the task, and goes outside the corridors and academic ethics. Many of politicians gave a various reaction such as United Development Party member, Arsul Sani, said that if the delivery was carried out by harassing the Puan like this it would not get any attention from the members of the House of Representatives in general and added that in general there will be only suspicions that students were being used by other parties. General Treasurer of NasDem Party, Ahmad Saroni, said that critics must be conveyed substantively and not in symbolic ways or even by attacking someone personally. Vice Chairman of Gerindra Party, Habiburokhman, said that policies and politicians may be criticized but the institution must still be maintained and respected. He also compared what the Student Executive Board did with the 98 activists and said that the 98 activists fought against government policies at that time in intellectual ways.
Faldo Maldini, Special Staff of the Minister of State Secretary and the former Chairman of The Student Executive Board, accused Huang funded by foreign parties for political interests in the campaign to reject the job copyright law.


=== 2023 UI's Tuition Fee riot ===
By mid-2023, University of Indonesia increased tuition fees to more than four times the usual amount. University of Indonesia claimed that government assistance was decreasing and they needed to improve the quality of education. This policy resulted in hundreds of University of Indonesia students being unable to afford tuition fees and at risk of dropping out.
This policy was met with strong protests from all University of Indonesia students. They organized social movements and demonstrations for days. On the last day of the demonstration, there were building damages and severe clashes between University of Indonesia students and campus security guards. These clashes resulted in Melki getting injured and being sanctioned by the Rector.


=== 2024 Presidential Candidate Debate ===
On 23 August 2023, Melki invited the three of 2024 Indonesian Presidential Candidate such as Anies Baswedan, Ganjar Pranowo, and Prabowo, to hold a debate at the University of Indonesia on 14 September 2023. He invited all of the students and allowed the public to attend the debate event. His invitation were responded by Baswedan, Habiburokhman who represented Prabowo, and Said Abdullah who represented Ganjar Pranowo.


=== Accusation of being threatened by the authorities ===
On 25 November 2023, Melki stated that his WhatsApp account has been hacked. He said that he was intimidated by the authorities on 28 October by visiting his school and home and asking about his personal information. Melki later added that he believed it was related to the increasingly heated atmosphere in the 2024 presidential election and affecting critical community groups like himself. West Kalimantan Regional Police Chief Inspector General Pipit Rismanto denied this and confirmed that none of his members were involved in the alleged intimidation. Mahfud MD responded and said that he will sent a team to carry out additional investigations regarding the alleged intimidation to Melki and added that if this turned out to be true, the police had violated the constitution. The alleged intimidation he experienced was then conveyed by Ganjar Pranowo who said that democracy is often advocated for respect, but law enforcement officers often behave in an intimidating manner which must be resolved immediately.


=== Sexual assault ===
On 18 December 2023, Huang was temporarily dismissed from his position as chairman of the University of Indonesia Student Executive Board because he was suspected of committing sexual assault. However, he didn't know about the rules that he broke and said that he never did a sexual assault, and will face legal proceedings if the report is true. University of Indonesia representative, Amelita Lusia, said that the matter was an internal matter of the Indonesian University Student Executive Board so public comments could not be given.
Melki's deputy, Shifa Anindya Hartono, responded and said that the student executive had received the report and was carrying out an investigation. Chair of the Task Force for Preventing and Handling Sexual Violence University of Indonesia, Manneke Budiman, said that they had received a report of alleged sexual violence committed by Huang. However, Melki's dismissal was carried out as a procedure until the case had finished investigated. On 29 January 2024, Huang was proven to be guilty for doing a sexual assault and received a suspension for one semester from Rector of the University of Indonesia, Ari Kuncoro. 
On 31 January, Melki submitted a letter of objection to the decision and requested a reinvestigation of his case. He also accused that the decision was unfair due to the lack of transparency and irregularities.


== References ==

Matewa Media is a New Zealand production company that dubs Disney animated films into the Māori language.


== Productions ==


=== Moana Reo Māori (2017) ===

Matewa Media was formed by Tweedie Waititi and Chelsea Winstanley in 2017 after seeing how popular the 2016 film Moana was with Winstanley's children. With the help of Waititi's cousin and Winstanley's husband Taika Waititi, who wrote the initial screenplay of Moana and was at the time working on Thor: Ragnarok, they secured the dubbing rights from Disney. They received funding from Disney, Air New Zealand, and Te Māngai Pāho who gave $160,000. It was announced in June 2017, with high school student Jaedyn Randell and Te Kāea newsreader Piripi Taylor cast as the lead roles of Moana and Maui respectively, while Rachel House, Temuera Morrison, and Jemaine Clement reprised their roles from the English version. A total of 250 people auditioned for the role of Moana. House also served as the performance director, while Rob Ruha was the musical director.
The film premiered on 11 September 2017, during Te Wiki o te Reo Māori. It was screened for free in thirty cinemas around the country, with no English subtitles. The soundtrack was released in November 2017, and the film launched on the Disney+ streaming service on 26 June 2020.


=== The Lion King Reo Māori and Frozen Reo Māori (2022) ===

Māori dubs of the 1994 film The Lion King and the 2013 film Frozen were announced in July 2021, with Matewa Media getting $500,000 in funding from NZ On Air to produce them in December 2021.
The cast of The Lion King Reo Māori was announced in May 2022, with Mataara Stokes as Simba, Arihia Cassidy as Nala, Piripi Taylor as Mufasa, Matu Ngaropo as Scar, and Matai Rae and Justin Rogers as Timon and Pumbaa respectively. Each group of animals speak their own Māori dialect from five different iwi; the lions are Waikato Tainui, the hyenas are Ngāti Kahungunu, Timon and Pumbaa are Te Tai Tokerau Māori, Zazu is Taranaki, and Rafiki is Ngāi Tūhoe. Matewa Media appealed directly to Elton John for permission to dub his version of "Can You Feel the Love Tonight" in the closing credits, becoming the first foreign version of the film to do so. Stan Walker performed the cover. The film released on 21 June 2022, with the premiere attended by the Māori King Tūheitia Paki.
The cast of Frozen Reo Māori was announced in September 2022, with Jaedyn Randell as Anna, Awhimai Fraser as Elsa, Kawiti Waetford as Kristoff, James Tito as Hans, and Pere Wihongi as Olaf. Due to the colder climate, the film is in the dialect of Ngāi Tahu. The film premiered on 26 October 2022.
Both films launched on Disney+ in November 2022.


=== Coco Reo Māori (2023) ===

At the premiere of Frozen Reo Māori, Waititi announced that the 2021 film Encanto and the 2017 film Coco were next. Matewa Media secured another $500,000 in funding from NZ On Air to produce them in December 2022, and the release of Coco Reo Māori was set for Matariki 2023. The cast was announced on 9 June 2023, with Mānuera Mānihera as Miguel, Troy Kingi as Héctor, Justin Rogers as Ernesto de la Cruz, Naomi Herewini-Houia as Mamá Imelda, Kuini Moehau-Reedy as Abuelita, and Rachel House as Mamá Coco. The characters speak in the Ngāti Porou dialect due to the iwi having many descendants of Spanish trader Manuel José. Previous dubs had gone through post-production in America, but for Coco Reo Māori this was done at Park Road Post in Wellington.


=== Encanto Reo Māori (2024) ===

The Māori dub of Encanto was formally announced in May 2023. The cast was announced on 5 August 2024, with Te Waimarie Ngatai-Callaghan as Mirabel, Hinetu Dell as Abuela, Poroaki Merrit-McDonald as Bruno, Anahera Taare as Isabela, Marcia Hopa as Luisa's speaking voice, and Awatea Wihongi as Luisa's singing voice. The film will release on 12 September.


=== Moana 2 Reo Māori (2024) ===

On 28 November 2024, the Māori dub of Moana 2 released in New Zealand concurrently with the English language version. The cast of the first film returned, with new characters being voiced by Arihia Cassidy, Rutene Spooner and Nepia Takuira-Mita.


== References ==

Filippovskoye (Russian: Филипповское) is a rural locality (a selo) and the administrative center of Filippovskoye Rural Settlement, Kirzhachsky District, Vladimir Oblast, Russia. The population was 644 as of 2010. There are 38 streets.


== Geography ==
Filippovskoye is located 21 km southwest of Kirzhach (the district's administrative centre) by road. Alenino is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

Christopher Green was an American politician. He served as mayor and first trustee of Sacramento, California, from years 1872 to 1877. He was Sacramento's 14th mayor and its 12th elected mayor. Green was associated with the Republican Party and had heavy support from the Central Pacific Railway Company. Jabez Turner succeeded Green as mayor.
When the Central Pacific moved their headquarters out of Sacramento, Green was one of the community leaders to rally and promote business, helping to form a Board of Trade in 1873.


== References ==

Behrouz Rahbarifar (Persian: بهروز رهبری‌فر, born July 17, 1971, in Tehran) is a retired Iranian football player.


== Club career ==
Rahbarifar Joined Persepolis in 1993 under Ali Parvin, playing 9 seasons with them. at the beginning of 2003–04 season, Akbar Ghamkhar became chairman of the club and he decided to make reformations and players such as Rahbarifar who had good relations with Ali Parvin, were not included in his schemes. So Rahbarifar left the club and joined Pas. Rahbarifar scored his only goal for Pas against Persepolis from a penalty kick.


== Career statistics ==


=== Club ===

1 includes 2 matches in Tehran Hazfi Cup and 2 matches in Bushehr Basij Festival.
2 includes 2 matches in Naghsh-e-Jahan Cup and 4 Friendlies.
3 includes 3 matches in Naghsh-e-Jahan Cup.
4 Persepolis withdrew in 1997–98 League in the middle of season.


=== International ===


== Honours ==
Persepolis
Iranian Football League (4): 1995–96, 1996–97, 1998–99, 1999–2000
Hazfi Cup (1): 1998–99
Pas
Iranian Football League (1): 2003–04


== References ==


== External links ==
Behrouz Rahbarifar at National-Football-Teams.com
Profile at teammelli.com

John Stembridge is an Emeritus Professor of Mathematics at the University of Michigan. He received his Ph.D. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1985 under the direction of Richard P. Stanley. His dissertation was entitled Combinatorial Decompositions of Characters of SL(n,C). He has had 8 Ph.D. students.
He is one of the participants in the Atlas of Lie Groups and Representations.


== Research ==
His research interests are in combinatorics, with particular emphasis on the following areas:

Topics related to algebra, especially representation theory
Coxeter groups and root systems
Enumerative combinatorics
Symmetric functions
Hypergeometric series and q-series
Computational problems and algorithms in algebra
He was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 2000 for work in Combinatorial aspects of root systems and Weyl characters..
He has written Maple packages that can be used for computing symmetric functions, posets, root systems, and finite Coxeter groups.


== References ==

The 2007 Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council election took place on 3 May 2007 to elect members of Sandwell Metropolitan Borough Council in the West Midlands, England. One third of the council was up for election and the Labour Party stayed in overall control of the council.
After the election, the composition of the council was:

Labour 51
Conservative 10
Liberal Democrat 6
British National Party 4
Vacant 1


== Campaign ==
Before the election Labour ran the council with 50 councillors, compared to 12 for the Conservatives, 5 Liberal Democrats, 4 British National Party and 1 independent. Labour defended 19 of the seats being contested, with the other parties hoping to make gains from Labour.
The British National Party put up 15 candidates, aiming to build on the 3 gains they had made in the 2006 election. The party campaigned on immigration, housing and crime and were hoping to take all 3 seats in Princes End ward for the first time anywhere in the United Kingdom. However the British National Party was accused of "distortion and lies" by Labour and the Conservatives described the British National Party's councillors as an "embarrassment".
In the last couple of days before polling day, the council sent an advertising van around the area to remind voters about the election.


== Election results ==
The results saw the Labour Party easily stay in control of the council, with the Labour leader of the council describing the results as "remarkable". Labour gained one seat from the Conservatives in St Pauls ward to move to 51 seats after winning 20 of the seats contested. The Conservatives also lost a seat in Yew Tree to the Liberal Democrats. They meant both the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats won 2 seats each in the election, with the Conservatives dropping to 10 seats and the Liberal Democrats going up to 6.
The British National Party failed to win any seats, staying on 4 councillors, coming closest to victory in Princes End where they were 20 votes behind Labour. A further seat was vacant after independent councillor Alan Burkitt was automatically disqualified after having been given a suspended sentence.


== Ward results ==


== References ==

Rupaundha is a village located in Satbarwa Tehsil within the Palamu district of Jharkhand state, India. It is one of 58 villages in Satbarwa Block along with villages like Nawadih and Purnadih.
The Village's total population is 30 inhabitants (21 males, 9 females).


== References ==


== External links ==
Map of Rupaundha from Indianmap.net.in

Mission Nuestra Señora del Espíritu Santo de Zúñiga, also known as Aranama Mission or Mission La Bahía, was a Roman Catholic mission established by Spain in 1722 in the Viceroyalty of New Spain—to convert native Karankawa Indians to Christianity.  Together with its nearby military fortress, Presidio La Bahía, the mission upheld Spanish territorial claims in the New World against encroachment from France. The third and final location near Goliad, Texas, is maintained now as part of Goliad State Park and Historic Site


== Establishment ==
Established on 1722 on Matagorda Bay near La Salle's Fort Saint Louis on Garcitas Creek, as the mission and complementing presidio the fort was intended to secure the Texas coastline from the French and to gather the local Cocos, Copanes, and Cujanes. Being unable to attract the Indians to stay at the mission and due to violence with the Spanish soldiers, the mission was relocated only four years later, to a more favorable location on the Guadalupe River. Artifacts from this settlement are currently on display at the Museum of the Coastal Bend in Victoria.
Moved in 1726 near Victoria, the mission was established among the Tamique and Aranama Indians in Mission Valley. Dams and stone acequias were built to carry water from the river to the mission. A ranching outpost was also built of mortar and stone at Tonkawa Bank, on the river about 12 miles below. The presidio also followed and was built at what was later to become Fernando de León's Ranch. The establishment prospered for 26 years, producing enough grain and hay to trade with other Spanish settlements. It was at this time that the foundation for cattle and horse ranching started. Although prosperous, Spanish officials recommended moving the mission to secure the area between Béxar and East Texas from the encroachment of the French and English.


== Relocation to Goliad ==
Mission La Bahía moved in 1749 to what is now Goliad, Texas on the San Antonio River. Temporary "jacales" housing was built from log and clay (waddle and daub), with construction of stone and mortar outer defensive walls and interior buildings initiated—but not reaching completion until 1758. The mission facilities inside the surrounding stone walls included rooms to house the priests and the Indian families, a granary, workrooms, and a separately located forge.  Just across the river the complementing fortress Presidio La Bahía was built.  The mission found success educating and serving the tribes Aranama, Piguique, Manos de Perro, Tamique, Tawakoni, and Tonkawa the area, but by the early 1830s was facing opposition from raiding Apaches and Comanches.
The mission became the first large cattle ranch in Texas, with near 40,000 free-roaming cattle at the height of production in about 1778. The large herds of Texas longhorns and mustangs were cared for by the vaquero Indians from the mission. The mission inhabitants also grew large crops of grain, fruit, and vegetables to support themselves and for trade with others. Cattle and livestock were also driven to and traded with the other missions in east Texas and western Louisiana.


== Closing and restoration ==
The mission was to be secularized in 1794, but La Bahía remained in service until Mexican Independence in 1821. However, two Franciscans refused to leave and remained as parish priests. In 1830 the mission was finally secularized. With most Indians having already left, the premium lands of the mission were acquired by the local Mexican and American colonists. The mission itself devolved to the City of Goliad. The old mission's stones were also allowed to be removed and used for local construction. The city leased the site between 1848 and 1856, first for a Baptist school and then a Presbyterian school, but the building gradually fell into ruin.
The mission ruins became part of the newly created Goliad State Park in 1931. In 1933, the Civil Works Administration began reconstruction of the stone chapel and granary following drawings from the National Park Service and San Antonio architect Atlee Ayres. Civilian Conservation Corps Company 3822(V), with funds provided by the Works Progress Administration, finished restoring the mission between 1935 and 1941. Additional construction in the 1960s and 1980s brought the mission back its 1749 appearance.
The mission was listed on the National Register of Historic Places on August 22, 1977. The park is currently operated by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department.


== See also ==

National Register of Historic Places listings in Goliad County, Texas
Recorded Texas Historic Landmarks in Goliad County


== References ==


== External links ==

Goliad State Park and Historic Site website (Texas Parks & Wildlife Dept)

Louise Rose Babaud de la Chaussade (1747-1817), was a French memoir writer.  She is known for her memoirs, describing her life during the French Revolution.  Her memoirs how she managed the major iron works industry during the imprisonment of her spouse during the Reign of Terror.


== References ==

Frederick Ross Johnson, OC (December 13, 1931 – December 29, 2016) was a Canadian businessman, best known as the chief executive officer of RJR Nabisco in the 1980s.


== Early life and education ==
Born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, on December 13, 1931, into a lower-middle-class family, Johnson used a military cadet scholarship program to attend the University of Manitoba, where he graduated in 1952 with a Bachelor of Commerce degree and was President of the fraternity Phi Delta Theta. He went on to earn an MBA from the University of Toronto in 1956.


== Career ==
Johnson first worked as an accountant for General Electric in Montreal and as a vice-president of merchandising for the T. Eaton Company before being named president of Standard Brands Ltd.
Johnson negotiated a merger between Standard Brands and Nabisco with Nabisco CEO Bob Schaeberle in 1981. Soon after, Schaeberle left Nabisco, and Johnson took the helm, replacing many Nabisco executives with ones from Standard Brands. Growing restless, he initiated talks that led to the Nabisco-RJ Reynolds merger in 1985. He was soon appointed president and CEO of RJR Nabisco. Johnson appeared on the December 5, 1988, cover of Time magazine under the headline "A Game of Greed". After dismal stock performance following the 1987 stock market crash, Johnson decided to put the company in play. Originally, he planned to execute a management-led leveraged buyout with Shearson Lehman Hutton. Events quickly escalated into a takeover contest.
He was extensively profiled in the book Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabisco by Wall Street Journal columnists Bryan Burrough and John Helyar, and in the movie of the same name made for HBO. In the film, Johnson was portrayed by James Garner.
Following the RJR Nabisco takeover by Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. led by Henry Kravis, Johnson started his own private investment company, RJM Group, Inc., based in Atlanta, Georgia. Until he resigned in March 2009, he was chairman of AuthentiDate Holding Corp., a United States publicly traded company. He served on the board of directors of several companies including Bentley Pharmaceuticals. Johnson also served on the advisory board of Power Corporation of Canada.


== Personal life ==
Johnson maintained homes in La Jolla, California and Jupiter, Florida.
He was made a trustee of Duke University and served on the advisory councils of several universities. The Distinguished Visitors Program at the University of Toronto Centre for the Study of the United States was endowed by Johnson in 2001.


== Death ==
Johnson died on December 29, 2016, at his home in Jupiter, Florida, seventeen days after his 85th birthday from pneumonia.


== References ==

Gökçen Efe (1891 – 16 November 1919) was a Turkish folk hero, who showed bravery during the Turkish War of Independence.


== Life ==
He was born in Ödemiş, İzmir Province. His real name was Hüseyin, but he used the name Gökçen Efe after choosing to live an efe life as an aide to the well-known Çakırcalı Mehmet Efe (1872–1911), who was his relative. After Greek army began invading Turkish territory on 15 May 1919, he began to fight against the regular Greek troops as a guerrilla fighter under the general principles of Turkish National Movement (Turkish: Kuvai Milliye). During the summer of 1919, he fought successfully against the Greek troops usually with hit-and-run tactics. In November, he tried to confront a Greek advance in the village Fata near Ödemiş. But, at the end of a three-day fighting, he died of a bullet wound on 16 November 1919.


== Legacy ==
In 1957, Turkish government renamed the town of Fata, after merging with another settlement, to Gökçen in his honor.


== References ==

Loft is also a surname. Notable people with this name include:

Ange Loft, Canadian performing artist
Arthur Loft (1897–1947), American actor
Ben Loft (born 1978), Australian volleyball player
Doug Loft (born 1986), English footballer
Fred Loft (1861–1934), Mohawk Nation activist
George W. Loft (1865–1943), American businessman and politician
Gerard Francis Loft (1933–2007), New Zealand Roman Catholic bishop
John Henry Loft (1769–1849), British soldier and politician
Vagn Loft (1915–1976), Danish field hockey player
William Loft (1803–1887), British farmer and steeplechase rider, son of John Henry


== See also ==
Loft (disambiguation)

The Town and Country Building (also known as the Lyric Theatre (before 1913) and New Lyric Theatre (ca. 1913-ca. 1925) is a historic commercial building located at Liberty in Sullivan County, New York.


== Description and history ==
It was built in about 1890 as a combination meeting hall and retail space and has been occupied by a series of stores, theatres, and social groups. The last substantive exterior renovation was about 1950 when it received the current Art Moderne facade. The building consists of two large rectangular blocks. The front block is two and one half stories tall and seven bays deep, surmounted by a gable roof. The rear block was built about 1950 and is one and one half stories tall, five bays deep, constructed of concrete block and surmounted by a broad gable roof. The Town and Country Men's and Boy's Clothing Store occupied the storefront for 50 years until the 1990s.
It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2004. Allan Bérubé (1946–2007) helped to save the building.


== References ==


== External links ==
National Register Celebrates Preservation Week -- Liberty, New York, May 2005

Houston County Airport (ICAO: KDKR, FAA LID: DKR) is a public airport located three miles (5 km) southeast of the central business district of Crockett, in Houston County, Texas, United States. It is owned by Houston County.
Although most U.S. airports use the same three-letter location identifier for the FAA and IATA, Houston County Airport is assigned DKR by the FAA but has no designation from the IATA (which assigned DKR to Dakar-Yoff-Léopold Sédar Senghor International Airport in Dakar, Senegal).


== Facilities and aircraft ==
Houston County Airport covers an area of 55 acres (22 ha) which contains one Asphalt paved runway, 2/20, measuring 4,000 x 75 ft (1,219 x 23 m).
For the 12-month period ending October 5, 2022, the airport had 8,800 aircraft operations, average 24 per day, 100% of which were general aviation.


== See also ==
List of airports in Texas


== References ==


== External links ==
Resources for this airport:
FAA airport information for DKR
AirNav airport information for KDKR
FlightAware airport information and live flight tracker
NOAA/NWS weather observations: current, past three days
SkyVector aeronautical chart, Terminal Procedures

Ypsilantis railway station (Greek: Σιδηροδρομικός Σταθμός Υψηλάντη, romanized: Sidirodromikós stathmós Ypsilantis) is a railway station in Ypsilantis, Boeotia, Greece. The station opened on 8 March 1904, along with the rest of the line. It is served by Regional trains to Athens and Leianokladi.


== History ==
The station opened on 8 March 1904., along with the rest of the line. In 1920 Hellenic State Railways or SEK was established, and the line became part of the network. During the Axis occupation of Greece (1941–44), Athens was controlled by German military forces, and the line was used for the transport of troops and weapons. During the occupation (and especially during the German withdrawal in 1944), the network was severely damaged by both the German army and Greek resistance groups. The track and rolling stock replacement took time following the civil war, with normal service levels resumed around 1948.
In 1970 OSE became the legal successor to the SEK, taking over responsibilities for most of Greece's rail infrastructure. On 1 January 1971, the station and most of the Greek rail infrastructure were transferred to the Hellenic Railways Organisation S.A., a state-owned corporation. Freight traffic declined sharply when the state-imposed monopoly of OSE for transporting agricultural products and fertilisers ended in the early 1990s. Many small stations of the network with little passenger traffic were closed down. It was during this time that buslike shelters were installed on both platforms.
In 2001 the infrastructure element of OSE was created, known as GAIAOSE; it would henceforth be responsible for the maintenance of stations, bridges and other elements of the network, as well as the leasing and the sale of railway assists. In 2005, TrainOSE was created as a brand within OSE to concentrate on rail services and passenger interface. In 2009, with the Greek debt crisis unfolding OSE's Management was forced to reduce services across the network. Timetables were cutback and routes closed, as the government-run entity attempted to reduce overheads. In 2017 OSE's passenger transport sector was privatised as TrainOSE, currently a wholly owned subsidiary of Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane infrastructure, including stations, remained under the control of OSE. In July 2022, the station began being served by Hellenic Train, the rebranded TranOSE
In September 2023, due in part to storm Danial services were severely disrupted between Oinoi - Tithorea when power was disrupted on that section of line, which led to long delays thought the evening. 
The station building is owned by GAIAOSE, which since 3 October 2001 owns most railway stations in Greece: the company was also in charge of rolling stock from December 2014 until October 2025, when Greek Railways (the owner of the Piraeus–Platy railway) took over that responsibility.


== Facilities ==
The station has 2 Basic shelters on each platform but no digital display screens. The station remains little more than an unstaffed halt.


== Services ==
It is served by Regional services between Athens and Leianokladi.  The station sees around 2 trains per-day.


== Station layout ==


== See also ==
Railway stations in Greece
Hellenic Railways Organization
Hellenic Train
P.A.Th.E./P.


== References ==

Christian Shamed Burgos Atala (born August 24, 1993) is a  Mexican television personality living and performing in South Korea. He rose to prominence in 2016 as a cast member of the variety talk show Non-Summit. He is also known for his recurring appearance on Welcome, First Time in Korea? and Where Is My Friend's Home. 
In 2018, he was awarded a merit plaque by the Mexican Embassy in Korea in appreciation of his efforts to promote Mexico to the Korean public.


== Filmography ==


=== Variety show ===


=== Television series ===


== Awards ==
2018 Embassy of Mexico in Korea - Achievement plaque


== References ==

KNZS (100.3 FM) is a radio station airing a classic rock format licensed to Arlington, Kansas.  The station serves the Hutchinson, Kansas area, and is owned by Ad Astra Per Aspera Broadcasting, Inc.


== History ==
The station debuted as KAPH (Kingman, Anthony, Pratt, Harper), a 50,000 watt station licensed to Kingman, Kansas and owned by Ron Bliss, which broadcast a full-service and adult contemporary format. It was affiliated with University of Kansas, Kansas State University, and Kansas City Royals for its sports programming. It also broadcast Kansas Information Network and Kansas Agricultural Network. It initially broadcast from 5 AM to midnight.
In December 1990, for-profit Alpha Corporation (part of New Life Fellowship) purchased KAPH and changed the call letters to KTCM. Religious programming on KTCM was also simulcast on sister station 91.1 KZZD (later KCFN). KTCM later broadcast Spanish programming.
KTCM was sold to Ad Astra Per Aspera Broadcasting Inc. in 2007.


== References ==


== External links ==
KNZS's official website
Facility details for Facility ID 1137 (KNZS)   in the FCC Licensing and Management System
KNZS in Nielsen Audio's FM station database

The 11th (East Africa) Infantry Division was a British infantry division consisting of troops from the British Colonial Auxiliary Forces which was formed in February 1943 during World War II. Consisting of East African troops, the division fought in the Burma campaign.


== Formation ==
In 1943, the 11th (East Africa) Division was formed primarily of troops from British East Africa. The division should not be confused with the earlier 11th (African) Division which was composed of brigades both from British East Africa and from Nigeria in British West Africa, fought in the East African Campaign and was disbanded in late 1941.


== Combat history ==

The Division was composed of troops from Kenya, Uganda, Nyasaland, Tanganyika, Southern Rhodesia, Northern Rhodesia, and from Belgian Congo. The 11th (East Africa) Division fought with the Fourteenth Army in Burma during the Burma Campaign. In the later part of 1944, the division pursued the Japanese retreating from Imphal down the Kabaw valley and established bridgeheads over the Chindwin River. In 1945, elements of the division played a part in the Battle of Meiktila and Mandalay.


== Commanding officers ==
Major-General Charles Christopher Fowkes (February 1943 – December 1944)
Major-General Robert Mansergh (January 1945 – February 1945)
Major-General William Dimoline (March 1945 – August 1945)


== Order of battle ==


=== 21st East African Brigade ===
Under Brig. J. F. Macnab:

2nd (Nyasaland) Battalion, King's African Rifles
4th (Uganda) Battalion, King's African Rifles
1st Battalion, Nigeria Regiment
1st Battalion, Northern Rhodesia Regiment


=== 25th East African Brigade ===
Under Brig. N. C. Hendricks:

11th (Kenya) Battalion, King's African Rifles
26th (Tanganyika) Battalion, King's African Rifles
34th (Uganda) Battalion, King's African Rifles
1st Battalion, Rhodesia Regiment


=== 26th East African Brigade ===
Under Brig. V. K. H. Channer (to 18 November 1944), and Brig. A. P. Walsh (from 18 November 1944):

22nd (Nyasaland) Battalion, King's African Rifles
36th (Tanganyika) Battalion, King's African Rifles
44th (Uganda) Battalion, King's African Rifles
1st Battalion, Rhodesian African Rifles (later 22nd East African Brigade, XV Indian Corps)


=== Divisional units ===
5th Battalion, King's African Rifles (divisional reconnaissance unit)
13th Battalion, King's African Rifles (HQ defence unit)
10th (Belgian Congo) Casualty Clearing Station


=== Divisional artillery ===
Under CRA Brig. J. V. D. Radford:

302nd East African Field Regiment
303rd East African Field Regiment
304th East African Field Regiment


=== Divisional engineers ===
34th East African Field Company
58th East African Field Company
64th East African Field Company
62nd East African Field Park Company


=== Divisional signals ===
11th East African Divisional Signals


== See also ==
List of British Empire divisions in the Second World War
Battle of Meiktila and Mandalay
1st SA Infantry Division


== References ==


== External links ==
British Military History - East Africa 1940 - 47
Order of Battle for 11th East Africa Division Archived 2 October 2016 at the Wayback Machine

Be Aitbaar (Urdu: بے اعتبار; lit:Discredit) was a Pakistani drama series that began airing on 11 July 2016 on Hum TV and ended on 7 December 2016. It is written by Malik Khuda Baksh and directed by Shah Hussain. It stars Saba Faisal, Javed Sheikh, Kanwar Arsalan and Behroze Sabzwari.


== Plot ==
The story begins with Uzma (Saba Faisal) visiting her cousin Jameel (Javed Sheikh)  who is suffering from cancer. A flashback is shown revealing Uzma was raped in a train journey and becomes pregnant. Uzma's wedding was arranged with Jameel but he rejects her after this incident. Uzma and her son Salman (Zaryan Hassan) are accepted by Abdul Qadir, and later gives birth to a daughter Mahzeb (Maryam Tinwari). Jameel also got married and has a daughter Kamla. Jameel apologises to Uzma and later dies. Kamla, now an orphan girl moves to Uzma's house. Salman is attracted to Kamla at first sight.
Asad (Kanwar Arsalan) runs a clothes shop. A customer (Fiza) is crazy about him but he does not share these feelings. Asad has a brother, Azaan (Salman Faisal), and his parents are Shagufta (Birjees Farooqui) and Kamal (Hashim Butt). Azaan and Mahzeb are deeply in love with each other. But his mother disapproves and would like her sons to marry in a high class.
After Asad saves Kamla from goons they fall in love and get engaged. Before the wedding Salman and Asad engage in a fight, resulting in Asad accidentally getting shot.
Another story starts from Asif (Behroze Sabzwari), introducing himself as Mahzeb's office teacher and uncle of Asad's fiancée Fiza (Shanzey Ali). Asif has a wife, Nausheen (Sabahat Bukhari), aunt of Zara (Sehra Asghar). Asif has a son, Sahir (Saqlain Bashir). Sahir has loved Kamla and goes to Kamla's home to propose her. Asif starts loving Kamla and marries her.


== Cast ==
Javed Sheikh as Jameel (Dead)
Saba Faisal as Uzma
Kanwar Arsalan as Asad (Dead)
Behroze Sabzwari as Asif
Sabahat Ali Bukhari as Nausheen Begum
Hashim Butt as Kamal
Birjees Farooqui as Shagufta
Sehrish Fatima as Kamla
Saqlain Bashir as Sahir
Marium Tinwari as Mahzeb
Hasaan Khan as Salman
Salman Faisal as Azaan
Shanzey Ali as Fiza
Sehra Asghar as Zara


== See also ==
List of programs broadcast by Hum TV
2016 in Pakistani television


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

The 1964 Tower Hamlets Council election took place on 7 May 1964 to elect members of Tower Hamlets London Borough Council in London, England. The whole council was up for election and the Labour party won control.


== Background ==
These elections were the first to the newly formed borough council. Previously elections had taken place in the Metropolitan Borough of Bethnal Green, Metropolitan Borough of Poplar and Metropolitan Borough of Stepney. These boroughs were joined to form the new London Borough of Tower Hamlets by the London Government Act 1963.
A total of 115 candidates stood for the 60 seats, across 20 wards. 6 seats in two wards were uncontested. The Labour party fielded a full slate of candidates, while the Liberal and Conservative parties stood 19 and 17 respectively. Other candidates included 13 Communists, 2 Residents, 2 Union Movement, 1 Independent and 1 Independent Labour Party. There were 14 three-seat wards, 3 four-seat wards and 3 two-seat wards.
This election had aldermen as well as directly elected councillors.  Labour got all 10 aldermen.
The Council was elected in 1964 as a "shadow authority" but did not start operations until 1 April 1965.


== Election result ==
The results saw Labour win 55 of the 60 seats, Communists 3 and Residents 2. Conservative and Liberal candidates failed to win any seats. Overall turnout in the election was 16.9%.  This turnout included 197 postal votes.


== Ward results ==


=== Bethnal Green Central ===


=== Bethnal Green East ===


=== Bethnal Green North ===


=== Bethnal Green South ===


=== Bethnal Green West ===


=== Bow North ===


=== Bow South ===


=== Bromley ===


=== Holy Trinity ===


=== Limehouse ===


=== Poplar East ===


=== Poplar Millwall ===


=== Poplar South ===


=== Poplar West ===


=== Redcoat ===


=== St Dunstan's ===


=== St Katherine's ===


=== St Mary's ===


=== Shadwell ===


=== Spitalfields ===


== References ==

Lawrence Station is a settlement in New Brunswick.  Lawrence Station centers on the intersection of Route 3 and Route 127.
Lawrence Station, New Brunswick, is a small settlement known for its historical significance and rural charm. It is located at the intersection of Route 3 and Route 127 in Charlotte County1. Historically, it was an important stop on the St. Andrews and Quebec Railway, named after Wheeler Lawrence in 18532. The area was primarily a farming and lumbering community in the late 19th century2.


== History ==


== Notable people ==


== See also ==
List of communities in New Brunswick


== References ==

Érsekhalma (Croatian: Loma) is a  village in Bács-Kiskun county, in the Southern Great Plain region of Hungary.


== Geography ==
It covers an area of 27.56 km2 (11 sq mi) and had a population of 532 people in 2022.


== Partnership ==

 Gheorghieni, Romania
 Šupljak, Serbia
 Veľká Ida, Slovakia
 Zwolle, Netherlands


== References ==

The 1996 Baltimore Orioles season was the 96th season in Baltimore Orioles franchise history, the 43rd in Baltimore, and the 5th at Oriole Park at Camden Yards.
The Orioles finished second in the American League East with a record of 88 wins and 74 losses and qualifying for the post-season as the Wild Card team. The Orioles broke the all-time record for most home runs hit by a team (set at 240 by the 1961 New York Yankees) with 257. During the season, four Orioles scored at least 100 runs, four drove in at least 100 runs and nine hit at least 20 home runs (Eddie Murray hit 10 home runs with the Indians before being traded to the Orioles, where he would hit 12 more home runs for a total of 22 for the season. Todd Zeile hit 20 home runs with the Philadelphia Phillies of the National League before he was traded to the Orioles, which technically did not count for his home run total for the season after being traded to the American League Orioles). The Orioles pitching staff allowed 209 home runs, 1,604 hits and had an ERA of 5.15. The Orioles defeated the Cleveland Indians in the ALDS and then lost in the ALCS to the New York Yankees.


== Offseason ==

November 22, 1995: Clay Bellinger was signed as a free agent with the Baltimore Orioles.
December 14, 1995: Randy Myers signed as a free agent with the Baltimore Orioles.
December 20, 1995: B. J. Surhoff was signed as a free agent with the Baltimore Orioles.
December 23, 1995: Billy Ripken was signed as a free agent with the Baltimore Orioles.
March 13, 1996: Sherman Obando was traded by the Baltimore Orioles to the Montreal Expos for Tony Tarasco.


== Regular season ==
On September 27 in Toronto, Roberto Alomar spat at home-plate umpire John Hirschbeck after getting thrown out of a game for arguing a called third strike.


=== Opening Day starters ===
Roberto Alomar
Brady Anderson
Bobby Bonilla
Jeffrey Hammonds
Chris Hoiles
Mike Mussina
Rafael Palmeiro
Cal Ripken Jr.
B. J. Surhoff
Tony Tarasco


=== Notable transactions ===
December 21, 1995: Roberto Alomar was signed as a free agent.
December 26, 1995: Traded Curtis Goodwin and Trovin Valdez to Cincinnati Reds for David Wells.
April 19, 1996: Luis Polonia was signed as a free agent with the Baltimore Orioles.
June 6, 1996: Todd Frohwirth was signed as a free agent with the Baltimore Orioles.
August 12, 1996: Luis Polonia was released by the Baltimore Orioles.
August 23, 1996: Gregg Zaun was sent by the Baltimore Orioles to the Florida Marlins to complete an earlier deal made on August 21, 1996. The Baltimore Orioles sent a player to be named later to the Florida Marlins for Terry Mathews. The Baltimore Orioles sent Gregg Zaun (August 23, 1996) to the Florida Marlins to complete the trade.
August 29, 1996: Traded Calvin Maduro and Garrett Stephenson to Philadelphia Phillies for Todd Zeile and Pete Incaviglia.


=== Season standings ===


=== Record vs. opponents ===


=== Game log ===


=== Detailed records ===


=== Roster ===


== Player stats ==


=== Batting ===
Note: G = Pos = Position; Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; Avg. = Batting average


==== Other batters ====
Note: G = Games played; AB = At bats; H = Hits; HR = Home runs; RBI = Runs batted in; Avg. = Batting average


=== Pitching ===


== Return of Eddie Murray ==
On July 21, 1996, the Baltimore Orioles re-acquired longtime Oriole Eddie Murray from the Cleveland Indians in exchange for pitcher Kent Mercker. Murray, a member of the 1983 World Series Champion Baltimore Orioles, would subsequently hit his 500th career home run later in the season. As a commemoration of this event, an orange seat was installed in the outfield stands where Murray's 500th home run landed.  The Orioles had a record of 49 wins and 46 losses before the trade, and 39–28 after the trade, not including the playoffs.  During the 1996 playoffs, Eddie Murray hit .333 and hit a home run while producing 3 RBI.
The trade for Eddie Murray sparked the Orioles to have a better record after his arrival, than before.  One can attribute that to his great leadership, which is well documented, as a Sporting News correspondent,  Michael P. Geffner said, "To think of Murray as anything other than a great player these days is not to have a dissenting opinion anymore but to be dead wrong, blind not only to the inner game but to an understanding of what truly raises baseball to something classic and beautiful--when the game is executed purely and seamlessly. Which is Eddie Murray to a T.".  The Orioles success after the trade can also be attributed to the theory of "Power, worth, and recognition, " which Thomas S. Parish who is an associate professor of psychology at Upper Iowa University, Fayette, Iowa, describes as a type of motivation where athletes attempt to out do or "show off" to each other, which leads to better statistics, and more wins. In Eddie Murray's last at-bat with the Orioles he hit a home run off of New York Yankee pitcher, Andy Pettitte.


== ALDS ==


=== Game 1, October 1 ===

Oriole Park at Camden Yards, Baltimore, Maryland


=== Game 2, October 2 ===
Oriole Park at Camden Yards, Baltimore, Maryland


=== Game 3, October 4 ===
Jacobs Field, Cleveland, Ohio


=== Game 4, October 5 ===
Jacobs Field, Cleveland, Ohio


== ALCS ==


== Jeffrey Maier incident ==
During Game 1 of the ALCS, New York Yankees shortstop Derek Jeter hit a deep fly ball to right field. Orioles outfielder Tony Tarasco camped under the ball and prepared to make a catch. However, a 12-year-old boy seated in the first row of the bleachers named Jeffrey Maier reached over the wall and caught the ball just above Tarrasco, costing the Orioles an out. Although it was fan interference, the umpire ruled the ball to be a home run. While Maier became a hero to Yankees fans, he immediately became a "symbol of the Orioles futility." The Orioles would go on to lose the series in five games.


== Farm system ==
LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: Bluefield


== References ==


== External links ==
1996 Baltimore Orioles team at Baseball-Reference
1996 Baltimore Orioles season at baseball-almanac.com

The Lead Industries Association (LIA) was a trade organization that in 1925 made it possible for tetraethyllead to be an additive of commercial gasoline and later incorporated in 1928 to promote the interests of the lead industry. The National Lead Institute was a predecessor of the Lead Industries Association. The association lobbied to lift bans on, and promote the use of, lead pipes. The association also promoted lead-based paints, which became the subject of a poisoning lawsuit filed against paint manufacturers. In 1958, the LIA and the American Zinc Institute founded an organization with a similar mission that outlasted the LIA, the International Lead Zinc Research Organization (ILZRO). In 2002, the Lead Industries Association of Sparta, NJ, went bankrupt and defunct citing that they were unable to get insurance to cover the litigation against them.
Richard Schweiker's 1972 testimony in the US Congressional record includes a transcript of a segment that aired January 28, 1972, on the NBC Chronolog program concerning lead poisoning.  The ILZRO wrote a memo refuting information presented in that show.
The LIA unsuccessfully attempted to make Ronald G. Stevens of Long Island Film Studios remove statements about lead in gasoline and from industrial pollution affecting children regardless of socioeconomic status from a 10-minute film titled Lead Poisoning, The Hidden Epidemic that won a 1972 Silver Medal from the New York Film Festival.


== References ==

Thank You is a 2013 Malayalam drama thriller film written by Arunlal Ramachandran and directed by V. K. Prakash. The firm stars Jayasurya, Honey Rose and Sethu and is produced by Shahul Hameed Marikar. Thank You was produced under the banner of Marikar Films and features music composed by Bijibal. The film's cinematography was led by Arvind Krishna and edited by Babu Rathnam. Although the film earned back its revenue from satellite rights, it did not perform well in theatres.


== Plot ==
The film is shown to be a reflection of the current socio-political system, based on the violence against women. It revolves around a person who arrives in Trivandrum city who takes a ride from place to place in an Autorickshaw. His name or whereabouts are not revealed, and he just travels from place to place in the auto rickshaw. The questions about his whereabouts form the rest of the story.


== Cast ==


== Production ==


=== Development ===
Thank You kicked off a series of eight films by the production firm Marikar Films that also includes the Mollywood debut of directors Gautham Vasudev Menon and Thiru. According to Ramachandran, the project took shape quickly. The script writer discussed the idea with actor Jayasurya on the set of Mumbai Police and the actor asked him to approach the director V. K. Prakash, who requested a complete script as soon as possible. Jayasurya called it "a gem of a script."


=== Casting ===
Jayasurya was cast by the script writer first. Honey Rose, who had been in the director's previous film, Trivandrum Lodge, was cast. Jayasurya was cast in the role as a modern wife. Remya Nambeesan was considered for a prominent role, but was not cast. Actor Sethu who played the role of police officer Bhaskar in the Tamil film Mynaa was cast to play one of the lead roles in the film. There were rumours of Sunny Wayne being cast. He was at the time a rising actor, but was ultimately not cast for a role. Tini Tom was cast to play a police officer, after being part of the director V. K. Prakash's 2011 film, Beautiful. Other members of the cast that were announced included Kailash, Mukundan, Balachandran and Aishwarya Devan. The actress Aishwarya was also cast, she made her debut in Tamil Films with Yuvan. Aishwarya Devan plays a reporter in the film.


=== Filming ===
The puja of Thank You and seven other films by Marikar Films was conducted on 9 April 2013. Principal photography began on 11 April 2013 at Trivandrum in the residential area Chackai.


== References ==


== External links ==
Thank You at IMDb
MMDb

Tumhari Amrita is an epistolary play directed by Feroz Abbas Khan. Its original cast includes Shabana Azmi and Farooq Sheikh. It is an Indian context adaptation of A. R. Gurney's American play, Love Letters (1988), and the Hindi/Urdu version was created in 1992 by playwright Javed Siddiqui. After its première at Prithvi Theatre, Mumbai on 27 February 1992, it has been staged at venues across India, Europe, Middle East, US and Pakistan.
The story of unrequited love is read out through reams of love letters between Amrita Nigam and Zulfikar Haider, exchanged over 35 years, starting with Amrita's eighth birthday party in the 1940s, when she first wrote to the ten-year-old Zulfi.


== Development ==
Following productions of The Royal Hunt of the Sun (1991), All the Best, and Eva Mumbai Ma Chaal Jaiye Feroz Abbas Khan read Pulitzer Prize-nominated Love Letters, (1988) by A. R. Gurney. In  1991 Feroz met Gurney in Mumbai, and the producer started working on the play. Feroz approached playwright and screenwriter Javed Siddiqui to work on script. Siddiqui in turn also liked the play and wrote it as a new play, set in Indian context to be produced under the banner of Javed Siddiqui Productions. Shabana Azmi and Farooq Sheikh agreed to play the leads. The central character of Amrita is based on bohemian Indian painter Amrita Sher-Gil (1913–1941).


== Staging history ==
Tumhari Amrita made its début at the Jennifer Kapoor Festival held at Prithvi Theatre, Mumbai on 27 February 1992, under the direction of Feroz Abbas Khan, as tribute to Jennifer Kapoor on her birthday.
As per the direction, the actors do not memorize the script but read out the letters kept on their writing desks throughout the performance. The play lasts 1 hour and 30 minutes. Director Feroz Khan was initially apprehensive about its popularity, feeling that the work was experimental for mass audiences. Its stupendous success came as a surprise to the creative team as well. Tumhari Amrita  has since toured the world, including US, Europe and Pakistan, performing over 300 shows and acquired a cult status.
The February 2006 shows, in Karachi and Islamabad in Pakistan, were performed to raise money for earthquake victims. In a 2009 interview, Shabana Azmi said, "Amrita is the character I've enjoyed playing the most in my entire career." The play returned to Prithvi Theatre in November 2010 during the eight-day festival of 'Jana Natya Manch' (Janam), a theatre company set up by Safdar Hashmi. The play celebrated its 20-year anniversary with a full house performance at Bandra Fort in Mumbai. The last staging of this show was in the quadrangle of the historic Taj Mahal in Agra on 14 December 2013. It was the first time a performance was held in the quadrangle of the historic monument to love. The performance received a warm standing ovation.


== Reception ==
After its 2006 performance in Pakistan, leading daily Dawn, ran a headline, "Shabana, Farooque Enthral Audience",  while another Daily Times feature on the play said "From India with Love".


== Legacy ==
After the success of Tumhari Amrita, the sequel Aapki Soniya, also written by Javed Siddiqui, had its premiere at Prithvi Theatre, Juhu, on September 28, 2004. It was directed by Salim Arif and lead roles performed by Sonali Bendre and Farooq Sheikh.
The play was also adapted in Marathi language, in 1998, as Prempatra (Love Letter) and was directed by Waman Kendre with Neena Kulkarni playing the lead role.


== References ==


== External links ==
Tumhari Amrita[link removed] at Feroz Abbas Khan website
"Shreya Ray, A love letter to Indian theatre: 'Tumhari Amrita' completes 20 years." Mint newspaper. March 2, 2012.

This is an incomplete list of burials at Cebeci Asri Cemetery by occupation.


== A ==


== B ==


== C ==


== D ==


== E ==


== F ==


== G ==


== H ==


== İ ==


== K ==


== L ==


== M ==


== N ==


== O ==


== Ö ==


== R ==


== S ==


== Ş ==


== T ==


== U ==


== Ü ==


== V ==


== Y ==


== Z ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Ankara Büyükşehir Belediyesi Mezarlık Bilgi Sistemi

This is a list of the mammal species recorded in Nicaragua. Of the mammal species in Nicaragua, two are endangered, four are vulnerable, and four are near threatened. One species has been classified as extinct.
The following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the International Union for Conservation of Nature:

Some species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of near threatened and least concern categories:


== Subclass: Theria ==


=== Infraclass: Metatheria ===


==== Order: Didelphimorphia (common opossums) ====

Didelphimorphia is the order of common opossums of the Western Hemisphere. Opossums probably diverged from the basic South American marsupials in the late Cretaceous or early Paleocene. They are small to medium-sized marsupials, about the size of a large house cat, with a long snout and prehensile tail.

Family: Didelphidae (American opossums)
Subfamily: Caluromyinae
Genus: Caluromys
Derby's woolly opossum, Caluromys derbianus VU
Subfamily: Didelphinae
Genus: Chironectes
Water opossum, Chironectes minimus LR/nt
Genus: Didelphis
Common opossum, Didelphis marsupialis LR/lc
Virginia opossum, Didelphis virginiana LR/lc
Genus: Marmosa
Alston's mouse opossum, Marmosa alstoni LR/nt
Mexican mouse opossum, Marmosa mexicana LR/lc
Genus: Metachirus
Brown four-eyed opossum, Metachirus nudicaudatus LR/lc
Genus: Philander
Gray four-eyed opossum, Philander opossum LR/lc


=== Infraclass: Eutheria ===


==== Order: Sirenia (manatees and dugongs) ====

Sirenia is an order of fully aquatic, herbivorous mammals that inhabit rivers, estuaries, coastal marine waters, swamps, and marine wetlands. All four species are endangered.

Family: Trichechidae
Genus: Trichechus
West Indian manatee, T. manatus VU


==== Order: Cingulata (armadillos) ====

The armadillos are small mammals with a bony armored shell. They are native to the Americas. There are around 20 extant species.

Family: Dasypodidae (armadillos)
Subfamily: Dasypodinae
Genus: Dasypus
Nine-banded armadillo, Dasypus novemcinctus LC
Subfamily: Tolypeutinae
Genus: Cabassous
Northern naked-tailed armadillo, Cabassous centralis DD


==== Order: Pilosa (anteaters, sloths and tamanduas) ====
The order Pilosa is extant only in the Americas and includes the anteaters, sloths, and tamanduas.

Suborder: Folivora
Family: Bradypodidae (three-toed sloths)
Genus: Bradypus
Brown-throated three-toed sloth, Bradypus variegatus LC
Family: Choloepodidae (two-toed sloths)
Genus: Choloepus
Hoffmann's two-toed sloth, Choloepus hoffmanni LC
Suborder: Vermilingua
Family: Cyclopedidae
Genus: Cyclopes
Silky anteater, C. didactylus LC
Central American silky anteater, C. dorsalis NE
Family: Myrmecophagidae (American anteaters)
Genus: Myrmecophaga
Giant anteater, Myrmecophaga tridactyla VU
Genus: Tamandua
Northern tamandua, Tamandua mexicana LC


==== Order: Primates ====

The order Primates contains humans and their closest relatives: lemurs, lorisoids, tarsiers, monkeys, and apes.

Suborder: Haplorhini
Infraorder: Simiiformes
Parvorder: Platyrrhini (New World monkeys)
Family: Cebidae
Subfamily: Cebinae
Genus: Cebus
Panamanian white-faced capuchin, Cebus capucinus LC
Family: Atelidae
Subfamily: Alouattinae
Genus: Alouatta
Mantled howler, Alouatta palliata LC
Subfamily: Atelinae
Genus: Ateles
Geoffroy's spider monkey, Ateles geoffroyi LC


==== Order: Rodentia (rodents) ====
Rodents make up the largest order of mammals, with over 40% of mammalian species. They have two incisors in the upper and lower jaw which grow continually and must be kept short by gnawing. Most rodents are small though the capybara can weigh up to 45 kg (99 lb).

Suborder: Hystricognathi
Family: Erethizontidae (New World porcupines)
Subfamily: Erethizontinae
Genus: Coendou
Mexican hairy dwarf porcupine, Coendou mexicanus LR/lc
Family: Dasyproctidae (agoutis and pacas)
Genus: Dasyprocta
Central American agouti, Dasyprocta punctata LR/lc
Family: Cuniculidae
Genus: Cuniculus
Lowland paca, Cuniculus paca LC
Family: Echimyidae
Subfamily: Eumysopinae
Genus: Hoplomys
Armored rat, Hoplomys gymnurus LR/lc
Genus: Proechimys
Tome's spiny-rat, Proechimys semispinosus LR/lc
Suborder: Sciurognathi
Family: Sciuridae (squirrels)
Subfamily: Sciurinae
Tribe: Sciurini
Genus: Microsciurus
Central American dwarf squirrel, Microsciurus alfari LR/lc
Genus: Sciurus
Deppe's squirrel, Sciurus deppei LR/lc
Richmond's squirrel, Sciurus richmondi LR/nt
Variegated squirrel, Sciurus variegatoides LR/lc
Family: Geomyidae
Genus: Orthogeomys
Nicaraguan pocket gopher, Orthogeomys matagalpae LR/lc
Family: Heteromyidae
Subfamily: Heteromyinae
Genus: Heteromys
Desmarest's spiny pocket mouse, Heteromys desmarestianus LR/lc
Salvin's spiny pocket mouse, Heteromys salvini LR/lc
Family: Cricetidae
Subfamily: Tylomyinae
Genus: Nyctomys
Sumichrast's vesper rat, Nyctomys sumichrasti LR/lc
Genus: Ototylomys
Big-eared climbing rat, Ototylomys phyllotis LR/lc
Genus: Tylomys
Peters's climbing rat, Tylomys nudicaudus LR/lc
Subfamily: Neotominae
Genus: Baiomys
Southern pygmy mouse, Baiomys musculus LR/lc
Genus: Neotoma
Nicaraguan woodrat, Neotoma chrysomelas LR/lc
Genus: Peromyscus
Naked-eared deer mouse, Peromyscus gymnotis LR/lc
Mexican deer mouse, Peromyscus mexicanus LR/lc
Stirton's deer mouse, Peromyscus stirtoni LR/lc
Genus: Reithrodontomys
Short-nosed harvest mouse, Reithrodontomys brevirostris LR/lc
Fulvous harvest mouse, Reithrodontomys fulvescens LR/lc
Slender harvest mouse, Reithrodontomys gracilis LR/lc
Mexican harvest mouse, Reithrodontomys mexicanus LR/lc
Nicaraguan harvest mouse, Reithrodontomys paradoxus LR/nt
Sumichrast's harvest mouse, Reithrodontomys sumichrasti LR/lc
Genus: Scotinomys
Alston's brown mouse, Scotinomys teguina LR/lc
Subfamily: Sigmodontinae
Genus: Melanomys
Dusky rice rat, Melanomys caliginosus LR/lc
Genus: Oligoryzomys
Fulvous pygmy rice rat, Oligoryzomys fulvescens LR/lc
Genus: Oryzomys
Alfaro's rice rat, Oryzomys alfaroi LR/lc
Bolivar rice rat, Oryzomys bolivaris LR/lc
Coues' rice rat, Oryzomys couesi LR/lc
Nicaraguan rice rat, Oryzomys dimidiatus LR/nt
Long-nosed rice rat, Oryzomys rostratus LR/lc
Cloud forest rice rat, Oryzomys saturatior LR/lc
Genus: Sigmodon
Southern cotton rat, Sigmodon hirsutus LC
Genus: Sigmodontomys
Alfaro's rice water rat, Sigmodontomys alfari LR/lc


==== Order: Lagomorpha (lagomorphs) ====
The lagomorphs comprise two families, Leporidae (hares and rabbits), and Ochotonidae (pikas). Though they can resemble rodents, and were classified as a superfamily in that order until the early 20th century, they have since been considered a separate order. They differ from rodents in a number of physical characteristics, such as having four incisors in the upper jaw rather than two.

Family: Leporidae (rabbits, hares)
Genus: Sylvilagus
Eastern cottontail, Sylvilagus floridanus LR/lc
Central American tapetí, Sylvilagus gabbi LC


==== Order: Eulipotyphla (shrews, hedgehogs, moles, and solenodons) ====
Eulipotyphlans are insectivorous mammals. Shrews and solenodons closely resemble mice, hedgehogs carry spines, while moles are stout-bodied burrowers.

Family: Soricidae (shrews)
Subfamily: Soricinae
Tribe: Blarinini
Genus: Cryptotis
Honduran small-eared shrew, Cryptotis hondurensis VU
North American least shrew, Cryptotis parva LR/lc


==== Order: Chiroptera (bats) ====

The bats' most distinguishing feature is that their forelimbs are developed as wings, making them the only mammals capable of flight. Bat species account for about 20% of all mammals.

Family: Noctilionidae
Genus: Noctilio
Lesser bulldog bat, Noctilio albiventris LR/lc
Greater bulldog bat, Noctilio leporinus LR/lc
Family: Vespertilionidae
Subfamily: Myotinae
Genus: Myotis
Silver-tipped myotis, Myotis albescens LR/lc
Elegant myotis, Myotis elegans LR/nt
Hairy-legged myotis, Myotis keaysi LR/lc
Black myotis, Myotis nigricans LR/lc
Riparian myotis, Myotis riparius LR/lc
Subfamily: Vespertilioninae
Genus: Eptesicus
Brazilian brown bat, Eptesicus brasiliensis LR/lc
Argentine brown bat, Eptesicus furinalis LR/lc
Big brown bat, Eptesicus fuscus LR/lc
Genus: Lasiurus
Desert red bat, Lasiurus blossevillii LR/lc
Southern yellow bat, Lasiurus ega LR/lc
Genus: Rhogeessa
Black-winged little yellow bat, Rhogeessa tumida LR/lc
Family: Molossidae
Genus: Eumops
Black bonneted bat, Eumops auripendulus LR/lc
Dwarf bonneted bat, Eumops bonariensis LR/lc
Wagner's bonneted bat, Eumops glaucinus LR/lc
Underwood's bonneted bat, Eumops underwoodi LR/nt
Genus: Molossus
Aztec mastiff bat, Molossus aztecus LR/nt
Bonda mastiff bat, Molossus bondae LR/lc
Velvety free-tailed bat, Molossus molossus LR/lc
Miller's mastiff bat, Molossus pretiosus LR/lc
Sinaloan mastiff bat, Molossus sinaloae LR/lc
Genus: Promops
Big crested mastiff bat, Promops centralis LR/lc
Genus: Tadarida
Mexican free-tailed bat, Tadarida brasiliensis LR/nt
Family: Emballonuridae
Genus: Balantiopteryx
Gray sac-winged bat, Balantiopteryx plicata LR/lc
Genus: Cormura
Wagner's sac-winged bat, Cormura brevirostris LR/lc
Genus: Cyttarops
Short-eared bat, Cyttarops alecto LR/nt
Genus: Diclidurus
Northern ghost bat, Diclidurus albus LR/lc
Genus: Peropteryx
Greater dog-like bat, Peropteryx kappleri LR/lc
Lesser doglike bat, Peropteryx macrotis LR/lc
Genus: Rhynchonycteris
Proboscis bat, Rhynchonycteris naso LR/lc
Genus: Saccopteryx
Greater sac-winged bat, Saccopteryx bilineata LR/lc
Lesser sac-winged bat, Saccopteryx leptura LR/lc
Family: Mormoopidae
Genus: Mormoops
Ghost-faced bat, Mormoops megalophylla LR/lc
Genus: Pteronotus
Naked-backed bat, Pteronotus davyi LR/lc
Big naked-backed bat, Pteronotus gymnonotus LR/lc
Parnell's mustached bat, Pteronotus parnellii LR/lc
Wagner's mustached bat, Pteronotus personatus LR/lc
Family: Phyllostomidae
Subfamily: Phyllostominae
Genus: Chrotopterus
Big-eared woolly bat, Chrotopterus auritus LR/lc
Genus: Glyphonycteris
Tricolored big-eared bat, Glyphonycteris sylvestris LR/nt
Genus: Lampronycteris
Yellow-throated big-eared bat, Lampronycteris brachyotis LR/lc
Genus: Lophostoma
Pygmy round-eared bat, Lophostoma brasiliense LR/lc
White-throated round-eared bat, Lophostoma silvicolum LR/lc
Genus: Macrophyllum
Long-legged bat, Macrophyllum macrophyllum LR/lc
Genus: Micronycteris
Hairy big-eared bat, Micronycteris hirsuta LR/lc
White-bellied big-eared bat, Micronycteris minuta LR/lc
Schmidts's big-eared bat, Micronycteris schmidtorum LR/lc
Genus: Mimon
Striped hairy-nosed bat, Mimon crenulatum LR/lc
Genus: Phyllostomus
Pale spear-nosed bat, Phyllostomus discolor LR/lc
Greater spear-nosed bat, Phyllostomus hastatus LR/lc
Genus: Tonatia
Stripe-headed round-eared bat, Tonatia saurophila LR/lc
Genus: Trachops
Fringe-lipped bat, Trachops cirrhosus LR/lc
Genus: Trinycteris
Niceforo's big-eared bat, Trinycteris nicefori LR/lc
Genus: Vampyrum
Spectral bat, Vampyrum spectrum LR/nt
Subfamily: Lonchophyllinae
Genus: Lonchophylla
Orange nectar bat, Lonchophylla robusta LR/lc
Subfamily: Glossophaginae
Genus: Anoura
Geoffroy's tailless bat, Anoura geoffroyi LR/lc
Genus: Choeroniscus
Godman's long-tailed bat, Choeroniscus godmani LR/nt
Genus: Glossophaga
Commissaris's long-tongued bat, Glossophaga commissarisi LR/lc
Gray long-tongued bat, Glossophaga leachii LR/lc
Pallas's long-tongued bat, Glossophaga soricina LR/lc
Genus: Hylonycteris
Underwood's long-tongued bat, Hylonycteris underwoodi LR/nt
Genus: Lichonycteris
Dark long-tongued bat, Lichonycteris obscura LR/lc
Subfamily: Carolliinae
Genus: Carollia
Silky short-tailed bat, Carollia brevicauda LR/lc
Chestnut short-tailed bat, Carollia castanea LR/lc
Seba's short-tailed bat, Carollia perspicillata LR/lc
Gray short-tailed bat, Carollia subrufa LR/lc
Subfamily: Stenodermatinae
Genus: Artibeus
Honduran fruit-eating bat, Artibeus inopinatus VU
Artibeus intermedius LR/lc
Jamaican fruit bat, Artibeus jamaicensis LR/lc
Great fruit-eating bat, Artibeus lituratus LR/lc
Pygmy fruit-eating bat, Artibeus phaeotis LR/lc
Toltec fruit-eating bat, Artibeus toltecus LR/lc
Genus: Centurio
Wrinkle-faced bat, Centurio senex LR/lc
Genus: Chiroderma
Hairy big-eyed bat, Chiroderma villosum LR/lc
Genus: Ectophylla
Honduran white bat, Ectophylla alba LR/nt
Genus: Mesophylla
MacConnell's bat, Mesophylla macconnelli LR/lc
Genus: Sturnira
Little yellow-shouldered bat, Sturnira lilium LR/lc
Highland yellow-shouldered bat, Sturnira ludovici LR/lc
Genus: Uroderma
Tent-making bat, Uroderma bilobatum LR/lc
Brown tent-making bat, Uroderma magnirostrum LR/lc
Genus: Vampyressa
Striped yellow-eared bat, Vampyressa nymphaea LR/lc
Southern little yellow-eared bat, Vampyressa pusilla LR/lc
Genus: Vampyrodes
Great stripe-faced bat, Vampyrodes caraccioli LR/lc
Genus: Platyrrhinus
Heller's broad-nosed bat, Platyrrhinus helleri LR/lc
Subfamily: Desmodontinae
Genus: Desmodus
Common vampire bat, Desmodus rotundus LR/lc
Genus: Diaemus
White-winged vampire bat, Diaemus youngi LR/lc
Genus: Diphylla
Hairy-legged vampire bat, Diphylla ecaudata LR/nt
Family: Thyropteridae
Genus: Thyroptera
Peters's disk-winged bat, Thyroptera discifera LR/lc
Spix's disk-winged bat, Thyroptera tricolor LR/lc


==== Order: Cetacea (whales) ====

The order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.

Suborder: Mysticeti
Family: Balaenopteridae (baleen whales)
Genus: Balaenoptera
Common minke whale, Balaenoptera acutorostrata
Sei whale, Balaenoptera borealis
Bryde's whale, Balaenoptera brydei
Blue whale, Balaenoptera musculus
Genus: Megaptera
Humpback whale, Megaptera novaeangliae
Suborder: Odontoceti
Superfamily: Platanistoidea
Family: Delphinidae (marine dolphins)
Genus: Delphinus
Short-beaked common dolphin, Delphinus delphis DD
Genus: Feresa
Pygmy killer whale, Feresa attenuata DD
Genus: Globicephala
Short-finned pilot whale, Globicephala macrorhyncus DD
Genus: Lagenodelphis
Fraser's dolphin, Lagenodelphis hosei DD
Genus: Grampus
Risso's dolphin, Grampus griseus DD
Genus: Orcinus
Killer whale, Orcinus orca DD
Genus: Peponocephala
Melon-headed whale, Peponocephala electra DD
Genus: Pseudorca
False killer whale, Pseudorca crassidens DD
Genus: Sotalia
Guiana dolphin, Sotalia guianensis DD
Genus: Stenella
Pantropical spotted dolphin, Stenella attenuata DD
Clymene dolphin, Stenella clymene DD
Striped dolphin, Stenella coeruleoalba DD
Atlantic spotted dolphin, Stenella frontalis DD
Spinner dolphin, Stenella longirostris DD
Genus: Steno
Rough-toothed dolphin, Steno bredanensis DD
Genus: Tursiops
Common bottlenose dolphin, Tursiops truncatus
Family: Physeteridae (sperm whales)
Genus: Physeter
Sperm whale, Physeter catodon DD
Family: Kogiidae (dwarf sperm whales)
Genus: Kogia
Pygmy sperm whale, Kogia breviceps DD
Dwarf sperm whale, Kogia sima DD
Superfamily Ziphioidea
Family: Ziphidae (beaked whales)
Genus: Mesoplodon
Gervais' beaked whale, Mesoplodon europaeus DD
Ginkgo-toothed beaked whale, Mesoplodon ginkgodens DD
Pygmy beaked whale, Mesoplodon peruvianus DD
Genus: Ziphius
Cuvier's beaked whale, Ziphius cavirostris DD


==== Order: Carnivora (carnivorans) ====

There are over 260 species of carnivorans, the majority of which primarily eat meat. They have a characteristic skull shape and dentition.

Suborder: Feliformia
Family: Felidae (cats)
Subfamily: Felinae
Genus: Herpailurus
Jaguarundi, Herpailurus yagouaroundi LC
Genus: Leopardus
Ocelot, Leopardus pardalis LC
Oncilla, Leopardus tigrinus NT
Margay, Leopardus wiedii LC
Genus: Puma
Cougar, Puma concolor NT
Subfamily: Pantherinae
Genus: Panthera
Jaguar, Panthera onca NT
Suborder: Caniformia
Family: Canidae (dogs, foxes)
Genus: Canis
Coyote, Canis latrans LC
Genus: Urocyon
Gray fox, Urocyon cinereoargenteus LC
Family: Procyonidae (raccoons)
Genus: Bassaricyon
Northern olingo, Bassaricyon gabbii LR/nt
Genus: Bassariscus
Cacomistle, Bassariscus sumichrasti LR/nt
Genus: Nasua
White-nosed coati, Nasua narica LR/lc
Genus: Potos
Kinkajou, Potos flavus LR/lc
Genus: Procyon
Common raccoon, Procyon lotor LR/lc
Family: Mustelidae (mustelids)
Genus: Eira
Tayra, Eira barbara LR/lc
Genus: Galictis
Greater grison, Galictis vittata LR/lc
Genus: Lontra
Neotropical river otter, Lontra longicaudis NT
Genus: Neogale
Long-tailed weasel, Neogale frenata LR/lc
Family: Mephitidae
Genus: Conepatus
American hog-nosed skunk, Conepatus leuconotus LR/lc
Striped hog-nosed skunk, Conepatus semistriatus LR/lc
Genus: Mephitis
Hooded skunk, Mephitis macroura LR/lc
Genus: Spilogale
Eastern spotted skunk, Spilogale putorius LR/lc
Suborder: Pinnipedia
Family: Phocidae (earless seals)
Genus: Neomonachus
Caribbean monk seal, Neomonachus tropicalis EX


==== Order: Perissodactyla (odd-toed ungulates) ====

The odd-toed ungulates are browsing and grazing mammals. They are usually large to very large, and have relatively simple stomachs and a large middle toe.

Family: Tapiridae (tapirs)
Genus: Tapirus
Baird's tapir, Tapirus bairdii EN


==== Order: Artiodactyla (even-toed ungulates) ====

The even-toed ungulates are ungulates whose weight is borne about equally by the third and fourth toes, rather than mostly or entirely by the third as in perissodactyls. There are about 220 artiodactyl species, including many that are of great economic importance to humans.

Family: Tayassuidae (peccaries)
Genus: Dicotyles
Collared peccary, D. tajacu LC
Genus: Tayassu
White-lipped peccary, Tayassu pecari NT
Family: Cervidae (deer)
Subfamily: Capreolinae
Genus: Mazama
Central American red brocket, Mazama temama DD
Genus: Odocoileus
White-tailed deer, Odocoileus virginianus LR/lc


== See also ==
Fauna of Nicaragua
List of chordate orders
Lists of mammals by region
List of prehistoric mammals
Mammal classification
List of mammals described in the 2000s


== Notes ==


== References ==
"The IUCN Red List of Threatened Species: Mammals of Nicaragua". IUCN. 2001. Retrieved 22 May 2007. 
"Mammal Species of the World". Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History. 2005. Archived from the original on 27 April 2007. Retrieved 22 May 2007.
"Animal Diversity Web". University of Michigan Museum of Zoology. 1995–2006. Retrieved 22 May 2007.

Sigvard Viggo "Sigge" Eklund (born 21 April 1974) is a Swedish podcaster, novelist, TV producer and movie director. His books have been sold in 16 countries, and his podcast "Alex & Sigge's podcast" is the biggest in Sweden with over 250,000 listeners a week. He lives in New York City with his wife, two sons, and daughter.
Sigge Eklund was born in Stockholm, as the son of economist Klas Eklund and the brother of author, real estate broker Fredrik Eklund, star of Bravo (American TV network) TV show Million Dollar Listing New York. Sigge Eklund is also a recurring guest on Million Dollar Listing New York.
He is currently directing his first feature length movie, for Netflix, A Part of You (2024).
He has published five novels at Albert Bonniers förlag. His best-known novel is Det är 1988 och har precis börjat snöa ("It's 1988 and it just began snowing"), an autobiographical story about growing up as the son of a famous father.
His latest novel Into the labyrinth has been sold in 16 countries, including France, Germany, China, Brazil, and Japan.
He is the host of the SiriusXM radio show "Buying and Selling" together with his brother Fredrik Eklund.
Apart from the novels, he has published two collections of essays ("Time" and "Room", with Alex Schulman), and one book of prose poetry ("Life's Small Pleasures").
In 2004, he wrote the short film Celebrating Lennart (SVT/SFi) and was a co-writer of the Swedish TV show Hombres (Kanal5). In 2008 he created and hosted the talk show Frånvarande (TV8), in 2010 he produced the reality show Lite sällskap (Kanal 5), and in 2011 he produced the Swedish airing of The Academy Awards.
In 2012 he started the Swedish language podcast Alex & Sigges podcast with Alex Schulman. It has been the biggest podcast in Sweden since and has won several awards ("Best Podcast of Sweden" 2012-2016).
In 2014, he won the Swedish Radio Prize for "Best newcomer".
2018 he moved to the U.S. and has since lived in New York and Los Angeles. On January 9, 2025, Eklund reported that his and the family's home in Pacific Palisades had been destroyed by the Palisades Fire.


== Books ==
Synantrop : en kärlekshistoria. Stockholm: Albert Bonniers Förlag, 1999.
Den sista myten. Stockholm: Albert Bonniers Förlag, 2002.
Det är 1988 och har precis börjat snöa. Stockholm: Albert Bonniers Förlag, 2005.
Varulvsvalsen. Stockholm: Albert Bonniers Förlag, 2007.
In i labyrinten. Stockholm: Albert Bonniers Förlag, 2014.
Tid. Stockholm: Bookmark Förlag, 2015.
Rum. Stockholm: Bookmark Förlag, 2017.
Livets små njutningar. Stockholm: Brombergs Förlag, 2020.
Gruppen. Stockholm: Albert Bonniers Förlag, 2023.


== Film and television ==
Emmas analys Creator and producer. Kanal 5, 1996.
Celebrating Lennart Screenwriter. SVT/SFi, 2004.
Hombres Screenwriter. Kanal 5, 2005.
Frånvarande Creator and host. TV8, 2008.
Lite sällskap Producer. Kanal 5, 2010.
Nittileaks Writer. Kanal 5, 2011.
The Academy Awards Producer. Kanal 9, 2011.
Alla är fotografer Format and director. SVT, 2013.
A Part of You Director. Netflix/SF, 2024.


== References ==

Bravo TV's brothers Fredrik and Sigge Eklund get their own radio show
Sigge Eklund named the most powerful blogger in Sweden


== External links ==

Official website

Gražina Degutytė-Švažienė  (born 7 June 1938 in Tauragė) is a Lithuanian ceramic artist.


== Biography ==
Gražina Degutytė-Švažienė graduated from the Lithuanian Institute of Fine Arts. Since 1962, she has worked and taught at the Lithuanian Institute of Art (since 1990 at the Vilnius Academy of Fine Arts).
She has curated exhibits.


== Awards ==
1982 Lithuanian Art Fund Prize, Lithuanian Ministry of Culture 


== Works ==
pano "Kalnai", 1972 m., Dombajus, Karačiajų Čerkesija
pano "Uždanga" ir plokštės "Atspindžiai" 1980 m., Ponizovka, Krymas
plokštės "Pajūrio architektūra" ir šviestuvai "Burės", "Slibinas" 1992 m., poilsio namai "Auksinės kopos", Nida
plokštės "Augalai" 1996 m., Lietuvos telekomas, Vilnius 


== See also ==
List of Lithuanian painters


== References ==


== External links ==
"Gražina Degutytė-Švažienė", Lithuanian Wikipedia

Milton Cemetery is a historic cemetery at 211 Centre Street in Milton, Massachusetts.  Established in 1672, it is the town's only municipal burying ground.  There are three distinct sections to its 102-acre (41 ha) grounds: the original burying ground, a tract of 3 acres (1.2 ha) which was in use between 1672 and 1854, a "new" section, laid out in 1854 in the rural cemetery style which was fashionable in the 19th century, and a "modern" section, established in 1945.
It was founded in 1672 and added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2004. Among those interred in the cemetery are:

Dennis Miller Bunker, American Impressionist Painter
James A. Burke, United States Representative from Massachusetts
Elbie Fletcher, Major League Baseball player
Edward A. Gisburne, United States Navy sailor and Medal of Honor recipient
Nathaniel Carl Goodwin, actor and vaudevillian
Howard Deering Johnson, businessman and founder of the Howard Johnson's restaurant and hotel chain
Ann Terry Greene Phillips, abolitionist and wife of Wendell Phillips
Wendell Phillips, abolitionist, advocate for Native Americans, and orator
Steve Trapilo, player in the National Football League
Paul H. Weinert, United States Army soldier and Medal of Honor recipient


== See also ==
National Register of Historic Places listings in Milton, Massachusetts


== References ==


== External links ==

Milton Cemetery at Find a Grave 
Visit Milton Cemetery

Auditorio may refer to:

Auditorio light rail station, in Guadalajara, Jalisco
Auditorio metro station, in Mexico City
Auditorio (Mexico City Metrobús)


== See also ==
Auditorio Nacional (disambiguation)
All pages with titles containing auditorio

The 2000 Eastern Michigan Eagles football team represented Eastern Michigan University in the 2000 NCAA Division I-A football season. In their first season under head coach Jeff Woodruff, the Eagles compiled a 3–8 record (2–5 against conference opponents), finished in fifth place in the West Division of the Mid-American Conference, and were outscored by their opponents, 350 to 209. The team's statistical leaders included Walter Church with 2,326 passing yards, John White with 561 rushing yards, and Kenny Christian with 808 receiving yards. Walter Church received the team's most valuable player award.


== Schedule ==


== Roster ==


== Conference awards and leaders ==


=== Walter Church ===
238 Pass Completions (2nd)
399 Pass Attempts (2nd)
59.6 Pass Completion Percentage (3rd)
2,326 Passing Yards (4th)


=== Kenny Christian ===
78 Receptions (1st)
Second Team All-MAC Offense


=== Kevin Walter ===
5 Receiving Touchdowns (Tied 4th)
426 Total Plays (Tied 3rd)
2,236 Total Yards (5th)


=== Toller Starnes ===
11 Field Goals Made (Tied 4th)
78.6 Field Goal Percentage (3rd)


=== Nick Avondet ===
71 Punts (3rd)
2,954 Punting Yards (2nd)
41.6 Punting Yards Per Punt (3rd)
Second Team All-MAC Defense


== References ==

Saint-Gobain (French pronunciation: [sɛ̃ ɡɔbɛ̃]) is a commune in the Aisne department in Hauts-de-France in northern France.
In 1692, a glass factory was built at the village of Saint-Gobain, giving its name to the Saint-Gobain company.


== Toponymy ==
The settlement, attested as Sanctus Gobanus in 1131, is named after the Irish monk Saint Gobain. Gobanus is a Latinized form of the Celtic personal name Gobanos, meaning 'smith'.


== Population ==


== See also ==
Communes of the Aisne department


== References ==


=== Bibliography ===
Delamarre, Xavier (2003). Dictionnaire de la langue gauloise: Une approche linguistique du vieux-celtique continental. Errance. ISBN 9782877723695.

Kpasam (Kpasham; Nyesam) is an Adamawa language of Demsa LGA, Adamawa State, Nigeria.
The speakers refer to their language as Nyesam [ɲé sàm], their ethnic group as Isam [ísàm], and their territory as Asam [ásàm]. The Nyesam language is spoken in the villages of Kpasham, Dakli, and Dem.


== Further reading ==
Blench, Roger. 2009. The Maya (Yendang) languages.
Villa, Eveling. 2019. Selected Nyesam documentation (with audio and video) Archived 2019-11-04 at the Wayback Machine. Pangloss Collection: An archive for endangered languages.
Yoder, Zachariah. 2009. Maya wordlists Kpasham (Adamawa), MPEG/X-WAV. PARADISEC. doi:10.4225/72/57029413DB1F7


== References ==

Bentley House, also known as the Museum of the Ozarks, is a historic home located at Springfield, Greene County, Missouri. It was built in 1892, and is a two-story, Queen Anne style brick and frame dwelling.


== Architecture ==
As with most Queen Anne homes, the house was designed with detailed exterior features, a prominent front tower, intricate trim and dentils, and a complex roof of gables and hips projecting at right angles and accented by several dormers. The semi-detached tower reaches the highest point with a conical roof and spire. Multiple porches, and a porte cochere, feature decorative spindles.
It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.


== History ==
J.F.G. Bently, president of the Bank of Springfield, constructed a home proposed to be "one of the grandest homes in all of Springfield."
It was a single family home and remained in the Bently family until 1964 when it was sold to Drury College in 1965. In 1977, Springfield established a local history museum called Museum of the Ozarks.
In 1993 the museum would seek a larger space and sold the home to a private resident. Because Drury College is a private school, the home has technically maintained private ownership throughout its life.


== References ==

Sky Harbor Airport & Seaplane Base or Sky Harbor Airport (ICAO: KDYT, FAA LID: DYT) is a public airport in Duluth, Minnesota, United States. It is located near the Wisconsin border, between Superior Bay and Lake Superior. The airport is six nautical miles (11 km) southeast of the central business district of Duluth, Minnesota, on Minnesota Point within its city limits.
The airport is owned by the Duluth Airport Authority and has been operating for over 50 years. It is one of only four airports in Minnesota offering both a hard surface runway for airplanes and water landing areas for seaplanes.
Although most U.S. airports use the same three-letter location identifier for the FAA and IATA, Sky Harbor Airport is assigned DYT by the FAA but has no designation from the IATA.


== Facilities and aircraft ==
Sky Harbor Airport covers an area of 70 acres (28 ha) which contains one asphalt paved runway designated 14/32 which measures 2,600 by 75 feet (793 x 23 m). It also has two seaplane landing areas: 9W/27W is 5,000 by 1,500 feet (1,524 x 457 m) and 13W/31W is 10,000 by 2,000 feet (3,048 x 610 m).
Protecting old-growth pine trees on the south east end of the runway prompted a $13.2 million project which realigned the runway by 5 degrees and changed the runway length to 2600 feet with no displaced thresholds. The airport reopened with its newly resurfaced runway on June 12, 2020. The runway realignment created seven acres of new land for the southeast end of the runway along the edge of Park Point, in order to angle the runway into the bay rather than toward the forest. The old Runway 32 had a displaced threshold 658 ft past the beginning of the hard surface, leaving 2,392 ft for landing.
For the 12-month period ending April 30, 2018, the airport had 13,900 aircraft operations, an average of 38 per day: 94% general aviation and 6% air taxi. In 2018, there were 24 aircraft based at this airport: 21 single-engine and 3 multi-engine.


== History ==
Sky Harbor Airport was founded in 1946 by Jack Brockway and William Neukom.


== See also ==
List of airports in Minnesota


== References ==


== External links ==
Aerial image as of June 1997 from USGS The National Map
Resources for this airport:
FAA airport information for DYT
AirNav airport information for KDYT
FlightAware airport information and live flight tracker
NOAA/NWS weather observations: current, past three days
SkyVector aeronautical chart, Terminal Procedures

Preah Chinavong (Khmer: រឿងព្រះជិនវង្ស) is an apocryphal jataka tale of the Khmer sāstrā lbaeng tradition about a Khmer prince who falls into disgrace and, after a series of ordeals, regains his status.


== Plot ==
King Sovannavong and Queen Chin Bopha had a son named prince Chinavong. The king's three concubines also had three respective sons from him but felt they received less respect. After they plotted against him, killing their own children and accusing Chinavong of the crime, the latter was thrown into the sea by the king, only to be rescued by the Naga king.
Chinavong attracted more jealousy in the naga Kingdom and was sent out by the Naga king to find the hermit Ta Eisey from which he was to find magic powers to be used in battle. On the way, he is kidnapped by a giant woman, from whose captivity he escapes only to be chased after by her as well who finds him and beats him to death. Left for dead, Chinavong is brought back to life by Ta Eisey, who also teaches how to use the bow and arrow. After which, he returns to his father's kingdom and confronts in half-brothers.
As he goes with his mother to respect their ancestors' stupa, Chinavong seems the image of woman with whom he falls madly in love with and sets out too. In a tragic qui pro quo, she appears to have been married to another prince in the meantime. His romantic enemy, Tuos-sakann, who was mistakenly married to the princess' sister, nevertheless challenges him and is defeated by his magic powers, and therefore the father of those two princesses betrothes both to Chinavong. The latter flies off on his mechanical Hamsa with only one of them, Botum Sorya. Their engine brakes down in mid-flight throwing the pair into the ocean, where they are separated again.
Washed off to the share by the current, his magic powers and sword are stolen by the monkey Kamhaul Peano who is in turned killed by a giant called Chettra. Chinavong goes to appeal for his powers and sword to be returned to him, and the giant king Chettra goes beyond by betrothing him to his daughter. Meanwhile, Botum Sorya is saved by a crocodile who brings her to live surrounded by angels, until she eventually also becomes some sort of guardian angel or mrenh kongveal.
When the monkey king Kamhaul Peano returns at night to tell him about the whereabouts of his first love, Chinavong escapes at night, only to be chased after by his new wife who sees him gone out of bed in the morning. The father-in-law Chettra also follows suit only to bump into the first father-in-law which results in an epic confrontation over their common son-in-law. The two sisters of his fist marriage and his wife from his second marriage meet in their quest, and they finally find Chinavong, with the help of a giant who defeats the monkey king Kamhaul Peano who had been helping Chinavong get away.
All three wives return to the first kingdom where they all bear a son from Chinavong who after all, feels nostalgia for both the Naga kingdom and the angels who watched over Botum Sorya. He ends up marrying his descendance with a Naga princess and another with a kinnara angel, in a sort of alliance, between the human that he is, and the gods which he tried all his life to frequent.


== Origin ==


=== An oral tradition of Khmer folklore ===
Like the Reamker, the story of Preah Chinavong involves battles between kingly heroes of the settled land and yakkha kings of the forest. Narrating these adventures is "very complex and long". As many other apocryphal Jataka tales or Paññāsa Jātaka, it was developed as a patchwork of a network of local tales and legends that went through the process of palimpsest and palinode, thus resulting in certain inconsistencies and incongruities in the narrative.
The narrative echoes many other Khmer folk legends with which is its related such as the marriage of human warriors and naga princesses in the foundational legend of Preah Thong and Neang Neak.


=== A pictural heritage now vanished ===
The sala at Wat Kieng Svay Krom, in Kandal Province, was decorated with tableaux covering the entire story of Preah Chinavong until they disappeared some twenty years ago. These paintings are so dominant in the Mekong valley that one may wonder if these Khmer narratives did not supersede the Reamker at one point. The only painting that survives is one in which Preah Chinavong is depicted riding a reacheasei, the legendary royal monture which cross the lion, the horse and the tiger.


== Dance ==
Preah Chinavong is a classic of Khmer court dance having many elements in common with the dances of Preah Sorvong. It is particularly famous for its courteous love dance between Preah Chinavong and Neang Marady.
The "unconventional" diplomat, an ornithologist and art collector Malcolm MacDonald saw its performed in Angkor Wat during the Sangkum era and gave a detailed summary of it.


== Cinema ==
Sun Tek Méng was a Cambodian producer in the Sangkum era who created a production company called Preah Chinnavong Film which filmed mostly epic peplums based on Cambodian narratives such as Preah Chinavong: Chey Soravong Leak Soravong, the melodram of Tek Pnék Neang Kor or Sokunthong, with famed actress Keo Montha.


== Music ==
Preah Chinavong was put into music and sang by Khmer vocal legend Ros Sereysothea.


== See also ==
Literature of Cambodia
Vorvong and Sorvong
Neang Kakey


== References ==

Uibin Seong (Korean: 의빈 성씨; Hanja: 宜嬪 成氏; 6 August 1753 – 4 November 1786) or Concubine Ui, of the Changnyeong Seong clan, personal name Seong Deok-im, was the beloved consort of King Jeongjo, the 22nd monarch of Joseon, and the biological mother of Crown Prince Munhyo.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
Lady Seong was born during Yeongjo's reign, into the Changnyeong Seong clan. She was the youngest child of Seong Yun-u and his second wife, a lady from the Buan Im clan. Lady Seong had seven siblings: four older brothers, two older sister, and one younger half-brother.
Seong Yun-u's first wife was from the Jangheung Ma clan. After her death, he married Lady Im, the daughter of Im Jong-ju, a minor government official. She died in 1756, three years after giving birth to Lady Seong. Seong Yun-u's third wife came from the Danyang Ji clan.
Their family was quite poor, and at the time of Lady Seong's birth, her father worked as a steward for Hong Bong-han, the maternal grandfather of King Jeongjo. He later became a military officer, but resigned in 1761, due to embezzlement accusations, and died in 1769.


=== Life in the palace ===
In 1762, at the age of 9, she became a palace lady. Thanks to her father's relationship with the Pungsan Hong clan, Lady Seong was chosen as a personal maid of King Jeongjo's mother, Lady Hyegyŏng.
In 1773, she transcribed to Korean the classic novel Gwakjangyangmunrok (comprising 10 volumes), alongside Princess Cheongyeon and Princess Cheongseon.
Some time before 1782, she received Jeongjo's favor and was promoted to sangui (상의; 尙儀), a female official of the senior fifth rank. It is recorded that she was pregnant two times between 1780 and 1782, but both pregnancies ended in miscarriage.
On 13 October 1782, Lady Seong gave birth to her first child, Yi Yang. That same day, she was appointed as a royal consort of the senior third rank (소용; 昭容; soyong). Almost three months later, in late December 1782, her son was given the title of prince royal (원자; 元子; wonja).
The following year, Lady Seong was promoted to the senior first rank (빈; 嬪; bin), and Jeongjo personally chose for her the honorific title ui (의; 宜), meaning "proper".
In the first half of 1784, Lady Seong gave birth to a daughter who died in infancy.
On 17 August 1784, Yi Yang was invested as crown prince, but he died during an epidemic on 6 June 1786.


=== Death ===
Four months after the death of her son, Lady Seong passed away during the last month of her fifth pregnancy. The unborn child died with her. King Jeongjo wrote her an eulogy, in which he described his grief and declared his love for her. It was said that Lady Seong was the only woman he loved amongst his consorts.
She was initially buried about 100 steps from her son, Crown Prince Munhyo. King Jeongjo planted 26.000 trees within the grounds, known today as Hyochang Park and situated in Yongsan District, Seoul.
In 1944, during the Japanese occupation, both tombs were relocated to the Seosamneung Cluster in Goyang, Gyeonggi Province. Crown Prince Munhyo was buried next to his uncle, Crown Prince Uiso, while Lady Seong was buried 2 km away, in the royal consorts' cemetery. Her tomb is called Uibinmyo (의빈묘; 宜嬪墓).
Lady Seong's spirit tablet was enshrined in Uibingung (의빈궁; 宜嬪宮), at Chilgung (칠궁; 七宮), the place which now houses the spirit tablets of seven royal consorts who gave birth to kings. In 1908, during Sunjong's reign, Uibingung was closed. However, the name was preserved and the annual rituals continued to be held.


== Family ==
Parents
Father: Seong Yun-u (성윤우; 成胤祐; 1709–1769)
Grandfather: Seong Su-san (성수산; 成壽山; 1668–1749)
Grandmother: Honorable Madame, of the Gimhae Kim clan (정부인 김해 김씨; 貞夫人 金海 金氏; 1674–1698), Seong Su-san's first wife
Biological grandmother: Honorable Madame, of the Changwon Hwang clan (정부인 창원 황씨; 貞夫人 昌原 黄氏; 1677–1747)
Mother: Lady, of the Jangheung Ma clan (장흥 마씨; 長興 馬氏; 1715–?); Seong Yun-u's first wife
Biological mother: Honorable and Respectful Madame, of the Buan Im clan (정경부인 부안 임씨; 貞敬夫人 扶安 林氏; 1722–1756)
Grandfather: Im Jong-ju (임종주; 林宗胄)
Stepmother: Lady, of the Danyang Ji clan (단양 지씨; 丹陽 池氏); Seong Yun-u's third wife
Sibling(s)
Elder sister: Lady, of the Changnyeong Seong clan (창녕 성씨; 昌寧 成氏)
Brother-in-law: Kang Deok-sun (강덕순; 康德淳)
Nephew: Kang Ui-sin (강의신; 康義信; 1755–?)
Elder brother: Seong Dam (성담; 成湛; 1741–1783)
Sister-in-law: Lady, of the Seongju Yi clan (성주 이씨; 星州 李氏; 1739–1770)
Sister-in-law: Lady, of the Jeonju Yi clan (전주 이씨; 全州 李氏; 1751–1799)
Nephew: Seong Guk-min (성국민; 成國民; 1766–1809)
Niece-in-law: Lady, of the Gangneung Yu clan (강릉 유씨; 江陵 劉氏; 1768–1809)
Nephew: Seong Hui-min (성희민; 成羲民; 1780–1809)
Niece-in-law: Lady, of the Jeonju Yi clan (전주 이씨; 全州 李氏)
Elder brother: Seong Hyeob (성협; 成浹; 1742–1810)
Sister-in-law: Lady, of the Gangneung Choe clan (강릉 최씨; 江陵 崔氏)
Sister-in-law: Lady, of the Danyang Mun clan (단양 문씨; 丹陽 文氏)
Nephew: Seong Do-min (성도민; 成道民)
Niece-in-law: Lady, of the Miryang Park clan (밀양 박씨; 密陽 朴氏)
Nephew: Seong Ho-min (성호민; 成皥民)
Niece-in-law: Lady, of the Cheongju Han clan (청주 한씨; 淸州 韓氏)
Elder brother: Seong Wan (성완; 成浣; 1743–1806)
Sister-in-law: Lady, of the Cheongju Han clan (청주 한씨; 淸州 韓氏; 1742–1794)
Nephew: Seong Sun-min (성순민; 成舜民; 1763–1849)
Niece-in-law: Lady, of the Danyang Woo clan (단양 우씨; 丹陽 禹氏)
Nephew: Seong Deok-min (성덕민; 成德民; 1782–1828)
Niece-in-law: Lady, of the Uiryeong Nam clan (의령 남씨; 宜寧 南氏; 1780–1812)
Niece: Lady, of the Changnyeong Seong clan (창녕 성씨; 昌寧 成氏)
Nephew-in-law: Jo Sang-ju (조상주; 趙尙周)
Elder brother: Seong Suk (성숙; 成淑)
Nephew: Seong Yeo-min (성여민; 成與民)
Elder sister: Lady, of the Changnyeong Seong clan (창녕 성씨; 昌寧 成氏)
Brother-in-law: Yun Gwang-eun (윤광은; 尹光殷; ?–1807)
Nephew: Yun Dong-cheol (윤동철; 尹東喆)
Younger brother: Seong Heub (성흡; 成洽; 1762–?)
Sister-in-law: Lady, of the Geumcheon Na clan (금천 나씨; 錦川 羅氏)
Nephew: Seong Jun-min (성준민; 成俊民)
Husband
Jeongjo of Joseon (조선 정조; 朝鮮 正祖; 28 October 1752 – 18 August 1800)
Issue
Miscarriage (1780)
Miscarriage (1781)
Yi Yang, Crown Prince Munhyo (문효세자 이양; 文孝世子 李㬀; 13 October 1782 – 6 June 1786), Jeongjo's first son
Unnamed daughter (1784), Jeongjo's first daughter
Unborn child (1786)


== In popular culture ==
Portrayed by Jung Eun-suk in the 1989 MBC TV series 500 Years of the Joseon Dynasty: Pa Mun.
Portrayed by Lee Han-na and Han Ji-min in the 2007 MBC TV series Lee San, Wind of the Palace.
Portrayed by Lee Seol-ah and Lee Se-young in the 2021 MBC TV series The Red Sleeve.


== Notes ==


== References ==

Oberhausen-Osterfeld Süd station is a railway station in Oberhausen, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. It is part of the Oberhausen-Osterfeld complex which includes a large marshalling yard.


== The station ==
The station opened in 1873 and is located on the Oberhausen-Osterfeld Süd – Hamm railway and is served by RB services operated by NordWestBahn.


== Train services ==
The following service currently call at Oberhausen-Osterfeld Süd:


== Bus services ==
958


== Rail depot ==
The stations lies close to Oberhausen-Osterfeld rail depot and freight yard.


== See also ==
List of railway stations in North Rhine-Westphalia


== References ==


== External links ==
Railways in Osterfeld (in German)

KAJR may refer to:

KAJR-LD, a low-power television station (channel 21, virtual 36) licensed to serve Des Moines, Iowa, United States
KJJZ, a radio station (95.9 FM) licensed to serve Indian Wells, California, United States, which held the call sign KAJR from 2007 to 2015
Habersham County Airport (ICAO code KAJR)

Amerila rufitarsis is a moth of the subfamily Arctiinae. It was described by Walter Rothschild in 1917. It is found in Papua New Guinea (Umboi Island) and New Britain.


== References ==

Rothschild, W., 1917: Some new moths of the families Arctiidae and Eupterotidae. Novitates Zoologicae 24 (3): 475–492.

The 1964 Arlington State Rebels football team was an American football team that represented Arlington State College (now known as the University of Texas at Arlington) in the Southland Conference during the 1964 NCAA College Division football season. In their twelfth year under head coach Chena Gilstrap, the team compiled a 3–6–1 record.


== Schedule ==


== References ==

Lea Antonoplis and Barbara Gerken were the defending champions, but lost in the semifinals to Sandy Collins and Sharon Walsh-Pete.
Cammy MacGregor and Cynthia MacGregor won the title by defeating Collins and Walsh-Pete 7–6(10–8), 5–7, 6–4 in the final.


== Seeds ==


== Draw ==
Key


=== Draw ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Official results archive (ITF)
Official results archive (WTA)

St Margaret's Island (Welsh: Ynys Farged)  is a small tidal island to the northwest of Caldey Island in Carmarthen Bay, Pembrokeshire, Wales.


== Name ==
The island derives its modern (English) name from a chapel that was built there, probably in the 17th century. The island has also been known as Little Caldey.


== Description ==
At high tide the island is separated from Caldey Island by Little Sound. There are a number of ruins on the island. There is no public access to the island; access on foot from Caldey at low tide is dangerous. Its highest point is 40 metres (130 ft) and its area is 7 hectares (17 acres).
The waters around the island are popular with divers.


== History ==
Religious connections to the island date back to at least 1748. In Victorian times the chapel was converted  into housing for local quarry workers, who mined limestone on the island, which was abandoned by 1851. The buildings subsequently fell into ruin. The chapel ruins and a field enclosure are recorded by the Royal Commission on Ancient monuments.
Since 1950 the island has been leased from Picton Castle Estate. It is designated a Site of Special Scientific Interest. It is managed by The Wildlife Trust of South & West Wales, with management limited to monitoring seabird populations owing to difficult access.


== Wildlife ==
St Margaret's Island is a sensitive conservation site because of the birds that nest on its cliffs: cormorants (the largest population of this species in Wales, constituting 3% of the total British population), guillemots, razorbills, shags, kittiwakes, great black-backed gulls, lesser black-backed gulls and herring gulls. Puffins breed in rock fissures, but the existence of brown rats prevents burrow nests.


== Vegetation ==
Common vegetation is red fescue, common nettle, hogweed, false oat grass and cocksfoot. On seaward edges sea beet, common scurvy grass and common mallow can be seen.


== References ==

Nawnghoi is a mountain of the Shan Hills. It is located in Shan State, Burma, 122 km to the ENE of Longkam.


== Geography ==
Nawnghoi is a mountain with a massive  rocky summit that rises to a height of 1,936 m (6,352 ft).
The nearest villages are Panglong, about 2 km to the west, and Song Möng Sihsu located on the eastern side at the foot of the mountain. The Salween river flows southwards 2 km to the east.


== See also ==
List of mountains in Burma


== References ==


== External links ==
Google Books, The Physical Geography of Southeast Asia

Howard Travis "Trey" Mullinax III (born June 29, 1992) is an American professional golfer.
Mullinax was born in Birmingham, Alabama. He attended and played golf at Gardendale High School. He played college golf at the University of Alabama where he won two tournaments, was an All-American, and helped the team to the 2013 and 2014 NCAA Championships.
Mullinax turned professional in 2014 and has played on the Web.com Tour since 2015. He won his first Web.com Tour event at the 2016 Rex Hospital Open.
In March 2018, Mullinax came through a Monday qualifier for the Valspar Championship. He then tied for 8th, while playing one shot from inside a hospitality tent when he declined a free drop.
In April 2018, Mullinax fired a course record 62 during the third round of the Valero Texas Open at TPC San Antonio, to position himself one shot back going into the final round. He finished as joint runner-up, after a final round 69, to record his best PGA Tour finish to date. 
In May 2019, at the Charles Schwab Challenge's pro-am round, Mullinax got a concussion from a golf ball. Although he initially recovered and made the cut for the tournament, he struggled and missed every other cut in 2019, and got diagnosed with convergence insufficiency as complications from him playing through the injury. He got relegated to the Korn Ferry Tour in 2020. Mullinax played well in the 2020–21 Korn Ferry Tour season, including a win at the Orange County National Championship, which got him back to the PGA Tour in 2022.
He won his first PGA Tour event at the 2022 Barbasol Championship.
In July 2026, Mullinax was suspended for 6 months by the PGA Tour for testing positive for a performance-enhancing substance.


== Amateur wins ==
2012 Northern Amateur
2013 Savannah Quarters Individual Intercollegiate, Isleworth Collegiate Invitational
Sources:


== Professional wins (3) ==


=== PGA Tour wins (1) ===

1Co-sanctioned by the European Tour


=== Korn Ferry Tour wins (2) ===


== Results in major championships ==
Results not in chronological order in 2020.

CUT = missed the half-way cut
"T" indicates a tie for a place
NT = No tournament due to the COVID-19 pandemic


== Results in The Players Championship ==

CUT = missed the halfway cut
"T" indicates a tie for a place


== U.S. national team appearances ==
Amateur

Palmer Cup: 2014


== See also ==
2016 Web.com Tour Finals graduates
2021 Korn Ferry Tour Finals graduates


== References ==


== External links ==
Trey Mullinax at the PGA Tour official site
Trey Mullinax at the Official World Golf Ranking official site

The 2025–26 Luxembourg Division of Honour is the 66th season of second-tier association football in Luxembourg. The season began on 14 August 2026, and is due to end the weekend of 23 May 2027.


== Teams and locations ==


== League table ==


== Results ==


== Luxembourg Division of Honour play-offs ==
The thirteenth and fourteenth-placed teams will each faced the second placed teams from the 1. Division for the final two places in the 2027–28 Luxembourg Division of Honour.


== References ==

Bulli High School is a government-funded co-educational comprehensive secondary day school, located on Ursula Road in Bulli, in the northern Illawarra region of New South Wales, Australia.
In 2018 the school catered for approximately 860 students from Year 7 to Year 12, of whom three percent identified as Indigenous Australians and ten percent were from a language background other than English. The school is operated by the NSW Department of Education.


== Overview ==
The school has a proud tradition in the community for excellence in academic, sporting and cultural pursuits. Bulli High School is the only high school in the Seacliff Community of Schools.


== See also ==

List of government schools in New South Wales: A–F
List of schools in Illawarra and the South East
Education in Australia


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Namafelis is an extinct genus of felids that lived in what is now Namibia during the Early Miocene. It contains a single species, Namafelis minor. Closely related to Diamantofelis, it is of "Pseudaelurus-grade", and therefore a rather basal member of the cat family.


== Discovery and naming ==
Material of this species, including the holotype (AD 99'95), a left mandible including the cheek teeth, was discovered at the locality of Arrisdrift in Namibia, which has variously been dated to 17.5 Ma or 16 Ma, and originally described as Diamantofelis minor. However, a 2003 study led by the same authors as its original description came to the conclusion that the differences were pronounced enough to erect the genus Namafelis. It also described an almost complete left radius (AD 115 '98), the so far only known postcranial remains belonging to this taxon.


== Description ==
Namafelis is comparable in size to a caracal or a large wildcat, making it significantly smaller than its relative Diamantofelis. It differs from its larger relative by possessing a p2, more complex structures on the talonid and the reduced height and transverse compression of the jugal teeth, and therefore less sectorial dentition. It has a strong, wide and well-developed masseteric fossa and a strong angular apophysis as well as a large alveolus for p2. The m1 differs from all other known felids and possesses a voluminous paraconid with a backward inclined anterior cusplet. No cingulum can be seen from a lingual view. Its protoconid is higher than its paraconid. As the lingual wall is eroded, it is not clear if it had a reduced metaconid, although there is no incision labially to suggest its presence. The well-developed talonid is occupied by an elliptical cusplet, which is surrounded by a relatively weak cingulum. The cusplet is joined more closely to the  posterior cingulum than to the trigonid. Originally considered to be a metaconid, the position and size suggest that it belongs to the talonid. Compared to the p4, the p3 is anteriorly shortened, and it possesses a small incision separating the anterior cusplet from the main cusp, although it does not form an anterior cusp. The transversally compressed main cusp dominates the tooth, while the posterior cusplet is small, equal in size to the lingually well-developed posterior cingulum. The p4 is the most badly preserved tooth, and possesses an elongated anterior part, probably with some kind of anterior cusplet. A sharp, pointed cusp and a moderately sized, well-defined cingulum are located posteriorly.
Its radius is slightly shorter than that of the house cat, although the epiphysis is proportionally larger. The surface of the proximal end is elliptical and possesses a small notch in its lateral border, with a smooth and rather concave surface. Both anterior and posterior surfaces are quite smooth, lacking any detectable surfaces, although the former possesses a slightly concave border, while the posterior one is straight.  In the middle of the proximal border of the slightly rugose lateral surface is a small notch. The development of the neck at the upper end of the diaphysis can be seen in lateral and medial views. It is more marked than in the house cat or the Iberian lynx. Furthermore, the rough tubercle located near the posterior margin of the proximal epiphysis is proportionally larger than in either species. The surface of the distal epiphysis is smooth, concave and subelliptical articular, with well-defined margins clearly separated from the rest of the epiphysis which possesses a rough surface. A well-defined crest runs proximally in the anterior surface, curving slightly medially. Below this process, a voluminous, slightly rugose tubercle is projecting distally. The posterior surface of the distal end has an elliptical facet for the ulna displaced towards the lateral margin, with its largest diameter antero-posterior axis of the distal epiphysis, and is very similar to other small felids. There is a rugose central part on the lateral surface of the bone, as well as a bulky, rugose, bony lamina, which is developed near the distal end of the diaphysis. The posterior border of the surface is rugose and projects posteriorly, thereby developing a constriction proximally. As in the house cat and Iberian lynx, the medial surface of the distal epiphysis is less developed than the lateral one. It is separated from the diaphysis by a strong crest, which is however weaker than in these extant species. The radial diaphysis is compressed medio-laterally and possesses a smooth lateral surface, with only a few rugosities. The medial surface is similar and its most distal part is slightly concave.


== Paleoecology ==
The locality of Arrisdrift likely represents a side channel of the Proto-Orange River, which was only occasionally filled with flowing water, perhaps when the river overflowed during the rainy season. The rest of the time it was a shallow pool. The presence of 'Crocodylus' gariepensis and giant tortoises indicate a more tropical climate than found in the area today. The habitat was probably a bushy, rather wooded savanna, with a gallery-forest along the river.
Here Namafelis coexisted with its larger relative Diamantofelis, as well as several more small and medium-sized carnivorans – the viverrid Orangictis, the stenoplesicitid Africanictis meini, the large mustelid Namibictis senuti and the hyainailourid Buhakia hyaenoides. All these species likely preyed on the various birds and small mammals of the locality, such as the macroscelidid Myohyrax, the springhare Megapedetes, the lagomorph Australagomys and the hoatzin-relative Namibiavis. The largest animals of Arrisdrift were the bear-dogs Namibiocyon ginsburgi and Amphicyon, the hyaenodont Hyainailouros, the climatoceratid Orangemeryx and the proboscideans Afromastodon and Prodeinotherium. Other inhabitants include the small suids Namachoerus and Nguruwe, the tragulid Dorcatherium, the diminutive aardvark Myorycteropus, the small bovid Namacerus and large hyrax Prohyrax.


== References ==

Mohammad Kabir Khan (Pashto: محمد کبير خان; born 12 April 1974) is a Pakistani cricket coach and former player. He represented the Pakistan national cricket team from 1994 to 2000 as a left-arm fast bowler, playing four Test and ten One Day International (ODI) matches.
Khan was appointed head coach of Afghanistan in 2008. He resigned in 2010 and briefly coached the United Arab Emirates, before returning to Afghanistan for a further stint from 2011 to 2014. He was appointed head coach of Saudi Arabia in 2021.


== Early life ==
Kabir Khan was born in Peshawar, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan in 1979. He is an ethnic Pashtun.


== Playing career ==
A seam bowler with considerable pace, Khan first played on the Sri Lankan tour of 1994–95, and made sporadic one-day appearances for the next six years. However, he never established a long-term role in the side, having only participated in ten One Day International, finding it tough to break into a Pakistan side sporting both Wasim Akram and Waqar Younis. This was despite a respectable bowling average of just over 25. Khan ended up playing 4 Test matches and 10 One Day Internationals for Pakistan.
He continued playing league cricket in the United Kingdom, including for Stirling County Cricket Club in Scotland as the club's professional.


== Coaching career ==
After retiring from first-class cricket last in 2005, Kabir became the coach of the Habib Bank Limited cricket team side and after gaining experience there, he coached the United Arab Emirates national cricket team.  Khan is a highly qualified ECB Level 3 coach.
Khan was the coach of Afghanistan national cricket team and guided them from the 2008 ICC World Cricket League Division Five, through Division Four and Division Three to One Day International status during the 2009 ICC World Cup Qualifier. Shortly after Afghanistan achieved ODI status, Khan dropped Hasti Gul for their first first-class match in the ICC Intercontinental Cup match against Zimbabwe XI. This led Gul's brother Karim Sadiq to quit the national setup, citing what he called "injustices" and "wrong policies", accusing national coach Kabir Khan of not acting in the best interest of the team. Sadiq later returned to play for Afghanistan.  He guided Afghanistan to victory in the 2010 ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier, which allowed them to historically qualify for the 2010 ICC World Twenty20; during the tournament Afghanistan lost both of their matches to India and South Africa.
On 19 August 2010, Khan quit as the Afghanistan coach, citing interference from officials in the Afghanistan Cricket Board during their tour to Scotland; Khan left Afghanistan top of the Intercontinental Cup and ranked 13th in the world in one-day cricket.
In October 2010, Khan was appointed head coach of the United Arab Emirates national cricket team on a three-year contract. However, he left the UAE to return for a further stint as coach of Afghanistan in December 2011. He oversaw the team's qualification for the 2012 ICC World Twenty20 and the 2015 Cricket World Cup, resigning in September 2014 for personal reasons.
Khan was appointed head coach of Saudi Arabia in 2021. He coached the team to victory at the 2023 ACC Men's Challenger Cup in Thailand.


== References ==


== External links ==
Kabir Khan at Cricinfo

La Laguna Estigia (The River Styx or The Styx), also known simply as Laguna Estigia, is an 1887 Greco-Roman painting by Filipino painter  Félix Resurrección Hidalgo.  It is a companion-piece for Hidalgo's other painting entitled La barca de Aqueronte.  Like the La barca de Aqueronte, the La Laguna Estigia  on Dante's Inferno, the painter pursuing the theme leading towards a “darker” and “more somber interpretation” of it.
The painting was a silver medalist during the 1887 Exposicion General de las Islas Filipinas in Madrid, Spain.


== References ==

Regeneration: Volume I & II is a compilation album by the band Styx released in 2011. It consists of re-recordings of classic Styx songs, one new track entitled "Difference in the World" and two Damn Yankees covers. The album was released first as two separate EP releases, Regeneration: Volume 1 in 2010 and Regeneration: Volume 2 in 2011. The EPs were sold on every date of Styx's The Grand Illusion/Pieces of Eight tour, which began October 14, 2010 in Evansville, Indiana, and they were sold at some of their concerts since July 2010, as well as on their website.  The album was the last Styx studio release with longtime producer Gary Loizzo before his death in 2016.


== Track listing ==
Volume 1
"The Grand Illusion" (Dennis DeYoung)
"Fooling Yourself (The Angry Young Man)" (Tommy Shaw)
"Lorelei" (Dennis DeYoung/James Young)
"Sing for the Day" (Tommy Shaw)
"Crystal Ball" (Tommy Shaw)
"Come Sail Away" (Dennis DeYoung)
"Difference in the World" (Tommy Shaw)
Volume 2
"Blue Collar Man (Long Nights)" (Tommy Shaw)
"Miss America" (James Young)
"Renegade" (Tommy Shaw)
"Queen of Spades" (Dennis DeYoung/James Young)
"Boat on the River" (Tommy Shaw)
"Too Much Time on My Hands" (Tommy Shaw)
"Snowblind" (Dennis DeYoung/James Young)
"Coming of Age" (Jack Blades/Ted Nugent/Tommy Shaw)
"High Enough" (Jack Blades/Ted Nugent/Tommy Shaw)


== Personnel ==
Tommy Shaw - guitar, vocals
James Young - guitar, vocals
Lawrence Gowan - keyboards, vocals
Ricky Phillips - bass
Chuck Panozzo - bass on Fooling Yourself
Todd Sucherman - drums


== References ==

Albert Thomas McComb (27 September 1906 – 24 December 1981) was an Australian rules footballer who played with Essendon and Hawthorn in the Victorian Football League (VFL).


== Family ==
The son of Edmund Kerr McComb (1873–1957) and Sarah Ann McComb, nee Bedford (1878–1973), Albert Thomas McComb was born at Frankston on 27 September 1906.


== Football ==


=== Essendon ===
After commencing his career with Frankston, McComb trialled with Essendon at the start of the 1924 VFL season before joining them in 1925. He played the first three games of the season but was then dropped.


=== Hawthorn ===
Halfway through the 1925 season McComb secured a clearance to Hawthorn and he made three appearances for them in the second half of the season.


=== Frankston ===
McComb commenced the 1926 season with Hawthorn but was cleared back to Frankston without making a senior appearance.


=== Stawell ===
In 1927 he again commenced the season with Hawthorn but after failing to make the team was cleared to Stawell Football Club in June.


=== Hawthorn ===
McComb again returned to Hawthorn for the 1928 VFL season and he made a further 15 appearances over two seasons.


=== Frankston ===
He then returned to Frankston for the 1930 season where he both played and coached for several years.


=== Port Campbell ===
McComb was captain coach of Port Campbell from 1936 to 1939, leading them to premierships in his first two seasons with the club.


== Later life ==
In 1941 Albert McComb married Enid Ethel Langham and they lived in Kew while he worked at the Australian Paper Mills in Fairfield.
McComb also served in the Australian Army for 18 months during World War II.
After his retirement the McCombs moved to Frankston, where they lived until his death in 1981. Albert McComb is buried with his wife at Frankston Cemetery.


== Notes ==


== External links ==
Bert McComb's playing statistics from AFL Tables
Essendon Football club profile

SM U-153 was one of the 329 submarines serving in the Imperial German Navy in World War I. 
U-153 was engaged in the naval warfare and took part in the First Battle of the Atlantic.

U-153 was surrendered to the Allies at Harwich on 24 November 1918 in accordance with the requirements of the Armistice with Germany. 
Exhibited at Greenwich in December 1918, she was originally to be allocated to France, but was swapped with U-162 and retained by the British. Laid up at Portsmouth, she was towed into the English Channel on 30 June 1921 and scuttled.


== Summary of raiding history ==


== References ==


=== Notes ===


=== Citations ===


== Bibliography ==
Gröner, Erich; Jung, Dieter; Maass, Martin (1991). U-boats and Mine Warfare Vessels. German Warships 1815–1945. Vol. 2. Translated by Thomas, Keith; Magowan, Rachel. London: Conway Maritime Press. ISBN 0-85177-593-4.
Jung, Dieter (2004). Die Schiffe der Kaiserlichen Marine 1914-1918 und ihr Verbleib [German Imperial Navy ships 1914-1918 and their fate] (in German). Bonn: Bernard & Graefe. ISBN 3-7637-6247-7.

Jacob Wood could refer to: 

Jake Wood (bodybuilding), American businessman and enthusiast of female bodybuilding
Jake Wood (baseball) (born 1937), American baseball player
Jake Wood (veteran), U.S. Marine Corps veteran and co-founder of Team Rubicon


== See also ==
Jake Wood (born 1972), English actor
Jake Woods (born 1981), American baseball player

John M. McDowell (April 30, 1965 – December 24, 2024) was the J.B. Stroobants Professor of Biotechnology at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. His major area of research is phytopathology and plant-pathogen interactions. He used gene-sequencing technology to examine the genome of Phytophthora capsici and to develop strains of soybean plants that are better able to defend against pathogens.


== Early life and education ==
John McDowell was born on April 30, 1965. He received his B.A. in cell and molecular biology from the University of Tennessee (1987). He received his Ph.D. in genetics, from the University of Georgia  (1995).


== Career ==
McDowell was a postdoctoral fellow with Jeffery Dangl at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill from 1995 to 1999.
McDowell joined the Department of Plant Pathology, Physiology, and Weed Science in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences at Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University (Virginia Tech) in 2000. In 2017, he was named the J.B. Stroobants Professor of Biotechnology at Virginia Tech. As of 2018, he became a professor in the School of Plant and Environmental Sciences at Virginia Tech. He has served as associate scientific director at the Fralin Life Science Institute at Virginia Tech.
McDowell was a strong advocate for congressional funding of scientific research, emphasizing its importance to farmers and food production and its impact on the U.S. economy.
McDowell served on the editorial boards of multiple journals. He was editor-in-chief of Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions (2016–2018).  He joined the Annual Review of Phytopathology in 2019, and became the journal's co-lead editor with Gwyn A. Beattie from 2022-2025.


== Research ==
McDowell studied fundamental biological principles underlying plants' susceptibility to disease, and their defense mechanisms against pathogens. His work is relevant to the development of crops with the ability to resist pathogens and increase yield.
For example, McDowell studied the genome of a pathogen that kills soybeans, the second most planted crop in the U.S.. and used that information to develop strains of soybean plants that are better able to defend against the pathogen. 
He worked with David Haak and others on the development of gene-sequencing technology and the examination of the complex genome of Phytophthora capsici. 
P. capsici attacks plants including soybeans, tomatoes, and lavender.


== Death ==
McDowell died on December 24, 2024, after a 19-month-long battle with cancer.


== Awards and honors ==
2016, Academy of Faculty Leadership, Virginia Tech


== Selected publications ==
McDowell, J. M., ed. (2011). Plant immunity: methods and protocols. New York: Humana Press. ISBN 978-1-61737-997-0.
An, YQ; McDowell, JM; Huang, S; McKinney, EC; Chambliss, S; Meagher, RB (July 1996). "Strong, constitutive expression of the Arabidopsis ACT2/ACT8 actin subclass in vegetative tissues". The Plant Journal. 10 (1): 107–21. Bibcode:1996PlJ....10..107A. doi:10.1046/j.1365-313x.1996.10010107.x. PMID 8758981.
McDowell, JM; Dhandaydham, M; Long, TA; Aarts, MG; Goff, S; Holub, EB; Dangl, JL (November 1998). "Intragenic recombination and diversifying selection contribute to the evolution of downy mildew resistance at the RPP8 locus of Arabidopsis". The Plant Cell. 10 (11): 1861–74. doi:10.1105/tpc.10.11.1861. PMC 143965. PMID 9811794.
McDowell, JM; Dangl, JL (February 2000). "Signal transduction in the plant immune response". Trends in Biochemical Sciences. 25 (2): 79–82. doi:10.1016/s0968-0004(99)01532-7. PMID 10664588.
McDowell, JM; Woffenden, BJ (April 2003). "Plant disease resistance genes: recent insights and potential applications". Trends in Biotechnology. 21 (4): 178–83. doi:10.1016/S0167-7799(03)00053-2. PMID 12679066.
Baxter, L; Tripathy, S; Ishaque, N; Boot, N; Cabral, A; Kemen, E; Thines, M; Ah-Fong, A; Anderson, R; Badejoko, W; Bittner-Eddy, P; Boore, JL; Chibucos, MC; Coates, M; Dehal, P; Delehaunty, K; Dong, S; Downton, P; Dumas, B; Fabro, G; Fronick, C; Fuerstenberg, SI; Fulton, L; Gaulin, E; Govers, F; Hughes, L; Humphray, S; Jiang, RHY; Judelson, H; Kamoun, S; Kyung, K; Meijer, H; Minx, P; Morris, P; Nelson, J; Phuntumart, V; Qutob, D; Rehmany, A; Rougon-Cardoso, A; Ryden, P; Torto-Alalibo, T; Studholme, D; Wang, Y; Win, J; Wood, J; Clifton, SW; Rogers, J; Van den Ackerveken, G; Jones, JDG; McDowell, JM; Beynon, J; Tyler, BM (December 10, 2010). "Signatures of adaptation to obligate biotrophy in the Hyaloperonospora arabidopsidis genome". Science. 330 (6010): 1549–1551. Bibcode:2010Sci...330.1549B. doi:10.1126/science.1195203. PMC 3971456. PMID 21148394.
Kamoun, S; Furzer, O; Jones, JD; Judelson, HS; Ali, GS; Dalio, RJ; Roy, SG; Schena, L; Zambounis, A; Panabières, F; Cahill, D; Ruocco, M; Figueiredo, A; Chen, XR; Hulvey, J; Stam, R; Lamour, K; Gijzen, M; Tyler, BM; Grünwald, NJ; Mukhtar, MS; Tomé, DF; Tör, M; Van Den Ackerveken, G; McDowell, J; Daayf, F; Fry, WE; Lindqvist-Kreuze, H; Meijer, HJ; Petre, B; Ristaino, J; Yoshida, K; Birch, PR; Govers, F (May 2015). "The Top 10 oomycete pathogens in molecular plant pathology". Molecular Plant Pathology. 16 (4): 413–34. Bibcode:2015MolPP..16..413K. doi:10.1111/mpp.12190. PMC 6638381. PMID 25178392.
Cui, Chenming; Herlihy, John H.; Bombarely, Aureliano; McDowell, John M.; Haak, David C. (December 2019). "Draft Assembly of Phytophthora capsici from Long-Read Sequencing Uncovers Complexity". Molecular Plant-Microbe Interactions. 32 (12): 1559–1563. Bibcode:2019MPMI...32.1559C. doi:10.1094/MPMI-04-19-0103-TA. ISSN 0894-0282. PMID 31479390.
Herlihy, JH; Long, TA; McDowell, JM (September 25, 2020). "Iron homeostasis and plant immune responses: Recent insights and translational implications". The Journal of Biological Chemistry. 295 (39): 13444–13457. doi:10.1074/jbc.REV120.010856. PMC 7521657. PMID 32732287.
Wilson, RA; McDowell, JM (August 2022). "Recent advances in understanding of fungal and oomycete effectors". Current Opinion in Plant Biology. 68 102228. Bibcode:2022COPB...6802228W. doi:10.1016/j.pbi.2022.102228. PMID 35605341.
Wang, W; Liu, J; Mishra, B; Mukhtar, MS; McDowell, JM (December 2022). "Sparking a sulfur war between plants and pathogens". Trends in Plant Science. 27 (12): 1253–1265. Bibcode:2022TPS....27.1253W. doi:10.1016/j.tplants.2022.07.007. PMID 36028431.
Bilir, Ö; Göl, D; Hong, Y; McDowell, JM; Tör, M (2022). "Small RNA-based plant protection against diseases". Frontiers in Plant Science. 13 951097. Bibcode:2022FrPS...1351097B. doi:10.3389/fpls.2022.951097. PMC 9434005. PMID 36061762.


== References ==

Prabhakar Rao, aka Prabhakar Raobail, or Raobail (17 November 1937 – 4 April 2018), was an Indian artist and cartoonist.
Raobail was born in 1937 in Kasargod. He studied science in Bangalore and later, studied for a diploma in Applied Arts from the JJ Institute of Applied Art in Mumbai. He joined the Art Department of the Life Insurance Corporation of India as an illustrator and designer, working there for over 31 years. He retired from here and settled down in Dharwad in 1989.
Raobail has contributed cartoons and illustrations to a host of newspapers and magazines. He adopted his professional name 'Raobail', because he thought his original surname 'Rao' was far too common. Under this name, he published in publications such as the Indian Express, the Times of India, Reader’s Digest, The Illustrated Weekly of India, Eve’s Weekly, Imprint, Debonair, Blitz, Sun, Inside Outside, and the Taj Magazine, besides regional publications. His cartoons have featured in the Penguin Book of Indian Cartoons edited by Abu Abraham.
Raobail has designed and illustrated children’s books for UNICEF, such titles as Chakramadhye, Saban, and Railgaadi. He has done greeting cards for CRY and Concern India. He also created collage art using stamps and envelopes.
He has held one-man exhibitions in India and abroad. A selection of his work over 25 years was shown in 2008. In 2009, he was selected by Indian Institute of Cartoonists for their Lifetime Achievement Award.
After a heart attack he died on April 4, 2018, at the age of 80.


== References ==

George Baron Bockelberg (12 December 1890 – 10 October 1971) was an Australian politician. A farmer, he served in the Australian Imperial Force during World War I at Gallipoli and the Western Front. In 1956 he was elected to the South Australian House of Assembly as the Liberal and Country League member for Eyre. He held the seat until his retirement in 1968.


== References ==

The Distrito Federal Trios Championship is a Trios (six-man) tag team Championship primarily promoted by the Mexican Lucha libre professional wrestling promotion International Wrestling Revolution Group (IWRG). The title was created in 1986 and is controlled by the "Comisión de Box y Lucha Libre Mexico D.F." (Mexico City Boxing and Wrestling Commission), which regulates all matches where the title is defended, allowing it to only be defended in Mexico City and the State of Mexico. It is considered a secondary, lower level championship than the Mexican National Trios Championship also sanctioned by the Commission but almost exclusively controlled by Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL). IWRG has held the control of the Distrito Federal Trios Championship since IWRG was founded in 1996 and has at times been a secondary title for the promotion, below the IWRG Intercontinental Trios Championship. The championship is not restricted by nationality, only by geographical location of where it can or cannot be defended.
The current champions are Demonio Infernal, Eterno, and Lunatic Xtreme who became champions on February 3, 2019 by defeating Los Comandos Elite (Oficial Rayan, Oficial Spector and Oficial Liderk). The first Distrito Federal Champions was the team known as Los Temerarios ("The Reckless"; Black Terry, Jose Luis Feliciano, Shu el Guerrero) who won the championship at some point in 1986. Due to very few paper records being preserved of professional wrestling events, especially on the independent circuit there are periods of time where the status of the championship is unclear. At times there is no record of the specific date a team won the championship or who they defeated, leaving the possibility that there may have been other championship reigns in that period of time. Due to the fictional nature of professional wrestling, it is also possible that some of the championship changes that proceeded periods of uncertainty were fictional in nature, where new champions were announced but no actual match took place. In the years preceding Los Oficiales winning the championship in 2007 the title was inactive for long periods of time and was not defended on a regular basis.
Due to the gaps in records, it can only be stated that there have been at least 39 championship reigns between 34 different trios and 83 individual wrestlers. The first version of Los Oficiales (Guardia, Oficial, and Virgilante) is the trio with the most reigns as a team, three; while Oficial is the individual with the most reigns, holding the championship with three different configurations of Los Oficiales. The longest reigning Trio is the current version of Los Oficiales, whose reign from July 19, 2007, to December 7, 2008, was the longest with 507 days in total. Technically the 31st reign by Gringos VIP lasted 679 days, but during the trio's reign the Commission allowed Gringo Loco to be replaced by Apolo Estrada, Jr. as Gringo Loco had returned to the United States of America about halfway through their reign, making Los Oficiales the longest reigning trio. The current version of Los Oficiales is also the team with the longest combined, confirmed championship reign at 5,667 days and counting. Oficial AK-47 has the longest combined reign for an individual, combining four reigns to 5,829 days and counting. The Nuevo León based trio of Los Divos (Bengalí, Cats, and Raiden) held the championship for 21 days in 2005, making it the shortest confirmed reign of any champions. Four wrestlers have been champions under two different wrestling identities; Black Terry has held the title twice under that name and once as the masked character Guerrero Maya. Oficial AK-47 has held it both under his current character and as "Ultra Mega" as well, Oficial Factor previously held the championship under his former identity of Mega as well while Oficial Spartan also held the championship under the name Omega.
As it is a professional wrestling championship, the championship was not won not by actual competition, but by a scripted ending to a match determined by the bookers and match makers. On occasion the promotion declares a championship vacant, which means there is no champion at that point in time. This can either be due to a storyline, or real life issues such as a champion suffering an injury being unable to defend the championship, or leaving the company.


== Championship tournaments ==
It is believed that the original champions Los Temerarios (Black Terry, Jose Luis Feliciano, Shu el Guerrero) won a trios tournament of indeterminate size, but no documentation of the date or participants of the tournament exists.


=== Distrito Federal Trios Tournament, 2010 ===
In April 2010 IWRG stripped Los Terribles Cerebros (Black Terry, Cerebro Negro and Dr. Cerebro) of the championship due to Cerebro Negro electing to work a Desastre Total Ultraviolento (DTU) on the same day as an IWRG show, forcing IWRG to abandon the planned match. IWRG held an eight-team, one night single elimination tournament from April 15 to April 29, 2010 to crown the new champions. Cerebro Negro actually participated in the tournament, but did not team with his former partners Black Terry and Dr. Cerebro.


== Title history ==


== Combined reigns ==
As of September 11, 2026.


=== By team ===


=== By individual ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Distrito Federal Trios Championship

Andrew Gibson Brown, CBE, QPM (born 11 April 1945) was HM Chief Inspector of Constabulary for Scotland from 2004 to 2007.
He was educated at Kelso High School. He began his career as a Police Cadet in 1961; and by 1998 was  Assistant Chief Constable (Crime) with the Lothian and Borders Police. He was Chief Constable of Grampian Police from 1998 to 2004.


== Notes ==

The 2025 Faun-Ardèche Classic was the 25th edition of the Classic Sud-Ardèche cycle race. It was held on 1 March 2025 as a category 1.Pro race on the 2025 UCI ProSeries calendar. The race started and finished in Guilherand-Granges.


== Teams ==
Twenty-three teams of up to seven riders started the race, which included thirteen UCI WorldTeams, six UCI ProTeams, and four UCI Continental teams.
UCI WorldTeams

UCI ProTeams

UCI Continental Teams


== Result ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Micropterix corcyrella is a species of moth belonging to the family Micropterigidae. It was described by Walsingham, Lord Thomas de Grey, in 1919. It is found in Slovenia, Serbia and Montenegro, North Macedonia, Bulgaria and Greece.
The wingspan is about 6.5 millimetres (0.26 in).


== Subspecies ==
Micropterix corcyrella corcyrella Walsingham, 1919 (Greece, Bulgaria, North Macedonia)
Micropterix corcyrella cephaloniensis Kurz, Kurz & Zeller, 2004 (Kefallinia)


== References ==


== External links ==
lepiforum.de

The 1997 NCAA men's volleyball tournament was the 28th annual tournament to determine the national champion of NCAA men's collegiate volleyball. The single-elimination tournament was played at St. John Arena in Columbus, Ohio, during May 1997.
Stanford defeated UCLA in the final match, 3–2 (15–7, 15–10, 9–15, 6–15, 15–13), to win their first national title. The Cardinal (27–4) were coached by Ruben Nieves.
Stanford's Mike Lambert was named the tournament's Most Outstanding Player. Lambert, along with five other players, comprised the All-Tournament Team.


== Qualification ==
Until the creation of the NCAA Men's Division III Volleyball Championship in 2012, there was only a single national championship for men's volleyball. As such, all NCAA men's volleyball programs, whether from Division I, Division II, or Division III, were eligible. A total of 4 teams were invited to contest this championship.


== Tournament bracket ==
Site: St. John Arena, Columbus, Ohio


== All tournament team ==
Mike Lambert, Stanford (Most outstanding player)
Matt Fuerbringer, Stanford
Keenan Whitehurst, Stanford
Paul Nihipali, UCLA
Adam Naeve, UCLA
 Ivan Contreras, Penn State


== References ==

Castle Hotel may refer to:

Castle Hotel, Aberaeron, Wales
Castle Hotel, Castleton, England
Castle Hotel, Conwy, Wales
Castle Hotel, Halton, England
Castle Hotel, Manchester, England
Castle Hotel, Ruthin, Wales
Castle Hotel, Taunton, England
Castle Hotel, York, Western Australia
Castle Hotel & Spa, Tarrytown, New York, U.S.

Shackell is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Jason Shackell (born 1983), English footballer
Keith Shackell (born 1935), English rower
Nicholas Shackell (born 1974), English swimmer
Robin Shackell, acting Governor of Pitcairn


== See also ==
Shackell Bobb, Vincentian lawyer

The S1 League (Sinhala: එස්1 ලීගය; Tamil: எஸ்1 லீக்), or simply S1, also known as Sri Lanka Champions League, is the second-tier division of the Sri Lankan football league system. It was succeeded by the professional Sri Lanka Super League which serves as the first division. Until 2019, it was sponsored by Dialog Axiata and was thus officially known as the Dialog Champions League.
The league was conducted in various formats. Apart from the league system, a playoff stage was included in the 2013–14 season. Currently, 18 clubs participate in the tournament. Saunders have won the most titles in the league, winning 12 titles. Rathnam have won the title 5 times, Renown 4 times, and Colombo 3 times. In recent times, different clubs have been able to win the championship title.


== History ==
The competition started in 1985 and has been held every year since. The 2016 Sri Lanka Football Premier League is the 32nd season of the Sri Lanka Football league. The tournament was conducted in various formats. Apart from the league system a playoff stage was included in the 2013–14 season. Currently 18 clubs participate in the tournament. Saunders are the most time champion with 12 titles. Rathnam have won the title five times and Renown four times. In recent times different clubs have been able to win the championship title. Colombo have won the title three times and are the current champions.


== Competition format ==
In the current structure of the league 18 clubs compete for the title. In the first stage the teams are divided into two groups of nine. Those teams compete in a round robin format. The best four teams from each group qualify for the Championship Stage. In that stage the 8 teams compete in a round robin format and the group winner is the champion of the season. The bottom two teams of each group in the first stage are relegated to the Division I.


=== Qualification for international competitions ===
The champion of the league will earn the chance to play in the AFC Cup tournament which is organized by Asian Football Confederation. Also they qualify for the SAFF Club Championship. However the title holders didn't compete in any of the above competitions until 2014. The first team to play in the AFC Cup was Colombo FC, which won the title in 2015.


== Previous winners ==
Champions so far:


== Most championships ==
The number of national championships that clubs in Sri Lanka have attained.


== Sponsorship ==
The title sponsor of the current season in Dialog. So the league is known as Dialog Champions League. Other than dialog Cargills also sponsor the previous events. The official ball is supplied by Molten. The official broadcast partner is Football Sri Lanka TV.


== Stadiums ==

Most of the clubs in this league haven't any FIFA Standard Stadiums. So most of the matches are played in the 25,000-capacity Sugathadasa Stadium and Kelaniya Football Complex. Some clubs play their matches in their home stadiums which are located in Colombo, Anuradhapura, Kelaniya and Kalutara.


== Top scorers ==


== References ==


== External links ==
League at FIFA
League at soccerway.com

Xanthosia kochii is a species of erect, perennial shrub in the family Apiaceae and is endemic to the south-west of Western Australia. It has trifoliate leaves with wedge-shaped leaflets, white flowers in a compound umbel with 6 to 15 flowers per ray and up to 6 flowers between the rays.


== Description ==
Xanthosia kochii is an erect, perennial shrub that typically grows to a height of 0.3–1.0 m (1 ft 0 in – 3 ft 3 in) and is hairy. Its leaves are trifoliate, the leaflets wedge-shaped, 3–20 mm (0.12–0.79 in) long and 1–6 mm (0.039–0.236 in) wide on a petiole 2–4 mm (0.079–0.157 in) long and sheathing the stem. The flowers are arranged in a compound umbel with 3 to 5 rays and 6 to 15 flowers per ray and 6 flowers between the rays. The flowers are all female or bisexual and male.
There are 3 to 5 linear leaf-like involucral bracts 2–6 mm (0.079–0.236 in) long at the base of the peduncles and 2 or 3 egg-shaped bracts at the base of the flowers. The sepals are narrowly elliptic to egg-shaped, 1.0–1.5 mm (0.039–0.059 in) long and about 0.8 mm (0.031 in) wide. The petals are white, about 1.1 mm (0.043 in) long and about 0.7 mm (0.028 in) wide. Flowering occurs from August to September.


== Taxonomy and naming ==
This species was first formally described in 1911 by Ernst Georg Pritzel, who gave it the name Trachymene kochii in Repertorium Specierum Novarum Regni Vegetabilis, from specimens collected near Watheroo by Max Koch in 1905. In 2013, J.M.Hart and Murray Henwood transferred the species to Xanthosia as X. kochii in the journal Telopea. The specific epithet (kochii) honours the collector of the type specimen.


== Distribution and habitat ==
This species of xanthosia grows under thickets of species of Allocasuarina, Melaleuca and Acacia between Jibberding, Tardun, Mount Gibson and Yandanooka in the  Avon Wheatbelt, Geraldton Sandplains, and Yalgoo bioregions of south-western Western Australia and is listed as "not threatened" by the Western Australian Government Department of Biodiversity, Conservation and Attractions.


== References ==

Anuppampattu is a village situated in the Ponneri Taluk of the Tiruvallur district in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. The village falls under the administrative jurisdiction of Siruvakkam gram panchayat. Thiruvallur and Ponneri serve as the district and sub-district headquarters for Anuppampattu, respectively.


== Geography ==
Anuppampattu spans a total geographical area of 961.57 hectares.


== Demographics ==
According to the 2011 Census of India, Anuppampattu has a total population of 8,719 individuals. The population is almost evenly split between men and women, with 4,370 men and 4,349 women. The village has a literacy rate of 77.69%, with male literacy at 85.44% and female literacy at 70.00%. There are around 2,350 houses in Anuppampattu.


== Economy ==
Ponneri, being the nearest town to Anuppampattu (about 4km away), serves as the hub for major economic activities for the residents of the village. Its proximity to Ponneri facilitates easy access to markets, healthcare, and other essential services.
As of 2011, out of the 4119 people working more than six months of the year, 1384 (37%) were either farm owners, co-owners, or agricultural laborers.


== References ==

Curetis brunnea is a species of butterfly in the lycaenid subfamily Curetinae. It was described by Alfred Ernest Wileman in 1909 as Curetis acuta var. brunnea.


== Distribution ==
The type locality of Curetis brunnea is on Taiwan. The species is also distributed from the eastern coast of China to the Himalayas.


== Appearance ==
The species was described by Wileman as being almost entirely brown, with a faint red area that may be visible on the hindwings, and having an expanse of 46 to 48 mm.


== Notes and references ==

Zsuzsa Budavari-Novak (born 1978 in Kecskemét) is a Hungarian conductor and current leader of the Maribor Academic Choir in Slovenia.


== Biography ==
Following primary and secondary school, Zsuzsa Budavari-Novak studied music teaching and conducting at the University of Music in Pécs. During this time she gained considerable experience as a teacher at various music schools and initially became the conductor of the female choir Cantikum Cydrel which not only performed many concerts in Pecs but toured all over Hungary. She also sang with the vocal group Bach Singers.
Zsuzsa Budavari-Novak studied music at the Faculty of Arts in Pécs and the Academy of Music in Budapest, and graduated from both institutions in 2001.
Following graduation, Zsuzsa Budavari-Novak moved to Slovenia, first working with the Vokalischoir, and then with male octet Osmica she created.
Since 2002, Zsuzsa Budavari-Novak has been the conductor of the Maribor Academic Choir. The Maribor Academic Choir has toured to a number of European countries such as the UK, the Netherlands, Germany, France and Austria.


== Awards ==
1986: Gold medal in Cork, Ireland
1995: Gold medal in Pardubice, Czech Republic
2004: Awarded at the University Choir Festival in Bologna
2004: Awarded at the International Choir Competition in Jersey


== References ==

Jean-Paul Dubois (French pronunciation: [ʒɑ̃ pɔl dybwa]; born 1950 in Toulouse, Haute-Garonne) is a French journalist and author. He won the Prix Goncourt in 2019 for Tous les hommes n'habitent pas le monde de la même façon ("All Men Do Not Inhabit This World in the Same Way"), a novel told from the perspective of a prisoner looking back on life. The jury compared Dubois to John Irving and William Boyd, who wrote books that were both popular and critical successes.
He is the author of several novels and travel pieces, and is a reporter for Le Nouvel Observateur. His novel, Une vie française, published in French in 2004 and in English in 2007, is a saga of the French baby boom generation, from the idealism of the 1960s to the consumerism of the 1990s. The French version of the novel won the Prix Femina.


== Works ==
Tous les matins je me lève : roman, Éditions Robert Laffont, 1988, ISBN 978-2221056448
Kennedy et moi: roman, Seuil, 1996, ISBN 978-2-02-028539-1
Je pense à autre chose, Editions de l'Olivier, 1997, ISBN 978-2-87929-144-4
Si ce livre pouvait me rapprocher de toi, Éditions de l'Olivier, 1999, ISBN 978-2-87929-218-2
Vie Francaise. Olivier. 2004. ISBN 978-2-87929-467-4.; Random House Digital, Inc. 2008, ISBN 978-1-4000-9678-7
A French Life, Penguin Books, 2008, ISBN 978-0-14-102482-0
Foreword to Doisneau, Robert (2010). Palm Springs 1960. Paris: Flammarion. p. 156. ISBN 978-2-08-030129-1. LCCN 2010442384. OCLC 491896174.
Le cas Sneijder,  Editions de l'Olivier, 2011, ISBN 978-2-87929-864-1
Tous les hommes n'habitent pas le monde de la même façon,  Editions de l'Olivier, 2019, ISBN 9782823615166, Prix Goncourt


== References ==


== External links ==
Works by Jean-Paul Dubois at Open Library

Alberto Olmedo (24 August 1933 – 5 March 1988) was an Argentine comedian and actor.
Olmedo was born in the city of Rosario. In his teens, he was a gifted gymnast and an aspiring actor who tried his luck with several amateur theater companies and enjoyed some local success.
Olmedo moved to Buenos Aires in 1954. One year later, while working as a technician in Canal 7, Argentina's first television station, his improvisation skills caught the attention of the management, whom gave him acting jobs in several TV shows.
While Olmedo had a string of successful children's programs during the 1960s, he gained the most notoriety when allowed to mix slapstick, nonsense and adult-oriented entertainment.


== Career ==


=== Film ===
Starting with Gringalet in 1959, Olmedo starred in 49 movies, including: Los Doctores las Prefieren Desnudas  (Doctors Prefer Them Naked), in 1973, Maridos en Vacaciones, (Husbands on Vacation, 1975), Fotógrafo de Señoras (Ladies' Photographer, 1978), Las Mujeres Son Cosas de Guapos (Women Are for the Brave, 1981), Los Fierecillos Indomables (The Indomitable Little Beasts, 1982), Sálvese Quien Pueda (Every Man for Himself, 1984) and Rambito y Rambón, Primera Misión (Little Rambo and Big Rambo, First Mission, 1986). His last movie was Atracción Peculiar, released shortly after his death. Los Fierecillos Indomables had a sequel in 1983.
Many of Olmedo's movies in the 1980s were adult-oriented comedies featuring Jorge Porcel and vedettes Moria Casán and Susana Giménez. Conservative Argentine authorities rated these movies as PM-18 (age 18 and above), save for a few tamer films aimed at family audiences.
The "Olmedo and Porcel" movies are considered to be the pinnacle of Argentina's sexploitation movie genre. Most of these movies were directed by Gerardo Sofovich or his brother Hugo, who also directed Olmedo's TV shows El Chupete (The Pacifier) and No Toca Botón! (Don't Touch That Button!).


=== Television ===
Olmedo's Capitán Piluso show was a hit with children in the 1960s, but he preferred working for adult audiences. After acting in the successful Operación Ja Ja weekly show, Olmedo landed his first leading role in El Chupete.
In 1976, shortly after the beginning of the military dictatorship known as the National Reorganization Process, Olmedo had his own death announced on the show. Once the truth was revealed, the actor was punished for his prank and banished from the airwaves for two years.
In the 1980s, No Toca Botón! was the highest-rated show in Argentina. In fits of improvisation, Olmedo would stray from script, tear down props, dash past the cameras and verbally abuse his fellow actors. He created popular characters such as General González, Rucucu the Ukrainian magician, the dictator of Costa Pobre (a parody of a banana republic ruler; its name is a pun on Costa Rica, since the country's name means "rich coast" and Costa Pobre means "poor coast"), and above all el Manosanta ("the miracle healer"), a multi-level parody on charlatans of all stripes and Argentines' reckless pursuit of sex and money.
Those years saw the blooming of a partnership with character actor Javier Portales, who provided a counterweight to Olmedo's wild improvising.
Olmedo, who was nicknamed el Negro, would evoke his Rosario background by using Rosario slang and narrating implausible stories about his childhood exploits.


== Death ==
Olmedo died in the resort city of Mar del Plata, Buenos Aires, on 5 March 1988. According to police reports, he slipped off his eleventh-floor apartment's balcony. It is believed that he tried, possibly under the influence of alcohol or cocaine, to perform a high-wire stunt on the balcony and lost his balance. The only witness to his last moments was girlfriend Nancy Herrera, who was pregnant with his posthumous son Alberto Jr.
Olmedo married and divorced twice and had six children (including Alberto Jr.). He is buried in La Chacarita Cemetery in Buenos Aires.


== See also ==
Jorge Porcel
Argentine humour
List of Argentines


== References ==


== External links ==

Alberto Olmedo at Cinenacional.com (in Spanish) (archive)
"Official" home page (in Spanish)
Olmedo Bio (in Spanish)
Alberto Olmedo at IMDb
An exposition of Olmedo-related art Archived 31 July 2023 at the Wayback Machine

Emilie Stoesen Christensen (born 1986 in Oslo, Norway) is a Norwegian jazz singer and actor, the daughter of Jazz drummer Jon Christensen (1943–2020) and actress Ellen Horn (b. Stoesen in 1951), and half sister of Theater director Kjersti Horn (b. 1977). She has lately been gaining recognition for her work with a number of Norwegian bands, including the «Oslo JazzNonett», and made her record debut with Jon Balke's Batagraf album Say And Play (2011) at ECM Records.


== Career ==
Christensen has played roles in musical plays as Spellemann på taket (Fiddler on the Roof) and Spring awakening at Oslo Nye Teater.
As a student at the Norges Musikkhøgskole (NMH) in Oslo, she was on a Norway tour (2012) with «Oslo JazzNonett», and among other places, they had chosen «Musikkbaren» at NMH as a concert arena (at home). All music is original, written by the band members: Christensen (vocals and text), Magela Herrera Portuondo (flute), Kasper Skullerud Værens (alto saxophone and clarinet), Harald Lassen (tenor and soprano saxophones), Kristoffer Eikrem (trumpet), David Aleksander Sjølie (guitar), Kjetil Jerve (piano), Bjørnar Kaldefoss Tveite (bass), Andreas Wildhagen (drums). In 2012 she performed within the band «Play Tell» including saxophonist Harald Lassen, pianist Eyolf Dale, bassist Mats Eilertsen and her father drummer Jon Christensen at the Norwegian national jazz scene «Victoria» in Oslo.


== Discography ==
Say And Play (ECM Records, 2011), with Jon Balke's Batagraf


== References ==


== External links ==
Oslo JazzNonett på Myspace
Play Tell – Variasjoner Over Olines(J.Christensen, M.Eilertsen, E.Dale, H.Lassen, E.Christensen) on YouTube

145534 Jhongda, provisional designation 2006 GJ, is an asteroid and member of the stony Merxia family, orbiting in the central region of the asteroid belt, approximately 2–3 kilometers (1–2 miles) in diameter. It was discovered by Taiwanese astronomers Yang Tingzhang and Ye Quanzhi at the Lulin Observatory on 1 April 2006. The likely elongated asteroid has a rotation period of 4.5 hours. It was named for the Taiwanese National Central University.


== Orbit and classification ==
Jhongda is a member of the Merxia family (513), a large family of stony S-type asteroids named after its parent body 808 Merxia. It orbits the Sun in the central main-belt at a distance of 2.3–3.1 AU once every 4 years and 5 months (1,625 days; semi-major axis of 2.71 AU). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.14 and an inclination of 6° with respect to the ecliptic. The first precovery was taken by Spacewatch in February 1992, extending the asteroid's observation arc by 14 years prior to its discovery at the Lulin Observatory.


== Naming ==
This minor planet was named after the Taiwanese National Central University, which controls the discovering Lulin Observatory. "Jhongda" is the University's abbreviation in Mandarin Chinese. The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 2 April 2007 (M.P.C. 59389).


== Physical characteristics ==
In January 2014, a rotational lightcurve of Jhongda was obtained from photometric observation by astronomers at the Intermediate Palomar Transient Factory in California. Lightcurve analysis gave a rotation period of 4.490±0.040 hours with a high brightness variation of 0.67 in magnitude (U=2) indicative of an elongated, non-spherical shape. The Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link assumes a standard albedo for carbonaceous asteroids of 0.057 and calculates a diameter of 3.54 kilometers with an absolute magnitude of 15.98. Conversely, Jhongda measure only 2.1 kilometers for an albedo of 0.23, which is typical for the stony members of the Merxia family.


== References ==
 


== External links ==
Asteroid Lightcurve Database (LCDB), query form (info Archived 16 December 2017 at the Wayback Machine)
Dictionary of Minor Planet Names, Google books
Discovery Circumstances: Numbered Minor Planets (145001)-(150000) – Minor Planet Center
145534 Jhongda at AstDyS-2, Asteroids—Dynamic Site
Ephemeris · Observation prediction · Orbital info · Proper elements · Observational info
145534 Jhongda at the JPL Small-Body Database

Alfonso (Alphonsus) Salmerón, SJ (8 September 1515 – 13 February 1585) was a Spanish biblical scholar, a Catholic priest, and one of the first Jesuits.


== Biography ==
He was born in Toledo, Spain on 8 September 1515. He studied literature and philosophy at Alcalá and then philosophy and theology at the Sorbonne in Paris. Here, through Diego Laynez, he met St. Ignatius of Loyola and with Laynez, St. Peter Faber and St. Francis Xavier, he enlisted as one of the first companions of Loyola in 1534. The small company left Paris on 15 November 1536, reached Venice on 8 January 1537 and during Lent of that year went to Rome. He delivered a discourse before the Pope and was, in return, granted leave to receive Holy orders so soon as he reached canonical age. About 8 September, all the first companions met at Vicenza and all, save St. Ignatius, said their first Mass. The plan of a pilgrimage to the Holy Land was abandoned. Salmeron devoted his ministry in Siena to the poor and to children. On 22 April 1541, he pronounced his solemn vows in St. Paul's-Outside-the-Walls basilica as a professed member of the newly established Society of Jesus.
In the autumn of 1541 Pope Paul III sent Salmeron and Paschase Broët as Apostolic nuncios to Ireland. They landed by way of Scotland on 23 February 1542. Thirty-four days later they set sail for Dieppe and went on to Paris. For two years Salmeron preached in Rome; his exposition of the Pauline Epistle to the Ephesians thrice a week in the church of the Society effected much good (1545). After preaching during Lent at Bologna, he went with Diego Laynez to the Council of Trent (18 May 1546) as theologian to Paul III. The Dogma of Justification was under discussion.
The two Jesuits at once reportedly won the hearts and respect of all; their discourses had to be printed and distributed to the bishops. Both set out for Bologna (14 March 1547) with the council. After serious sickness at Padua, Salmeron once again took up his council work. Salmeron gave statements on issues including justification, Holy Eucharist, penance, purgatory, indulgences, the Sacrifice of the Mass, matrimony and the origin of episcopal jurisdiction.
The next two years were in great part spent in preaching at Bologna, Venice, Padua and Verona. On 4 October 1549, Salmeron and his companions, Claude Le Jay and Peter Canisius, took their doctorate at the University of Bologna, so that they might, at the urgent invitation of William IV of Bavaria, accept chairs in Ingolstadt. Salmeron undertook to interpret the Pauline Epistle to the Romans. Upon the death of Duke William, at the instigation of the Bishop of Verona, much to the chagrin of the faculty of the Academy of Ingolstadt, Salmeron was returned to Verona (24 September 1550). That year he explained the Gospel of St. Matthew.
In 1551 he was summoned to Rome to help St. Ignatius in working up the Constitutions (statutes) of the Jesuit Society. Other work was in store. He was soon (February, 1551) sent down to Naples to inaugurate the Society's first college there, but after a few months was summoned by Ignatius to go back to the Council of Trent as theologian to pope Julius III. It was during the discussions preliminary to these sessions that Laynez and Salmeron, as papal theologians, gave their vota first. When the Council once again suspended its sessions, Salmeron returned to Naples (October, 1552). Pope Paul IV sent him to the Augsburg Diet (May, 1555) with nuncio Lippomanus, and thence into Poland and in April, 1556 to Belgium.
Another journey to Belgium was undertaken in the capacity of adviser to Cardinal Giovanni Pietro Caraffa (2 December 1557). Laynez appointed Salmeron first Jesuit Provincial of Naples in 1558 and vicar-general in 1561 during the former's apostolic legation to France. The Council of Trent was again resumed (May, 1562) and a third pontiff, Pius IV, chose Salmeron and Laynez for papal theologians. The subject to be discussed was very delicate: the Divine origin of the rights and duties of bishops. During the years 1564–82, Salmeron was engaged chiefly in preaching and writing; he preached every day during eighteen Lenten seasons; his preaching was fervent, learned and fruitful. His writings during this long period were voluminous; Saint Robert Bellarmine spent five months in Naples reviewing them; each day he pointed out to Salmeron the portions that were not up to the mark, and the next day the latter brought back those parts corrected. He died at Naples on 13 February 1585.


== Works ==
The chief writings of Salmeron are his sixteen volumes of Scriptural commentaries: eleven on the Gospels, one on the Acts, and four on the Pauline Epistles. Southwell says that these sixteen volumes were printed by Sanchez, Madrid, from 1597 till 1602; in Brescia, 1601; in Cologne, from 1602 to 1604, Sommervogel (Bibliothèque de la C. de J., VII, 479) has traced only twelve tomes of the Madrid edition - the eleven of the Gospels and one of the Pauline commentaries. The Gospel volumes are entitled, Alfonsi Salmeronis Toletani, e Societate Jusu Theologi, Commentarii in Evangelicam Historiam et in Acta Apostolorum, in duodecim tomos distributi (Madrid, 1598–1601). The first Cologne edition, together with the second (1612–15), are found complete. These voluminous commentaries are the popular and university expositions which Salmeron had delivered during his preaching and teaching days. In old age, he gathered his notes together, revised them, and left his volumes ready for posthumous publication by Bartholomew Pérez de Nueros. Hartmann Grisar (Jacobi Lainez Disputationes Tridentinae, I, 53) thinks that the commentary on Acts is the work of Perez; Braunsberger (Canisii epist., III, 448) and the editors of Monumenta Historica S. J. (Epistolae Salmeron, I, xxx) disagree with Grisar.


== References ==
Attribution
 This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Herbermann, Charles, ed. (1913). "Alphonsus Salmeron". Catholic Encyclopedia. New York: Robert Appleton Company.

Donald Wilson (25 September 1892 – 21 June 1978) was a United States Army Air Forces general during World War II.
Wilson enlisted in the Maryland National Guard as a private in 1916 and served with it on the Mexican border and the Western Front during World War I before transferring to the United States Army Air Service. After the war, he obtained a regular commission. Already qualified as an aerial observer, he became a pilot in 1922. For many years he was an influential instructor at the Air Corps Tactical School. Wilson became a leading theorist who embraced the doctrine that strategic bombing was the most important aspect of air power. He argued that by attacking vulnerabilities, whole industries could be brought to a halt without necessarily having to destroy all of the factories. The doctrine which Wilson expounded later became the basis for AWPD-1, the Army Air Forces' strategic war plan developed in 1941.
During World War II, Wilson served as Chief of the Personnel Division (G-l) of the War Department General Staff. He became Chief of Staff of the Fifth Air Force in September 1942, before returning to the United States in 1944 to become Assistant Chief of Staff, United States Army Air Forces for Organization, Commitments and Requirements. For a time he was acting Chief of Staff of Army Air Forces. In February 1945, Wilson was present at the Battle of Iwo Jima as an official Army Air Forces observer. In June 1945, he assumed command of the Air Force Proving Ground Command.
After the war, Wilson served as a member of the Gerow Board, which examined the military educational system and instituted a series of long-lasting reforms. In 1947, he was diagnosed with neurasthenia, and retired with the rank of major general.


== Early life ==
Donald Wilson was born at Hiner's Mill in Pendleton County, West Virginia on 25 September 1892, the third of seven children of John Hamilton Wilson and his wife Martha Jane, née Siple. John Wilson worked a number of odd jobs before becoming a mail carrier with the Baltimore Post Office in 1899. Donald was educated at Baltimore Polytechnic Institute. In 1910, he went to work as a surveyor for the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad.


== World War I ==
In February 1916, Wilson enlisted as a private in the Maryland National Guard and was posted to Company H, 5th Maryland Infantry. This unit was called to active duty at Laurel, Maryland in June 1916 for service on the Mexican border. It was based at Eagle Pass, Texas, and, like most National Guard units, supported but did not directly participate in the Pancho Villa Expedition, although it did occasionally cross the border into Mexico. Wilson was soon promoted to corporal, and later sergeant. The 5th Maryland Regiment returned to Maryland in February 1917.
The 5th Maryland Infantry was again called up in April 1917 following the declaration of war by the United States on the German Empire. Wilson was promoted to second lieutenant, effective 9 April 1917. He was posted to Company C, 5th Maryland Infantry. This time, the regiment moved to Camp McClellan, Alabama, where the 5th Maryland Infantry was absorbed into the 115th Infantry of the 29th Division on 1 October 1917. While at Camp McClellan, Wilson applied for training as an aerial observer but his request was not accepted. He was promoted to first lieutenant on 23 April 1918.
In June 1918, the 29th Division sailed from Hoboken, New Jersey to Brest, France. It travelled across France, entering the front line trenches in the Traubach-le-Bas sector. In France, Wilson once again applied for training as an aerial observer, in response to an appeal from American Expeditionary Forces (AEF) headquarters. This time, he was successful and in September 1918 he reported to the Air Service Concentration Barracks at Saint-Maixent. After training there, at Camp de Souge, and at Tours in November 1918, he was posted to the 2nd Corps Aeronautical School at Châtillon-sur-Seine. He was assigned to the 186th Aero Squadron at Weißenthurm (Weissenthurm) in May 1919, returned to the United States in July, and was discharged from the Army on 15 August 1919.


== Between the wars ==
Wilson married Edna Taggert, the older sister of the wife of his best friend in Anniston, in a ceremony in her home in Pittsburgh. After a honeymoon in Miami, Florida, they settled in Baltimore. The couple eventually had two children: Teresa Jane, born in 1921, and Donald, born in 1923.
In 1920, Wilson applied for and received a Regular Army commission in the Air Service, into which he was commissioned as a first lieutenant on 1 July 1920. He was immediately advanced to captain and posted to the Observation School at Post Field, Oklahoma as a senior instructor. In 1922, he was sent to Carlstrom Field, Florida for primary pilot training and then to Kelly Field, Texas for advanced training. He also served there as an instructor in observation. From 1924 to 1927, he served in Washington, DC, in the Office of the Chief of the Air Service. This was followed by a two-year tour of duty in the Philippines as commander of the 2nd Observation Squadron.
On return to the United States in 1929, Wilson was posted to the Air Corps Tactical School at Langley Field, Virginia as an instructor. In 1931 the school moved to Maxwell Field, Alabama, where he was promoted to major on 1 February 1932. At the Air Corps Tactical School, Wilson became "one of the leading theorists ... during the thirties". Like Giulio Douhet, the school embraced the doctrine that strategic bombing was the most important aspect of air power. However, Wilson rejected those parts of Douhet's doctrine that called for mass bombing of cities to break the morale of the enemy.
Instead, in preparing the training course, Wilson drew on his knowledge that critical breaks in railroad systems could disrupt the entire system. He theorized that this was equally true of other industries, that by attacking vulnerabilities, whole industries could be brought to a halt without necessarily having to destroy all the factories. The school identified transportation, steel, iron ore, and electric power as key economic industries. Wilson termed this doctrine "industrial web theory".
The formulators of industrial web theory were relatively young junior officers, nearly all of them former reservists commissioned during or immediately after World War I. They viewed war in the abstract and admitted that they had no conclusive proof of their theories, but firmly believed that air power would dominate future warfare, after certain technological limitations had been overcome. Wilson was one of the nine key advocates, all instructors at the Tactical School, who became known as the "Bomber Mafia": Wilson, Walker, Major Odas Moon (who died in 1937), and future generals Haywood S. Hansell, Laurence Kuter, Muir Fairchild, Robert Olds, Robert M. Webster, and Harold L. George. They espoused the doctrine in testimony to the Howell Commission on Federal Aviation in 1934,  where it was used as an argument supporting the creation of an independent air force.
Once adopted as doctrine, industrial web theory had a host of effects. To obtain the required accuracy to hit pinpoint targets, bombing had to be done by daylight. An improved bombsight was required: the Norden bombsight Mark XV, appearing in 1931. Since a pursuit plane did not have the range to accompany the bombers, they had to be able to defend themselves, and new tactics called for formation flying to maximize the defense against hostile pursuit aircraft. The requirement for a better bomber led to the development of the Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress.  Wilson accepted the argument, most forcibly advanced by fellow instructor Kenneth Walker, that fighter aircraft did not have the range or speed to accompany bombers and probably could not shoot them down.
Wilson attended the Command and General Staff School at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, graduating in June 1934. He considered the course to be a waste of time, "devoted in large part to the minutiae of ground officers' duties" and "devoid of serious recognition of the airplane as an instrument of war." After graduation he returned to the Air Corps Tactical School as Director of the Department of Air Tactics and Strategy, and was promoted to lieutenant colonel on 16 June 1936. From November 1938 to March 1939, he was also assistant commandant of the school.


== World War II ==
Wilson was promoted to colonel on 16 October 1940. He returned to Washington, DC, where he served in the Office of the Chief of the Air Corps under Brigadier General Carl A. Spaatz, the chief of its Plans Division. In May 1940, he was transferred to the Plans Division of the War Department General Staff, which was headed by Brigadier General Leonard T. Gerow. Wilson was briefly chief of staff of Major General Walter H. Frank's Third Air Force in Tampa, Florida but after only two months he was recalled to Washington to again serve on the War Department General Staff, this time in the G-1 (Personnel) Division, which was headed by Major General John H. Hilldring, a Command and General Staff School classmate. Wilson was promoted to brigadier general on 22 June 1942. In July 1942, Hilldring left to take over command of the 84th Infantry Division and Wilson became Assistant Chief of Staff, G-1.

In September 1942, Wilson became chief of staff of Major General George Kenney's Allied Air Forces, Southwest Pacific Area and Fifth Air Force. Kenney had specifically requested General Henry Arnold to send Wilson to replace his chief of staff, Air Vice Marshal William Bostock, an RAAF officer. Wilson had known Kenney for many years and was on a first name basis with him; but while serving as his chief of staff, Wilson always addressed Kenney respectfully as "general". The loss of Brigadier General Kenneth N. Walker over Rabaul in January 1943 and then his successor, Brigadier General Howard K. Ramey on a reconnaissance mission in March did not dampen Wilson's desire to accompany a mission, and he tagged along as a passenger on a B-24 on a bombing raid on Rabaul. For his service in the Southwest Pacific, Wilson was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal.
In March 1944, Arnold asked for Kenney to return Wilson to work on his own staff. Wilson took the long way back, visiting the other war theatres in India, China, the Middle East, Italy and England. Wilson found the Army Air Forces Chief of Staff, Lieutenant General Barney Giles anxious for Wilson's return so Giles could pay a visit to the war theatres. Wilson therefore found himself acting chief of staff. On Giles' return, Wilson became Assistant Chief of Staff, Organization, Commitments and Requirements. In February 1945, Wilson was present at the Battle of Iwo Jima as an official Army Air Forces observer. He was promoted to major general on 17 March 1945.
On 25 June 1945, Wilson was replaced as assistant chief of staff by Major General Hoyt Vandenberg. For his service in the post, Wilson was awarded an oak leaf cluster to his Distinguished Service Medal. He was appointed to command the Air Force Proving Ground Command. At the time, some 22,000 airmen were assigned to this command.


== Post war ==

Wilson served as a member of the Gerow Board, under his former chief, Lieutenant General Leonard T. Gerow, which examined the military educational system. The board met in Washington, DC, between 3 and 12 January 1946. Its final report to the Chief of Staff of the United States Army, General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower, recommended a system of five joint colleges, which would collectively form a National Security University under the direction of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. In addition to the existing Industrial College and National War College, the board recommended the establishment of a  joint administrative college, a joint intelligence college, and a Department of State college. Wilson went further and argued for the establishment of an air university, under the control of the Army Air Forces. Wilson's proposal was accepted, and the Gerow Board's recommendations resulted in a multi-tiered educational system still in effect today, with a Squadron Officer School for junior officers; an Air Command and Staff College for middle level officers; and an Air University for senior officers. All were created from the old Air Corps Tactical School. Beyond that, air officers would have to participate in joint training with their Army and Navy colleagues at the Industrial College, National War College and Joint Forces Staff College, the last two being creations of the Gerow Board. The first classes began at these two new institutions in September 1946 and January 1947 respectively.

In October 1946, Wilson was diagnosed with neurasthenia. Discharged on the grounds of disability with the rank of major general, he retired to Carmel, California, where he wrote and published his memoirs, entitled Wooing Peponi, in 1973. He died on 21 June 1978. His papers are in The George C. Marshall Foundation.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Donald Wilson Papers (PDF), archived from the original (PDF) on 28 January 2011, retrieved 21 April 2009

Anna Radius Zuccari (May 7, 1846 – July 13, 1918) was an Italian writer who used the pen name Neera.


== Biography ==
The daughter of Fermo Zuccari, an architect, she was born Anna Zuccari in Milan and grew up in Caravaggio. Her mother died when she was ten and she was raised by two older unmarried aunts from her father's family. Her father died when she was twenty. In 1871, she married the banker Emilio Radius and entered Milanese literary circles. She published her first short story in 1875 in the publication Il Pungolo. Zuccari contributed to various magazines and journals, such as Rivista d'Italia, Nuova Antologia, L'Illustrazione Italiana, La Lettura and L'Idea Liberale. In 1890, she founded the journal Vita Intima.
Despite her career as a successful author, it was Zuccari's view that a woman's place was in the home, which she called "real feminism". Her fiction, beginning with Un romanzo (1876), extols maternity as the only proper vocation for women as well as a source of surprising passion. She summarized her conservative views in Idee di una donna (1903 ), having given them more practical form in the Dizionario d'igiene per le famiglie (1881), written jointly with Paolo Mantegazza.
She died in Milan of cancer at the age of 72, being confined to bed by her illness. During the period before her death, she dictated her memoirs which were published after her death as Una giovinezza del secolo XIX (Portrait of a 19th-century youth). Widely popular in her own lifetime, Zuccari was a friend of Capuana and her work was admired by Croce. Recent criticism focuses on the ambivalence of her anti-feminist defence of women.


== Selected works ==


== References ==

Conus duffyi is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Conidae, the cone snails and their allies.
Like all species within the genus Conus, these snails are predatory and venomous. They are capable of stinging humans, therefore live ones should be handled carefully or not at all.


== Distribution ==
This species occurs in the Caribbean Sea  at Los Roques, Venezuela, and off the Dutch Antilles.


== Description ==
The maximum recorded shell length is 42 mm.


== Habitat ==
The average recorded depth of Conus duffyi is 2 meters.


== References ==

Tucker J.K. & Tenorio M.J. (2009) Systematic classification of Recent and fossil conoidean gastropods. Hackenheim: Conchbooks. 296 pp.
Puillandre N., Duda T.F., Meyer C., Olivera B.M. & Bouchet P. (2015). One, four or 100 genera? A new classification of the cone snails. Journal of Molluscan Studies. 81: 1–23


== External links ==

The Conus Biodiversity website
Cone Shells – Knights of the Sea
"Tenorioconus duffyi". Gastropods.com. Retrieved 15 January 2019.

Reezal Merican bin Naina Merican (Jawi: ريزال ماريکان بن ناينا ماريکان; born 29 July 1972) is a Malaysian politician and banker who has served as the 9th chairman of the Malaysia External Trade Development Corporation (MATRADE) since May 2023 and member of the Penang State Legislative Assembly (MLA) for Bertam since August 2023. He served as the minister of housing and local government in the Barisan Nasional (BN) administration under former prime minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob from August 2021 to the collapse of the BN administration in November 2022, the minister of youth and sports in the Perikatan Nasional (PN) administration under former prime minister Muhyiddin Yassin from March 2020 to the collapse of the PN administration in August 2021 and the member of parliament (MP) for Kepala Batas from the retirement of 5th and former prime minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi as the MP from politics in May 2013 to his electoral defeat in November 2022. He is also a member and division chief of Kepala Batas of the Supreme Council of the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO), a component party of the BN coalition and one of the only two Penang BN and UMNO MLAs alongside MLA for Sungai Acheh Rashidi Zinol. He has also served as chief of the Elections Department of UMNO since March 2023. He is an ethnic Malay of mixed Indian descent.


== Early and political career ==
Before entering Parliament, Reezal worked in the bank sector. Reezal took over Abdullah as the party's division head of Kepala Batas and as the Barisan Nasional (BN) candidate for the parliamentary seat. Reezal won the seat in the 2013 Malaysian general election while defeated a candidate from the Malaysian Islamic Party (PAS) by 4,176 majority of the votes. In October 2013, he was elected to Supreme Council of UMNO, the highest-ranking body of the party. In a cabinet reshuffle on 28 July 2015, Reezal was picked as Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs by former prime minister Najib Razak. Despite winning the majority to defend his seat in his parliamentary constituency, Reezal lost his cabinet post following the results of the 2018 Malaysian general election. At the 2023 Penang state election, he alongside Rashidi Zinol
are the only Malay representatives in the PH-BN Unity Government elected from the mainland Seberang Perai part of Penang.


== Controversy ==
On 29 August 2015, Reezal intimidated Malaysians participating in the Bersih 4 demonstrations abroad that the Foreign Ministry would gather their information for eventual legal action against them, without even citing which law the citizen abroad violated.


== Personal life ==
After first wife Ismalina Ismail and second wife Sharifah Norhaslinda which once filed for divorce with Reezal but retracted.


== Election results ==


== Honours ==
 Pahang
 Knight Grand Companion of the Order of Sultan Ahmad Shah of Pahang (SSAP) – Dato' Sri (2008)
 Knight Companion of the Order of the Crown of Pahang (DIMP) – Dato' (2006)
 Penang
 Commander of the Order of the Defender of State (DGPN) – Dato' Seri (2023)


== See also ==
Kepala Batas (federal constituency)
Bertam (state constituency)


== References ==

Bah Bill Abuzar Mamadou (born 8 September 2001) is a Singaporean professional footballer who plays as a defender for Singapore Premier League club Balesier Khalsa.
Primarily a centre-back, Bill is also capable of playing either as a full-back or midfielder. He is the son of former footballer Bah Mamadou.


== Club career ==


=== Lion City Sailors ===
In 2019, Bill was promoted to the Home United senior team and played a total of 3 matches for the club for the 2019 season.


==== Loan to Young Lions ====
While serving the compulsory National Service, Bill joined the Young Lions on loan for two years from 2020 to 2021.


==== Return to Lion City Sailors ====
Bill returned to his parent club which is currently privatised and revamp as Lion City Sailors after his completion from National service commitments. He made his season debut against Tanjong Pagar United in a 7–0 at the Jalan Besar Stadium on 13 August 2022 for their second big-margin win for the season. For the match against Albirex Niigata (S), Harris was suspended and Pedro was injured for the match, which resulted in Bill starting the 1st of many matches for the season.


==== Loan back to Young Lions ====
On 21 February 2025, it was announced that Bill would rejoin Young Lions on a second stint on loan for the remainder of the 2024–25 season to get more playing time. Bill made a total of 11 appearances for the club, 8 in the league and 3 in the Singapore Cup.


=== Nakhon Ratchasima ===
Following the expiry of this contract with Lion City Sailors, Bill joined Thai League 1 side Nakhon Ratchasima on 14 June 2025.


== International career ==
Bill is eligible to represent Singapore or Mali due to his dad native origins. He represents Singapore Under-23 team in the 2023 Merlion Cup, 2023 SEA Games and the 2024 AFC U-23 Asian Cup qualification.


== Personal life ==
Bill is the son of former footballer and S.League legend, Bah Mamadou. He is of African descent through his father who was born in Mali. His dad formerly played for S.League clubs including Gombak United, Balestier Khalsa, and Woodlands Wellington.


== Career statistics ==


=== Club ===
As of match played 18 April 26

Notes

Young Lions are ineligible for qualification to AFC competitions in their respective leagues.


=== International ===


==== U23 International caps ====


== Honours ==


=== Club ===


==== Lion City Sailors ====
Singapore Cup: 2023
Singapore Community Shield: 2022, 2024


== References ==

The Three Obediences and Four Virtues (Chinese: 三從四德; pinyin: Sāncóng Sìdé) is a set of moral principles and social code of behavior for maiden and married women in East Asian Confucianism, especially in ancient and imperial China. Women were to obey their fathers, husbands, and sons, and to be modest and moral in their actions and speech.


== Terminology ==
The two terms ("three obediences" and "four virtues") first appeared in the Book of Etiquette and Ceremonial and in the Rites of Zhou respectively, which codified the protocol for an elegant and refined culture for Chinese civilization. The protocol was originally meant to define the various parts of a harmonious society and was not intended as a rule book. This code had a strong impact on ancient and imperial China. It went on to influence other East Asian civilizations, such as Japan and Korea, and prescribed East Asian social and philosophical thought even into the twentieth century.


== Three Feminine Obediences ==
The Three Obediences instruct that a woman is obligated not to act on her own initiatives and must submissively obey or follow:

her father at home, before getting married (未嫁从父; Wèijiàcóngfù; or 在家从父; Zàijiācóngfù)
her husband after getting married (既嫁从夫; Jìjiàcóngfū; or 出嫁从夫; Chūjiàcóngfū)
her sons in widowhood after her husband's death (夫死从子; Fūsǐcóngzǐ)


== Four Feminine Virtues ==
The Four Feminine Virtues are: 

Feminine Conduct (婦德; Fùdé)
Feminine Speech (婦言; Fùyán)
Feminine Comportment (婦容; Fùróng)
Feminine Works (婦功; Fùgōng)
Ban Zhao (49–120 CE), the first known female Chinese historian, elaborated on these in her treatise Lessons for Women (Chinese: 女誡; pinyin: Nǚjiè; Wade–Giles: Nuchieh):

Speaking about these four, woman's virtue requires neither unparalleled talents nor exceeding brilliance; woman's speech requires neither rhetorical eloquence nor sharp words; woman's appearance requires neither a beautiful nor a splendid look or form; woman's work demands no unsurpassable skills.Exhibit tranquility (you 幽 [/ qing 清]), unhurried composure (xian 閒/閑), chastity (zhen 貞), and quietude (jing 靜). Safeguard the integrity (jie 節) of regulations. Keep things in an orderly manner. Guard one's action with a sense of shame. In movement and rest, it is always done in proper measure. This is what is meant by woman's virtue. Choose words [carefully] (ze ci 擇辭) when speaking. Never utter slanderous words. Speak only when the time is right; then, others will not dislike one's utterances. This is what is meant by woman's speech. Wash (guan wan 盥浣) clothes that are dusty and soiled, and keep one's clothing and accessories always fresh and clean. Bathe regularly, and keep one's body free from filth and disgrace. This is what is meant by woman's bearing. Concentrate on one's weaving and spinning. Love no silly play nor laughter. Prepare wine and food neatly and orderly to offer to the guests. This is what is meant by woman's work.


== See also ==
Three Fundamental Bonds and Five Constant Virtues
Chbab srey - Cambodian traditional code of conduct for women
Good Wife, Wise Mother


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Kelleher, M. Theresa (2005). "San-ts'ung ssu-te". In Taylor, Rodney L.; Choy, Howard Y.F. (eds.). The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Confucianism. Vol. 2 N-Z. New York: The Rosen Publishing Group. p. 496. ISBN 9780823940813.
Knapp, Keith (2015). "Sancong side 三从四德 (Threefold obedience and four virtues)". In Yao Xinzhong (ed.). Encyclopedia of Confucianism. Oxon: Routledge. ISBN 9781317793489.

Paul Shaw (born 4 October 1965) is an Australian former professional rugby league footballer who played in the 1980s and 1990s.  He played for Manly-Warringah and Gold Coast in the New South Wales Rugby League (NSWRL) competition and for Salford in England.


== Background ==
Shaw played junior rugby league for Wellington in the New South Wales country competition before signing with Manly.


== Playing career ==
Shaw made his first grade debut for Manly against South Sydney in Round 12 1986 at Brookvale Oval. Shaw mainly played from the bench in 1986 and 1987 as an understudy to Des Hasler.
Shaw played 12 times for Manly in 1987 as the club reached the grand final against the Canberra Raiders. Manly-Warringah went on to win the premiership 18-8 after leading for the entire match with Shaw coming off the bench. The grand final was also the last one to be played at the Sydney Cricket Ground.
In 1988, Shaw signed with English club Salford and played with them during the off season in Australia. Shaw was man of the match in Salford's 1988 Lancashire Cup final defeat.  In 1990, Shaw signed with the Gold Coast Seagulls becoming a regular starter in a struggling side. Shaw's final season at the Gold Coast in 1991 ended with the club finishing last on the table and claiming the wooden spoon. Shaw played 14 games during that season which were all losses.
In 1994, Shaw returned to first grade rugby league in 1994 and played in one game for Manly against the Parramatta Eels. This would be his final game before retiring. In 1996 Shaw played for the Aboriginal team in the World Rugby League Sevens Tournament.


== References ==

Shashmurka (Russian: Шашмурка) is a rural locality (a village) in Lezhnevsky District, Ivanovo Oblast, Russia. Population: 20 (2010 census);  


== Geography ==
This rural locality is located 2 kilometres (1.2 mi) from Lezhnevo (the district's administrative centre), 23 kilometres (14 mi) from Ivanovo (capital of Ivanovo Oblast) and 229 kilometres (142 mi) from Moscow. Gulikha is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

This is a list of fictional dogs in animation, and is subsidiary to the list of fictional dogs. It is a collection of various notable dogs that are featured in animated works including traditional animation, stop-motion animation, or CGI/computer animation.


== References ==

Désirée Leupold (born 11 November 1972) is an Austrian former professional tennis player.
Leupold played on the professional tour in the 1990s and reached a best singles ranking of 375 in the world. She featured in four WTA Tour main draws as a doubles player, otherwise spending her career on the ITF Circuit.


== ITF finals ==


=== Singles: 2 (0–2) ===


=== Doubles: 5 (0–5) ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Désirée Leupold at the Women's Tennis Association 
Désirée Leupold at World Tennis

Alberto Rujana Perdomo (Hebrew: אלברט רוחנה, Arabic: ألبرتو روجانا; Alberto Rujanah; born 29 March 1955) is a Lebanese writer, athlete and soccer coach of Jewish-Syrian descent. He is a nationalized Colombian.


== Trajectory ==


=== Biography ===
His family is  Syrian -  Lebanese made up of his parents and 12 siblings, who in search of a better future in the mid  50's decided to emigrate to Colombia.
They came to the coffee country by boat crossing the entire ocean from their hometown Beirut to the city of Barranquilla. In Colombia they took another boat crossing the Magdalena River to the city of Neiva. Upon arrival, they changed their surnames to "Rujana Perdomo" and continued with their high school studies at the technical college.


=== Academic training ===
Alberto is studying  physical education, recreation and sport at the Universidad Surcolombiana. Later he specialized as a soccer technical director in Italy where he did his practices in the AC Milan youth teams.


=== Debut with Millonarios FC ===
Before finishing his university studies, he was contacted by the DT of  Millonarios of that time Gabriel Ochoa Uribe who, seeing that he was an outstanding student in all sports, decided to give him the opportunity to prove himself with the ambassador team, with whom he only played 1 professional game in the six months he was there in the position of right winger.


== Managerial career ==
Rujana studied around six months in Italy, with teams as AC Milan and Internazionale. The first professional team in which he worked as manager was Atlético Huila, team with which won the 1992 Categoría Primera B season in his first year at the club. On 1999, he becomes manager of Peruvian club Unión Minas. For the 2001, he returns to Colombia, where becomes manager of Real Cartagena, and the next year is hired by Unión Atlético Maracaibo of Venezuela.
In July 2010, he becomes manager of Salvadoran club C.D. FAS, but is fired three months later. In July 2012, he is contracted by the recently founded Categoría Primera B club Llaneros F.C., however he resigned in October 2013.


== Personal life ==
Rujana was born in Beirut, Lebanon, from Syrian-Lebanese parents. From a family of 12 children, they moved to Vegalarga, a town in Huila. There, they Hispanicized their names and changed their surnames Rujana Perdomo. Rujana is a graduate of the South Colombian University, where he studied Licenciatura en Educación Básica, con énfasis en Educación Física, Recreación y Deportes (Bachelor of Primary Education with emphasis on Physical Education, Recreation and Sports).


== Honours ==
Atlético Huila

Primera B: 1992


== Managerial statistics ==
As of 22 October 2013


== Books ==
Rujana, Alberto. Cómo llegar al pressing –un sistema para no dejar pensar–.
Rujana, Alberto. Los espacios en la zona pressing.
Rujana, Alberto. Método y eficiencia en el fútbol.
Rujana, Alberto. Juegos aplicados a la zona.
Rujana, Alberto. El fútbol que no sabemos.
Source: 


== References ==


== External links ==
Profile in DIMAYOR

The Ultra-High Temperature Reactor Experiment (UHTREX) was an experimental gas-cooled nuclear reactor run at Los Alamos National Laboratory between 1959 and 1971 as part of research into reducing the cost of nuclear power. Its purpose was to test and compare the advantages of using a simple fuel against the disadvantages of a contaminated cooling loop. It first achieved full power in 1969.
The experiment was a spin-off from Project Rover, intended to develop a nuclear thermal rocket.


== Reactor core design ==
The UHTREX core was composed of a vertical hollow rotating cylinder (turret) constructed of solid graphite.  The cylinder was 70 in. OD x 23 in. ID x 39 in. high.  The core had 312 fuel channels. The channels were equally spaced radially around the core at 15 degree intervals arranged in 13 separate layers of 24 channels each.  Each channel held up to 4 fuel elements and extended completely through to the inside of the cylinder.  The core could be refueled remotely while at full power.  Refueling involved rotating the core to the channel containing the element requiring replacement and pushing in a new element.  The used element would be pushed out into the center and fall to the base of the reactor to be collected.  At full power the reactor used up 1 to 6 fuel elements per day depending on enrichment and porosity of the fuel element.   It produced 3MW of thermal energy.


== Advantages ==
A typical nuclear reactor prevents the coolant medium from directly contacting the fuel pellets either by cladding the fuel pellets, sealing the fuel pellets inside a fuel rod or running the coolant through separate piping.  This prevents contamination of the cooling medium.  One of the disadvantages of a sealed fuel assembly includes buildup of fission products inside the fuel element.  Some of these products poison the reaction ultimately leading to poor efficiency well before a significant portion of the fuel is used up.  At this time the reactor requires re-fueling.  Keeping the fuel and coolant separate can present significant design challenges as well.  For example, the metal tubing required to do so cannot be operated at temperatures above its melting point which is generally significantly lower than the fuel pellet.  This lowers the maximum theoretical thermal efficiency of the reactor.
The UHTREX used un-clad porous carbon extruded fuel elements each shaped like a long hollow cylinder.  The fuel elements were manufactured by vacuum impregnating the porous carbon cylinders with aqueous uranyl nitrate solution then air drying and baking them in a furnace ultimately producing a uranium oxide coating tightly held in a porous graphite matrix.  This fuel was expected to be substantially less expensive to manufacture than other types of fuel at the time.  The primary advantages of this type of fuel was that the porosity of the pellet in addition to the high temperatures achievable would allow most of the poisons created by the fission products to migrate out of the fuel.  The poisons would then be carried away by the coolant stream for eventual filtering out and removal.  This allows a higher percentage of fuel to be burned up before the pellet needed replacement (up to 50%).


== Disadvantages ==
The major disadvantage to porous reactor fuel is that the entire primary cooling loop including all the pumps, compressors and heat exchangers would become highly contaminated with fission products. The high contamination level precludes being able to open the reactor vessel for the eventual refuelling.  Therefore, the reactor was designed for remote online refuelling. The potential for wider contamination from a coolant leak would pose a significant danger to personnel and the environment.


== Specifications ==
UHTREX had following specifications:

Fuel - highly enriched uranium
Rated power - 3 MW (thermal)
Core construction material - graphite
Moderator - graphite
Reactor vessel - carbon steel sphere 13 ft. 2 in. diameter 1.75 inches thickness.
Fuel channels - 312 channels.  Each one is 1.1 in. ID, 23.5 in. long and holds up to 4 fuel elements.
Fuel element - 1 in. OD, 0.5 in. ID and 5.5 in. long (25.4 mm x 12.7 mm x 139.7 mm).
Core power density - 1.3 W/cc
Fuel utilization - up to 50%.
Coolant - helium at 500 psi (3.45 MPa)
Coolant temperature - inlet 1600 °F, Outlet 2400 °F (871 °C and 1316 °C).
Coolant flow rate - 10,250 pounds per hour (1.294 kg/s)
where ID and OD are the inner and outer diameter, respectively.


== See also ==
Omega West Reactor
Clementine reactor


== References ==


== External links ==
Eligibility Assessment of TA-52-1 and TA-52-11: The Ultra-High Temperature Reactor Experiment (UHTREX) Complex—Detailed historical and core information about UHTREX

Charles Morgan Robinson Morgan, 1st Baron Tredegar (10 April 1792 – 16 April 1875), known as Sir Charles Morgan Robinson Morgan, 3rd Baronet from 1846 to 1859, was a Welsh Whig peer and a member of the House of Lords.


== Early life ==
Morgan was born on 10 April 1792. He was the eldest son of Lt.-Col. Sir Charles Morgan, 2nd Baronet, and his wife, the former Mary Margaret Stoney. Among his younger brothers were George Gould Morgan, MP for Brecon, Charles Augustus Samuel Morgan, and the antiquarian Charles Octavius Swinnerton Morgan. Among his sisters were Maria (wife of Francis Miles Milman), Charlotte (wife of George Rodney, 3rd Baron Rodney), and Angelina (wife of Sir Hugh Owen, 2nd Baronet).
His maternal grandfather was Capt. George Stoney of the Royal Navy. His paternal grandparents were Sir Charles Morgan, 1st Baronet (originally Charles Gould) and the former Jane Morgan (daughter of Judge Advocate Thomas Morgan). His great aunt Jane married the industrialist Samuel Homfray.
He was educated at Harrow School, Westminster School and Christ Church, Oxford (1811).


== Career ==

He was first elected Member of Parliament (MP) for Brecon in 1812 and was re-elected in 1830 and 1835. Upon his father's death in 1846, he succeeded the Morgan Baronetcy, created for his grandfather in 1792.
He served in the Glamorgan Yeomanry and later in the militia (the Royal Glamorgan Light Infantry, commissioned as Major on 3 April 1849), and was appointed High Sheriff of Monmouthshire for 1821–22 and  High Sheriff of Brecknockshire for 1850–51. He was created Baron Tredegar, of Tredegar in the County of Monmouth on 16 April 1859 and was Lord Lieutenant of Brecknockshire from 1866 until his death.
He served as chairman of the Monmouthshire Railway and Canal Company, chairman of the Alexandra Dock Company. He also served as president of the Royal Agricultural Society and president of Equitable Life Assurance Society from 1846 until his death in 1875.


== Personal life ==

In late 1827, Morgan married Rosamund Mundy, the daughter of Maj.-Gen. Godfrey Basil Meynell Mundy and Sarah Brydges Rodney. Together, they lived at Tredegar House, where he was a noted breeder of shorthorn cattle, and had five sons and six daughters, including:

Charles Rodney Morgan (1828–1854), MP for Brecon.
Hon. Rosamond Marion Morgan (1830–1883), who married Sir William Style, 9th Baronet, in 1848.
Godfrey Charles Morgan, 1st Viscount Tredegar (1830–1913), an MP for Breconshire who never married.
Hon. Selina Maria Morgan (d. 1922), who married David Robertson Williamson, nephew of David Williamson, Lord Balgray, in 1853.
Hon. Frederick Courtenay Morgan (1834–1909), MP for Monmouthshire and South Monmouthshire who married Charlotte Anne Williamson, daughter of Charles Alexander Williamson of Lawers.
Hon. Frances Henrietta Morgan (c. 1835–1887), who married Sir George Forestier-Walker, 2nd Baronet, son of Sir George Walker, 1st Baronet, in 1854.
Hon. Ellen Sarah Morgan (c. 1836–1916), who married Lt.-Col. Henry Gore Lindsay, chief constable of Glamorgan, in 1856.
Hon. Georgiana Charlotte Morgan (c. 1839–1886), who married Lord Francis Conyngham, a son of Francis Conyngham, 2nd Marquess Conyngham, in 1857. After his death she married Lt.-Col. Alan George Chichester (a grandson of the 1st Baron Templemore), in 1882.
Hon. Arthur John Morgan (1840–1900), who died unmarried.
Hon. George Gould Morgan (1845–1907), who died unmarried.
Hon. Mary Anna Morgan (d. 1924), who married Robert Devereux, 16th Viscount Hereford, in 1863.
Lord Tredegar died on 16 April 1875 and was succeeded by his second son Godfrey as his eldest son, Charles, predeceased him unmarried and without legitimate male issue.


=== Descendants ===
Through his daughter Ellen, he was a grandfather of Lt.-Col. Morgan Lindsay, Maj.-Gen. George Mackintosh Lindsay, Lionel Arthur Lindsay, who was also chief constable of Glamorgan.
Through his son Frederic, Morgan was a grandfather of Courtenay and Frederic Morgan, later the 3rd and 5th Barons Tredegar respectively, and great-grandfather of Evan and John Morgan, the 4th and 6th respective Barons Tredegar.


== References ==


== External links ==
Sir Charles Morgan Robinson Morgan, 3rd Bt, 1st Baron Tredegar (1792 - 1875) at National Trust Collections
Sir Charles Robinson Morgan (1792–1875), 1st Baron Tredegar at ArtUK

"Runnin' Out of Air" is a song recorded by American country music duo Love and Theft. It was released in November 2012 as the second single from their second studio album, Love and Theft. The song was written by Matt Jenkins, Shane McAnally and Josh Osborne.


== Critical reception ==
Billy Dukes of Taste of Country gave the song four-and-a-half stars out of five, comparing it to "a busted piñata that just keeps giving sweet goodness". Dukes wrote that "even traditionalists won’t be able to keep from tapping a boot when the first hit of the snare drum melts into a funky guitar lick that sets the mood for what’s to come. […] Add guitar, piano, mandolin and effortless harmonies, and you have a single that bursts out of the speakers." He predicted that "by embracing everything great about artists like Rascal Flatts and Taylor Swift while adding their own unique sounds, they’ve created a single radio will still be playing years from now." In his review of the album, Matt Bjorke of Roughstock wrote that the song "feels like another potential hit with the moody, swampy melody being accentuated with mandolins and b-3 in Josh Leo's production mix a long with a little cow bell". Bjorke felt that it was "a nice play on love lost and the sadness that can accompany those emotions".


== Music video ==
The music video was directed by Mason Dixon and premiered in November 2012. It features the band performing in a club to an audience of mainly female fans, and each member separately in a different darkened room being seduced by 3 women each. 


== Chart performance ==
"Runnin' Out of Air" debuted at number 60 on the U.S. Billboard Country Airplay chart for the week of November 24, 2012. It also debuted at number 50 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Songs chart for the week of February 2, 2013.


== References ==

Carolyn Owen Coates (April 29, 1927 – March 27, 2005)  was an American stage, film and television actress. Noted for portraying formidable women, Coates earned a Theatre World Award for her performance as Hecuba in The Trojan Women.


== Early life and career ==
A native of Oklahoma City, Coates was the younger of two daughters born to Jessica Owen and Glenn Clinton Coates. Her parents soon divorced, however, and, as noted in a 1973 interview, subsequent remarriages led to a decidedly unsettled pre-adolescence. As Coates recalled, "I was in 10 different schools before 10th grade." The resulting anxiety made her all the more appreciative upon discovering that "[t]he theater is like a family, like a home—all of the things I missed as a child."
After finally settling in Santa Monica, Coates studied acting at UCLA. There, she gained valuable experience, in roles such as Shakespeare's Juliet, Margaret in Thomas Dekker's The Shoemaker's Holiday (starring opposite a young William Schallert), and Cybel in Eugene O'Neill's The Great God Brown. During this period, Coates also appeared in summer stock with the Bolton Landing Players, earning kudos as Millie in Frederick Jackson's The Bishop Misbehaves, and as Aunt Connie in Mark Reed's Yes, My Darling Daughter.
In 1954, Coates appeared as Agatha in the American premiere of Jean Giraudoux's Electra, staged at the Henry Street Playhouse in New York's Greenwich Village. The following year, she and erstwhile Pygmalion co-star James Noble were wed. Shortly thereafter, and continuing for roughly six years, they became featured performers in Paul J. Curtis's American Mime Theatre.
In 1965, her portrayal of Hecuba in Euripides' The Trojan Women earned Coates a Theatre World Award. In December of that year she was narrated "Sibelius: A Symphony for Finland," a 90-minute TV documentary commemorating the composer's centennial, which aired on NET's series Festival of the Arts.
In May 1967, Coates co-starred with Martin Sheen, Eugene Roche, Frederick Rolf and Eleanor Phelps on The Catholic Hour, in a series of four episodes addressing the question, "Is God dead?"
In 1985, Coates undertook what would later be termed, variously, a nine-year sabbatical or retirement, to volunteer in hospitals and on the phones for AIDS Project Los Angeles and the Gay Men's Health Crisis.

In 2001, New Haven's Long Wharf Theater hosted what would prove to be the actress's swan song, as Coates portrayed Gladys in Kenneth Lonergan's The Waverly Gallery. Hartford Courant critic Malcolm Johnson writes:This portrait of the mental disintegration of 85-year-old Gladys Green, acted by the tiny Carolyn Coates with shifts from lucidity and humor to crazy jumbles of words, will break the heart of anyone who has ever suffered through the decline of an aged parent or relative. [...] Coates' sometimes playful, sometimes dithering, occasionally volatile performance, sweet, charged with nostalgia and a confusion complicated by deafness, dominates Tillinger's production.


== Personal life ==
Having first met her future husband in 1951, playing Eliza Doolittle to his Henry Higgins in a summer stock production of Pygmalion in Worcester, Massachusetts, Coates married actor James Noble in 1955. They had one child, a daughter.
On March 27, 2005, Coates died of cancer at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Connecticut, survived by her husband and daughter. Her remains are interred at the family plot in Muskogee, Oklahoma, alongside those of her husband.


== TV appearances ==


== Filmography ==


== Playlist ==


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Carolyn Coates at the Internet Broadway Database
Carolyn Coates at IMDb

For Her People is a 1914 British silent drama film directed by Laurence Trimble and starring Florence Turner, Rex Davis and Franklyn Bellamy.


== Cast ==
Florence Turner as Joan
Clifford Pembroke as Leslie Calder
Rex Davis as Tom
Franklyn Bellamy as Henry Calder
Herbert Dunsey as William Arnold
John MacAndrews as Greengrocer


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Low, Rachael. The History of the British Film 1914-1918. Routledge, 2005.


== External links ==
For Her People at IMDb

Bhit Ja Bhittai (Sindhi: ڀٽ جا ڀٽائي) is a popular Sindhi devotional song praising the Sufi saint Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai, who lived on the sand dunes of Sindh and who is widely considered to be the greatest poet of the Sindhi language. It has been sung by many Sindhi artists, such as Jalal Chandio, Mai Bhagi, Suhrab Faqir, and others as well. 
More recently this song was presented in a new way by the Pakistani artist Shani Arshad. "Bhit ja Bhittai is not only the folk song but also the Qalam", Shani said. This song became very famous. Initially the song was a 40-second track advertisement for Telenor, then Shani decided to launch a full-length edition of the song.


== References ==

Make Me a Star may refer to:

Make Me a Star (film), a 1932 American pre-Code romantic comedy film
Make Me a Star (album), a 1979 album by The Square
Make Me a Star (song), a song by KC and the Sunshine Band

Qaleh Sangar (Persian: قلعه سنگر, also Romanized as Qal‘eh Sangar; also known as Qalā Sangar) is a village in Kushk Rural District, Abezhdan District, Andika County, Khuzestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 117, in 24 families.


== References ==

The Yorkshire Wolds are a group of low hills in East and North Yorkshire, England. They are the northernmost chalk hills in Great Britain and contain the northernmost chalk stream in Europe, the Gypsey Race.
On the western edge, the Wolds rise to an escarpment which then drops sharply to the Vale of York. The highest point on the escarpment is Bishop Wilton Wold (also known as Garrowby Hill), which is 807 feet (246 m) above sea level. To the north, on the other side of the Vale of Pickering, lie the North York Moors, and to the east the hills flatten into the plain of Holderness. The hills are separated by many dry dales, formed during the last ice age and where many springs rise. 
The largest town in the Wolds is Driffield, with other places including Pocklington, Thixendale and Kilham, the original 'capital' of the Wolds. The highest village on the Yorkshire Wolds is Fridaythorpe at 550 feet (170 m) above sea level. The market town of Beverley lies on the eastern slopes, along with the village of Molescroft.
On 8 October 2024, Natural England launched a statutory and public consultation for proposed plans to designate part of the Yorkshire Wolds as an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB).


== Geology ==
The hills are formed from a series of pure marine limestones formed during the Cretaceous period, known collectively as the Chalk Group. The outcrop has the form of an arc running north from Ferriby on the Humber estuary west of Hull northwards past Market Weighton to the Malton area where it swings eastwards towards the North Sea coast between Filey and Bridlington. Here the Chalk forms cliffs, most notably at Speeton Cliffs, Bempton Cliffs and Flamborough; Flamborough Headland is designated a Heritage Coast. To the south of the Humber Gap, where the chalk provides stable footings for the Humber Bridge, the same formations continue as the Lincolnshire Wolds. The rock succession in stratigraphic order i.e. youngest/uppermost first, is this:

White Chalk Subgroup
Flamborough Chalk Formation
Burnham Chalk formation
Welton Chalk Formation
Grey Chalk Subgroup
Ferriby Chalk Formation
Hunstanton Chalk Formation
The thin Hunstanton Chalk and Ferriby Chalk formations form the lower parts of the west and north facing Wolds scarp but it is the overlying Welton Chalk Formation which forms the greater part of these slopes. The Burnham Chalk and Flamborough Chalk formations characterise the incised plateau surface and easterly dip-slope down to the North Sea coast. In the north the Chalk rises above the Speeton Clay Formation which underlies The Carrs and above the Ampthill Clay and Kimmeridge Clay of the Vale of Pickering. Further south and particularly to the south of Market Weighton, the lowermost part of the scarp and the vale to the west is formed from a great variety of Jurassic age strata. A fault which downthrows the rock strata to the west effectively truncates the Wolds at Hunmanby in the northeast, though the offset chalk outcrop continues east to the coast at Speeton Cliffs. The numerous dry valleys cut into the dip-slope are typically floored by head, locally derived clay, silt, sand and gravel. Unlike surrounding areas, the Wolds are free from glacial till as, other than along the coastal zone, the area was not inundated by ice during the last ice age.


== Natural history ==
Most of the area takes the form of an elevated, gently rolling plateau, cut by numerous deep, steep-sided, flat-bottomed valleys of glacial origin. The chalk formation of the hills provides exceptionally good drainage, with the result that most of these valleys are dry; indeed, surface water is quite scarce throughout the Wolds. Typically the valleys are hard to see from above, creating the visual impression that the landscape is much flatter than is actually the case. The unusual topography results in an "upside-down" farming system – livestock (mostly sheep and cows) graze the valleys, with the hills above used for crops.


== Climate ==
Located in the northern part of England, UK, the Yorkshire Wolds have a temperate maritime climate which is dominated by the passage of mid latitude depressions. The weather is very changeable from day to day and the warming influence of the Gulf Stream makes the region mild for its latitude. The higher ground of the Wolds results in their being slightly cooler than the surrounding lowland areas and drifting snow is a problem in winter. The average total annual rainfall is 729 mm (28.7 in) with rain falling on average 128 days of the year. January is usually the coldest month and December the wettest. The warmest month is August and the driest is February.


== Areas and notable settlements ==


=== Northern Wolds and Flamborough Head ===
The Wolds reach the sea at Flamborough Head, where the chalk cliffs plunge over 430 feet (130 m) to the North Sea. To the south of Flamborough lies the resort town of Bridlington and to the north the sheer cliffs at Speeton overlook Filey Bay. Inland the high Wolds scarp overlooks the Vale of Pickering.
The so-called Great Wold Valley traverses the area. It is occupied by a small brook called the Gypsey Race. This brook empties its waters into Bridlington Harbour. The valley of the Gypsey Race turns south and then east in two right angle bends, one at Burton Fleming, the other at Rudston. In dry conditions the brook frequently dries up in parts of its course and re-emerges downstream.
Another notable feature of this area of the Wolds is Danes Dyke, a great ditch extending across Flamborough Head. The dyke consists of double ramparts, a ditch which is about 20 yards (18 m) wide and 20 feet (6 m) deep and a further rampart which rises to 18 feet (5 m) above ground level. The origin of this feature is obscure, although it is certainly not Danish.
Bempton Cliffs is a seabird colony and an RSPB nature reserve. It is home to the only colony of gannets in mainland England, 10% of the UK's resident kittiwakes, and a colony of the locally endangered Atlantic puffin.

Notable settlements include Flamborough village, North Landing and South Landing on Flamborough Headland. The village of Reighton which extends down the steep scarp face of the Wolds has many buildings made of the local chalk. Hunmanby was once a large market town and its buildings are centred on the old triangular market place.
A series of villages lies at the foot of the northern scarp of the Wolds each having a parish which contains an area of chalk hillside, fertile benches and marshy land on the Vale of Pickering.
Fordon consists only of a few farms and a small church, some parts of which are of Norman construction. Wold Newton and Burton Fleming lie in the Great Wold Valley. A large round barrow called Willy Howe (Howe, a topographic name from Middle English, originated with the Old Norse word haugr meaning a small hill or a man-made mound or barrow.) lies between Wold Newton and Thwing. At Rudston Britain's tallest standing stone can be seen in the church yard. Boynton Hall was the home of William Strickland who is reputed to have brought the turkey to England.
On the Wold top there are many traces of pre-historic peoples such as the barrows at Willerby Wold and Sharpe Howes above Folkton.


=== Driffield area ===

On the seaward dip slope of the Wolds there is a series of villages extending from Bridlington to Driffield. These mark the spring line and the natural boundary between the chalk Wolds and the clay of Holderness. Driffield lies central to the crescentic shape of the Wolds area and since all of the Wolds are within easy reach it has become an important market town and is known as the Capital of the Wolds.
Villages of note include: Nafferton, which lies just off the A166 road and is the site of a mill pond fed by springs, Wansford to the south, lies on the Driffield canal and it has a church built by Sir Tatton Sykes in 1868. Close to Ruston Parva is Danes Graves, an archaeological site consisting of some 500 small round barrows marking Iron Age burials at least one of which yielded a corpse buried with a chariot and harness. Burton Agnes contains the ruins of a manor house dating from 1170 AD and a hall and gatehouse of the Elizabethan period. Kilham was a prosperous market town in the Medieval period but was replaced by Driffield in the 19th century as the Capital of the Wolds. In this area there is a long continuity of settlement with an Iron Age cemetery, the Roman road now known as Woldgate and an Anglian cemetery all in close proximity. Sledmere village has a uniformity of aspect which reveals its history as an 'estate' village. Close by is Sledmere House, the home of the Sykes family since the 18th century.


=== Southern Wolds ===
In the south the Wolds are at their narrowest. Here they lie between the plain of Holderness to the east and the Vale of York to the west. The Humber Estuary cuts through the chalk formation leaving the Yorkshire Wolds to the north and the Lincolnshire Wolds to the south. In Roman times the estuary was crossed by a ford. The Humber Bridge now spans the estuary. This area has fine agricultural land and many villages, notable amongst which are: Walkington with its village pond and church of All Hallows: Bishop Burton which lies in a green hollow and has 19th century whitewashed cottages close to a village green with a large pond: Cherry Burton sits in a shallow valley in the shadow of the St Michael's and All Angels Church: Skidby which has an intact working windmill dating from 1821 which is now an agricultural museum. North Newbald is sited in a narrow valley on the western scarp of the Wolds and has a famous cruciform Norman church dedicated to St Nicholas. Beverley sits in the north-eastern corner of the Southern Wolds, with the common grazing lands of Swinemoor and the Figham Pastures being where the hills terminate, where extensive wetlands exist. The town is also home to the Beverley Minster which was founded, along with Beverley Grammar School, the oldest grammar school in the British Isles, by St John of Beverley in 700 AD. Beverley has been a sanctuary town since 978 AD, when King Athelstan visited the tomb of St John in St Mary's Church.
The village of Brantingham is home to Hull Ionians, a Rugby Union team who play in the Northern 1 league, the third tier of English Rugby Union. Beverley is home to both Beverley RUFC (who play in the Yorkshire Division One, the seventh tier of English Rugby Union) and Beverley Town Cricket Club (who play in the Yorkshire Premier League North Premier Division, the highest level of recreational cricket possible in England and Wales) .   


=== Central Wolds ===
The western scarp of the Wolds reaches its highest point at Garrowby Hill. Wooded dales occur along the scarp with small becks flowing down to the Vale of York below. The market towns of Pocklington and Market Weighton are sited between the wolds and the vale. Large parks and houses lie along the scarp from Garrowby Hall to Kilnwick Percy, Warter Priory and Londesborough Hall. Millington is situated within Millington Dale and the road leading along the brow of the dale is particularly scenic. The village of Kiplingcotes is the location for the annual Kiplingcotes Derby horse race, said to be the oldest horse race in England. The 499th event took place on 15 March 2018 but was reduced to a horse being led round the course.


=== Western Wolds ===
From Garrowby Hill northwards to Ganton the high scarp of the Wolds swings in a crescent to overlook the Vales of York and Pickering. Villages tend to be clustered along the scarp foot or in the upper part of the Great Wold Valley. Rillington is a village with a stream passing through and a nearby park at Scampston. Between the villages of West Knapton and East Knapton there is a hall and park, while south-east of the villages in Knapton Wood is Staple Howe, an Iron Age site. The twin villages of East and West Heslerton lie further along the A64 road. West Heslerton is a well known archaeological site, with artefacts from several eras having been recovered. Wharram Percy is one of the most notable deserted village sites in the UK.


== History and archaeology ==
The Wolds area is rich in archaeological remains. There is a profusion of Neolithic, Bronze Age and Romano-British sites extending across the entire Yorkshire Wolds area.
The availability of fertile chalk soils, good grazing and the light tree cover along with stone suitable for making tools made this area attractive to early Neolithic settlers.
Along with Wessex and Orkney, the Yorkshire Wolds is a key area for studying the development of the Neolithic period in the British Isles as it became a major focus for settlement in this era. Isolated farms rather than settlements of any size appear to have been the normal dwelling types however few have been located with any certainty and most evidence is of funerary sites and ritual monuments. Recently excavated long barrows at Fordon on Willerby Wold and at Kilham have been carbon dated to around 3700 BC. A well-known round barrow of this period is the monumental Duggleby Howe, at the western end of the Great Wolds Valley, partially excavated in 1890 by J.R. Mortimer. A henge monument of the Neolithic has been identified at Maidens Grave Rudston and the Rudston Monolith has also been assigned to this period. An extensive Neolithic ritual complex, the main elements of which are four large cursus monuments and a henge, is situated near the eastern end of the Great Wold Valley.
More than 1,400 Bronze Age round barrows, comprising one or more burials and accompanied by items of grave goods, are known to exist on the Yorkshire Wolds. They occur either in isolation or, more commonly, grouped together to form cemeteries. Many of these sites, although they have been reduced in size by repeated ploughing, still form upstanding and, in some cases, prominent features in the present-day landscape.
The Romans arrived in this area around 71 AD. From a base at Brough on the north bank of the Humber they established a road network with one branch towards York and another to Malton, both crossing the Wolds area. The settlements of the native Parisi were little disturbed by the Roman occupiers at first, but in later years they became Romanised, adopting the Roman material culture. There are villa sites on the Wolds at Rudston, Harpham, Brantingham, Welton and Wharram-le-Street.
Walkington Wold, near the village of Walkington in the southern area of the Wolds, is the site of an Anglo-Saxon execution cemetery, the only known example from northern England.
In 2014, two horse skeletons and the remains of a chariot dating back to the Iron Age were unearthed on a Pocklington building site.


== Culture and media ==
The writer Winifred Holtby who was born at Rudston lived in the area and described the Wolds as "fold upon fold of the encircling hills, piled rich and golden."
The Yorkshire Wolds Versatile Brass performs in local venues in the Yorkshire Wolds region.
David Hockney has featured the Yorkshire Wolds in many of his paintings that were shown at the Royal Academy in the exhibition 'A Bigger Picture' in the spring of 2012.
Yorkshire Wolds Way, a two-part BBC television documentary, first broadcast in January 2017, features a journey along the Yorkshire Wolds Way.


== Wolds Way ==
One of nine National Trails in England, the Yorkshire Wolds Way is a long-distance footpath which runs the length of the wolds from the Humber Bridge at Hessle to Filey on the coast. It is managed by Natural England.


== See also ==
The Weald
Yorkshire Dales


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Clensy, David (2007). Walking The Wolds Way. Lulu.com. ISBN 978-1-4303-1019-8.


== External links ==

Yorkshire Wolds Archived 19 April 2010 at the Wayback Machine
The Villages of The Yorkshire Wolds
Natural England.  NCA Profile: 27 Yorkshire Wolds
The Countryside Agency – Countryside Character Initiative – Yorkshire and the Humber – Yorkshire Wolds Archived 4 April 2003 at the Wayback Machine
The Wolds Archaeological Research Project

Mourvilles-Basses (French pronunciation: [muʁvil bas]; Occitan: Morvilas Bassas) is a commune in the Haute-Garonne department of southwestern France.


== Population ==


== See also ==
Communes of the Haute-Garonne department


== References ==

Kenzō Okuzaki (Japanese: 奥崎 謙三, Hepburn: Okuzaki Kenzō; 1 February 1920 – 16 June 2005) was a former Imperial Japanese Army soldier, writer, actor, anti-monarchist and anarchist. He was known for an attempted assault on Emperor Shōwa, and his starring role in the documentary The Emperor's Naked Army Marches On (1987).


== Biography ==
Kenzō Okuzaki was born on 1 February 1920 in Akashi, Hyōgo Prefecture to Shunzaburo Okuzaki (奥崎 俊三郎, Okuzaki Shunzaburo) and Waga (和賀). His family was affected by the Great Depression, and Okuzaki, after graduating elementary school in 1930, began working odd jobs at age 10. During this time, he became interested in Christianity.


=== Military service ===
In March 1941, Okuzaki was drafted into the Engineering Corps in Okayama, and was sent to Jiujiang in China for construction duties as well as occasional combat against Chinese troops. In January 1943, Okuzaki was transferred to 2nd Company, 36th Independent Engineering Regiment, and in the following month he was shipped to the naval base in Hansa Bay, in the Japanese-occupied Territory of New Guinea.
Okuzaki arrived at Hansa in April 1943, and his regiment was assigned to build an airfield at Alexishafen. Construction was completed within the following months, but the Japanese troops suffered from malaria and Allied bombing. In December, the troops abandoned the Alexishafen airfield and were ordered to retreat to Wewak, then further to Hollandia. During the retreat, which was described as a "long and desperate struggle for survival", Japanese troops were attacked by Allied forces, who were gaining foothold in the area.
Okuzaki was injured during the retreat and became greatly weakened. He became increasingly isolated from his fellow soldiers, both physically (Okuzaki was part of a reconnaissance patrol) and mentally, as he was noted to have "temperamental" and anti-authoritarian behavior. He reached Hollandia after 10 months, and decided to expose himself to the enemy so he could be killed, but he was captured by Allied troops instead. Okuzaki was one of the six survivors from his 1,200-men regiment to survive the retreat. Okuzaki and another man were the sole survivors of their 350-men company.
After his capture, Okuzaki spent the rest of the war as a prisoner of war in Australia. His final rank was private first class.


=== Post-war ===
After returning to Japan, Okuzaki continued to work in a series of odd jobs including as a coal miner and a factory worker. Eventually, Okuzaki found success selling car batteries, and in 1951 he opened a shop in Kobe where he sold car batteries and second-hand cars. In 1956, Okuzaki attacked and accidentally killed Nobuhara Kazuo (延原 一男, Kazuo Nobuhara), a con man who posed as a broker and made off with some of Okuzaki's investment. Okuzaki was arrested and charged with (intentional) murder. Okuzaki's lawyer advised him to plead guilty and express remorse in an attempt to lower the sentence, but Okuzaki refused, and received the maximum sentence of 10 years.
Okuzaki spent the next 10 years in solitary confinement in the Osaka Detention House, where he grew increasingly skeptical with Japan's legal and political system, as well as the Japanese monarchy's role in the post-war Japanese democracy. His political views grew to become a "mixture of utopian anarchism and a vaguely Christian religious idea." He participated in some activism while in prison, sending a telegram to the Minister of Justice asking for a suspension of capital punishment in Japan, attempting to argue in a legal action that the Japan Self-Defense Forces was unconstitutional and calling for the abolition of the monarchy.


=== Attempted attack on Emperor Shōwa ===
Okuzaki was released in August 1966, and continued his car batteries business. During this time, he began attaching banners to his business trucks. These included accusations of Emperor Shōwa being a war criminal, along with various antimilitarism and anti-authoritarian slogans. By December 1968, Okuzaki was contemplating a  "non-violent" action against the Emperor to call attention to his cause. He devised a plan where he would fire pachinko pinballs at Emperor Shōwa, knowing that it would most likely miss or only lightly injure the Emperor. He then planned to be arrested, and he could eventually argue for Emperor Shōwa's war responsibility in court and for the abolition of the monarchy. Okuzaki reasoned that "killing Hirohito per se would not solve the problem", though "Hirohito deserves capital punishment for his crime of driving hundreds of thousands of Japanese men to their death in war" and that he would not mind killing the Emperor "if that would bring truly eternal peace, freedom, and happiness to us."
On 2 January 1969, during the New Year's public opening of the Tokyo Imperial Palace, Okuzaki fired three pachinko pinballs with a slingshot at Emperor Shōwa, who was standing 26.5 metres (87 ft) away from Okuzaki: all three missed the Emperor. Okuzaki then shouted "Yamazaki, Shoot the Emperor with a pistol!" in an attempt to attract the police. (Yamazaki being the name of one of his deceased comrades in New Guinea.) He then fired one more pinball towards Emperor Shōwa: the pinball again missed the Emperor. The policemen, despite Okuzaki's shout, was unable to identify the preparator in the crowd. Okuzaki then turned himself in to one of the policemen. It is not known if Emperor Shōwa or his family were immediately aware of the attack.
The media reacted quickly to the news, describing Okuzaki as a man who suffered from paranoid personality disorder and amnesia with a criminal record of murder. His wartime background and experiences was not mentioned by the national newspapers with the exception of the Mainichi Shimbun. Okuzaki was sent to a psychiatric hospital for 2 months, where he was deemed mentally capable of standing trial.
The trial began in January, 1970. It was the first trial under the new Japanese constitution to personally involve the Emperor. However, no victim testimony or affidavit was obtained from Emperor Shōwa. In fact, the name of the victim (Hirohito) was never identified, and only the term "Emperor" was used during the trial.
During the trial, Okuzaki argued that Article 1 of the Constitution of Japan, concerning the Emperor's role, is unconstitutional. He also requested to cross-examine Emperor Shōwa, but was denied by the court. On 8 June 1970, Okuzaki was sentenced to one and a half years of imprisonment. Both Okuzaki and the prosecutors' office, who was looking for additional imprisonment, appealed to the Tokyo High Court. On 7 October 1970, the court maintained the ruling of the first trial, though they considered Okuzaki's time spent in detention awaiting and during trial (one and a half year), allowing Okuzaki to be released immediately. Upon his release, he continued to appeal to the Supreme Court, though the appeal was dismissed on 1 April 1971.


=== Royal pornography incident ===
In 1976, Okuzaki made fliers with pornographic cartoons depicting Emperor Shōwa, and tossed them off roofs of department stores, for which he was once again arrested and imprisoned for one year and two months at the Tokyo Detention House.
While in prison, Okuzaki unsuccessfully ran in the 1977 House of Councillors election in the House of Councillors national district. He was released in April 1978. In 1980 he again unsuccessfully ran in the 
House of Councillors election in the same district. In 1983, he unsuccessfully ran in the general election in the Hyogo 1st district.
In 1981, Okuzaki was arrested for plotting to kill then-former Prime Minister Kakuei Tanaka, but he was later released without a charge.


=== The Emperor's Naked Army Marches On ===

Okuzaki was introduced to documentary filmmaker Kazuo Hara through director Shōhei Imamura. Between 1982 and 1983, Okuzaki starred in the documentary film The Emperor's Naked Army Marches On by Hara, where he investigated the fate of two of his fallen comrades during the New Guinea campaign. By the end of the film, it was implied that they were executed by officers because they refused to participate in group cannibalism.
In March 1983, after bribing Indonesian authorities (access to New Guinea was barred due to the Papua conflict), Okuzaki and the documentary crew travelled to New Guinea for filming. On their departure, the footage was confiscated by an Indonesian officer at the airport. Following their return to Japan, the crew contacted the Japanese Foreign Ministry and attempted to retrieve the footage. However, their efforts were dashed when, after Okuzaki's arrest (see below), the media reported that Okuzaki sent a threatening letter to the Indonesian President Suharto, and also considered killing the Indonesian consular officer.
The documentary ended with Okuzaki's attempt in late 1983 to kill Masao Muramoto (村本 政雄, Muramoto Masao), whose former and wartime last name was Koshimizu (古清水). Muramoto was a former colonel in the Imperial Japanese Army who allegedly ordered the men's deaths. Okuzaki ended up shooting and injuring the son of the commander, Kazunori Muramoto (村本 和憲, Muramoto Kazunori). Before the murder attempt, Okuzaki contacted Hara, asking if he would like to film the murder. Hara did not wish to film it and ignored Okuzaki's request, and the event is only depicted in the documentary through newspaper headlines. After several days on the run, Okuzaki turned himself to the police. After his arrest, Okuzaki confessed that he was thinking of killing four more people, and was eventually sentenced to 12 years in prison.


=== Later life ===
Okuzaki was released from the Fuchū Prison in August, 1997. His wife Shizumi (シズミ) had died in 1986 during his imprisonment, and thus Okuzaki lived alone in poor health. In August 2004, Okuzaki fainted in his apartment, and was hospitalized. He died on 16 June 2005 in a hospital in Kobe at age 85 from multiple organ dysfunction syndrome.


== Filmography ==
1987: The Emperor's Naked Army Marches On
1998: Kami-sama no Ui Yatsu (神様の愛い奴)


== Books ==
Yamazaki, Shoot the Emperor with a Pistol! (ヤマザキ、天皇を撃て！, Yamazaki, Ten'nō o Ute) (1972) ISBN 4787787187
The Alien Bible!? (宇宙人の聖書！？, Uchūbito no Seisho) (1976)
To Kill Kakuei Tanaka, the Journal (田中角栄を殺すために記す, Tanaka Kakuei o Korosu tame ni Shirusu) (1981)
Theory of Killing (殺人論, Satsujinron) (1983)
The Emperor's Naked Army Marches On: Opinions (ゆきゆきて「神軍」の思想, Yuki Yukite Shingun no Shisō) (1987) ISBN 978-4787787170
The Appeals of the Non-Citizen Kenzō Okuzaki (非国民奥崎謙三は訴える, Hikokumin Okuzaki Kenzō wa Uttaeru) (1988) ISBN 4787788140
Statements of Kenzō Okuzaki, Prisoner (奥崎謙三服役囚考, Okuzaki Kenzō Fukuekishū Kō) (1995) ISBN 4787795147


== See also ==
New Guinea campaign
Assassination attempts on Hirohito
Anti-monarchism in Japan


== Citations ==


== References ==

"Best on Earth" (stylized in all caps) is a song by American rapper Russ featuring rapper Bia. It was released as the fourth single from Russ's fourteenth studio album Shake the Snow Globe (2020) on October 17, 2019. The song was produced by Boi-1da and Jahaan Sweet, and samples "Some Cut" The Lil Jon produced single by American hip hop group Trillville.


== Music video ==
A music video was released on November 5, 2019. In it, Russ and Bia are at a party with many women twerking and draped in lingerie. "Russ also covers the basement floor in dollar bills, as he sits down to take in the scene and enjoy some hookah."


== Reception ==
On October 18, 2019, Rihanna took to Instagram to post a video of the song with the captions, "thank you @bia and @russ for my new fav song #BestOnEarth". The two rappers both received a cosign from Rihanna, which they expressed appreciation for. On September 29, 2020, Bia's verse from the record received a nomination for the BET Hip Hop Awards in the “Sweet 16: Best Featured Verse” category. Russ received his first music industry award for the single at the 2021 BMI R&B/Hip-Hop Awards.


== Chart performance ==
"Best on Earth" debuted at number 100 on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart, on the week of December 21, 2019. The song became Russ' third and Bia's first to appear on the chart. After climbing the chart for three months, the song reached its peak at number 46 on the week of March 28, 2020. On May 13, 2020, the single was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for combined sales and streaming units of over a million units in the United States. On April 16, 2025, the single was certified 3× Multi-Platinum.


== Charts ==


== Certifications ==


== References ==

Friedrich (Fritz) Baumbach (8 September 1935 – 24 April 2025) was a German International Correspondence Chess Grandmaster, most famous for being the eleventh ICCF World Champion from 1983 to 1989. He was also East German Champion in 1970.  


== Biography ==
Baumbach tied for second place behind Mikhail Umansky in a "champion of champions" tournament, the ICCF 50 Years World Champion Jubilee. This was a special invitational correspondence tournament involving all living former ICCF World Champions.
He was a chemist by profession. He received his doctorate in 1966. From 2000 he worked as a freelance patent attorney.
Baumbach died in Berlin on 24 April 2025, at the age of 89.


== References ==


== External links ==
Friedrich Baumbach player details at ICCF 
Friedrich Baumbach rating card at FIDE 
Friedrich Baumbach player profile and games at Chessgames.com
Baumbach at Chessmail.com at the Wayback Machine (archived 2006-05-23)

Baird's trogon (Trogon bairdii) is a bird species belonging to the family Trogonidae, which includes quetzals and trogons. It is native to Costa Rica and Panama. The species is named in honor of Spencer Fullerton Baird, a renowned naturalist of the 19th century who served as the first curator of the Smithsonian Institution.


== Taxonomy and systematics ==
Baird's trogon is sometimes treated as conspecific with one or both of green-backed trogon (T. viridis) and white-tailed trogon (T. chionurus). They do form a sister group with black-headed trogon (T. melanocephalus) and citreoline trogon (T. citreolus). Baird's trogon is monotypic.


== Description ==
Baird's trogon is 25 to 28 cm (9.8 to 11.0 in) long and weighs about 95 g (3.4 oz). The male's head and most of the breast are bluish black and the rest of the underparts a rich bright red. It has a stout light blue bill and ring around the eye. The upperparts are metallic blue-green and the wings mostly blackish with some white on the primary feathers. The upper side of the tail feathers are greenish- to violet-blue with black tips. Their underside is white with black tips. The female replaces the blue and green with dark slate above and a paler gray in the throat and breast. The underparts have less red and the underside of the tail is barred with black and white.


== Distribution and habitat ==
Baird's trogon is found on the Pacific slope of Costa Rica from approximately the Tárcoles River south just into western Panama's Chiriquí Province. It primarily inhabits the interior canopy of humid rainforest but also occurs at its edges, in tall secondary forest, and in shady semi-open woodland. In elevation it ranges from sea level to 1,200 m (3,900 ft).


== Behavior ==


=== Feeding ===
Baird's trogon forages by sallying to take fruits and insects from foliage and will also take prey from the ground. Small vertebrates are a minor part of its diet.


=== Breeding ===
Baird's trogon breeds between April and August. They nest in a cavity in the decaying trunk of a dead tree. The clutch size is two to three eggs; incubation takes 16 to 17 days, and fledging takes about 25 days from hatching.


=== Vocalization ===
The song of Baird's trogon is a "series of barking notes, first level, then accelerating and falling abruptly, sometimes terminating with several widely spaced notes on [a] lower pitch". It also makes a "sharp cackle" when bothered.


== Status ==
The IUCN originally assessed Baird's trogon in 1988 as Threatened, but since 2004 has rated it Near Threatened. It has a small range and is losing habitat to deforestation. It is mostly restricted to protected areas in Costa Rica and is rare in Panama, with few records in the 2000s.


== References ==


== External links ==
Baird's Trogon by monarchzman

Wolfaardt v Fedlife Assurance Ltd is an important, precedent-setting case in South African labour law, decided by Odendaal AJ on August 31, 1999. It was heard in the Witwatersrand Local Division.


== Facts ==
The plaintiff sued the defendant for damages arising from an alleged repudiation of the plaintiff's contract of employment by the defendant. The defendant filed a special plea based on the Labour Court's exclusive jurisdiction to hear such matters in terms of section 157(1) of the Labour Relations Act. The plaintiff then excepted to the special plea on the basis that it disclosed no defence. The plaintiff's argument was that its claim was based on simple breach of contract and damages flowing therefrom.


== Judgment ==
The court that the crucial question was whether the ordinary civil courts, in light of the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, retained their jurisdiction to hear common-law contractual breaches of contracts of employment. The court found itself to be bound by a recent decision which appeared to be on all fours with the present case: That decision held that the simple enforcement of a contract of employment is not a matter falling within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Labour Court. Being unconvinced that this decision was wrong, the court followed it.
The Labour Relations Act was held to distinguish between the remedies of compensation and damages, both of which it was empowered to order. Awards of compensation were dealt with specifically, while that of damages was not. This being the case, the court held that damages did not fall within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Labour Court.


== See also ==
Action (law)
South African civil procedure
South African labour law
South African private law


== References ==


=== Case law ===
Coin Security Group Limited v SA National Union for Security Officers and other Workers and Others [1998] 19 ILJ 43 (C).
Independent Municipal & Allied Trade Union v Northern Pretoria Metropolitan Substructure and Others [1999] 20 ILJ 1018 (T).
Jacot-Guillarmod v The Gauteng Provincial Government and Another, Transvaal Provincial Division, unreported, case 8499/98.
Mondi Paper (A Division of Mondi Limited) v Paper Printing Wood and Allied Workers’ Union and Others [1997] 18 ILJ 84 (D).
Sappi Fine Papers (Pty) Limited (Adamas Mill) v Paper Printing Wood and Allied Workers' Union and Others [1998] 19 ILJ 246 (SE).
Wolfaardt v Fedlife Assurance Ltd [2000] JOL 6513 (W).


=== Statutes ===
Labour Relations Act 66 of 1999


== Notes ==

This article lists the speakers of the National Assembly of the Republika Srpska.


== List of officeholders ==
  Serb Democratic Party
  Socialist Party
  Alliance of Independent Social Democrats
  Democratic People's Alliance
  Democratic Union
  United Srpska


== Timeline ==


== Standard ==


== See also ==
President of Republika Srpska
List of presidents of Republika Srpska
List of vice presidents of Republika Srpska
List of prime ministers of Republika Srpska


== References ==


== External links ==
Political Leaders: Bosnia and Hercegovina

Youna Dufournet (born October 19, 1993) is a retired French gymnast, the 2009 World Vault bronze medalist, 2009 all-around champion of the Mediterranean Games, and a 2012 Olympian. She was born in Saumur.
In addition to her vaulting medal, Dufournet finished fifth in the all-around competition at the World Championships, the highest placement ever for a female French gymnast. She is France's second female medalist on vault after Alexandra Lemoine in 1950. Dufournet is the sixth female gymnast from France to obtain an individual medal in World or Olympic competition, following Lemoine in 1950, 1995 World floor bronze medalist Ludivine Furnon, 1996 World bars bronze medalist Isabelle Severino, 2004 Olympic bars champion Émilie Le Pennec and 2007 World Floor bronze medalist Cassy Vericel; at the 1950 World Artistic Gymnastics Championships the French team also got a silver medal.
After severely injuring her knee at the 2010 French National Championships, tension began to develop between Dufournet and her coaches. Dufournet felt she was being pushed too hard during her recovery period, and  decided to change gyms in the run-up to the Olympic games. In 2011, she qualified in second place for the uneven bars final, where ultimately she ended up in eight.
Dufournet arrived at the 2012 Olympic Games as a favorite to make the uneven bars final, but during her qualifying routine a grip slipped and she fell from the apparatus. Despite that the slip was due to no fault of her gymnastics, the fall was deducted and she placed 17th on bars, well below the 8th place needed to advance. Dufournet vowed to continue on in hopes of making the 2016 Rio Olympics.
At the 2016 French Championships in June, Dufournet competed on all events except floor, but fell off the uneven bars during prelims and again during the balance beam event final, placing 7th. She ranked 19th in the all-around final. Hampered by injury and knowing she was unlikely to be selected for the French Olympic team, she announced her retirement at age 22 on her Facebook on June 19, 2016, saying she had "given 200% of [her] body and soul to gymnastics throughout the years" and "had no regrets".


== References ==

Symbel is an English heathen metal rock band, created in 2001 by Sceot Acwealde (also Bretwaldas of Heathen Doom and Herne), fusing lyrical elements of the English neopagan, anti-capitalist and esoteric anarchist circles with folkish and romanticist nationalist beliefs, drawing from the philosophies suggested in the Anglo-Saxon and Old Norse texts.


== Releases ==
The debut CD was released in January 2003 by Angelisc Enterprises, the label run by Forefather, now called Seven Kingdoms. Subsequent work has been released by King Penda Productions and Midhir Records.

Heathen Drinking Metal; 27 minutes four track demos 2001 / 02
We Drink - Hymns and Counsel of Anglo-Saxon Heathenry; CD 2003 36 minutes
"Wet English Forests"; 10-inch vinyl 45 rpm 2004 – re-release of selected demo material.
Ale Whores of Mercia; CD May 2007
Gyddigg - Possessed by the Rage of Wod; CD 2013
Hammerwych; EP August 2014 
King Penda Productions has made available these releases as digital downloads at Bandcamp.


== Members ==
Sceot Acwealde – vocals, all instruments.


== References ==


== Interviews ==
METAL COVEN   – MAY 2004
FROM BELOW      – MAR 2004
EXPLOSION CEREBRAL  – OCT 2003
METALIRELAND     – JUNE 2003
LORDSOFMETAL     – MAR 2003


== External links ==
Official homepage

Buzoulyk (Russian: Бузоулык; Bashkir: Быҙаулыҡ, Bıźawlıq) is a rural locality (a village) in Udryakbashevsky Selsoviet, Blagovarsky District, Bashkortostan, Russia. The population was 84 as of 2010. There is 1 street.


== Geography ==
Buzoulyk is located 26 km southwest of Yazykovo (the district's administrative centre) by road. Tallykul is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

Armando Herrera Leal (born May 25, 1955) is a retired male triple jumper from Cuba, who represented his native country twice at the Summer Olympics: 1976 and 1980. His best Olympic result was finishing in 11th place in Moscow, USSR (1980) with a leap of 16.03 meters. He was also the silver medallist in the event at the 1974 Central American and Caribbean Games. In 1983, Herrera retired from athletics.
His younger brother, Alejandro Herrera, was also a triple jumper.
His personal bests in the event is 16.85 metres set in 1980.


== International competitions ==


== References ==

Evans, Hilary; Gjerde, Arild; Heijmans, Jeroen; Mallon, Bill; et al. "Armando Herrera". Olympics at Sports-Reference.com. Sports Reference LLC. Archived from the original on 2020-04-18.

The medieval Bulgarian army was the primary military body of the First and the Second Bulgarian Empires, and some puppet states of the former, like the Despotate of Dobruja. During the first decades after the foundation of the country, the army consisted of a Bulgar cavalry and a Slavic infantry. The core of the Bulgarian army was the heavy cavalry, which consisted of ca. 12,000 heavily armed riders. At its height in the 9th and 10th centuries, it was one of the most formidable military forces in Europe and was feared by its enemies. There are several documented cases of Byzantine commanders abandoning an invasion because of a reluctance to confront the Bulgarian army on its home territory.
The army was intrinsically linked to the very existence of the Bulgarian state. Its success under Tsar Simeon I the Great marked the creation of a wide-ranging empire, and its defeat in a prolonged war of attrition in the early 11th century meant the end of Bulgarian independence. When the Bulgarian state was reestablished in 1185, a series of capable emperors achieved a remarkable string of victories over the Byzantines and the Western Crusaders, but as the state and its army fragmented in the 13th and 14th centuries, it proved unable to halt the Ottoman advance, which resulted in the conquest of all of Bulgaria by 1396/1422. It would not be until 1878, with the Liberation of Bulgaria, that a Bulgarian military would be restored.


== History ==


=== 7th–8th century ===
The early Bulgars were a warlike people and war was part of their everyday life, with every adult Bulgar obliged to fight. The early Bulgars were exclusively horsemen: in their culture, the horse was considered a sacred animal and received special care.
The supreme commander was the khan, who mustered the army with the help of the aristocracy. The military ranks from lowest to highest were bagain, bagatur, boil, tarkhan. The permanent army consisted of the khan's guard of select warriors, while the campaign army consisted practically of the entire nation, assembled by clans. In the field, the army was divided into right and left wings.
The Bulgars were well versed in the use of stratagems. They often held a strong cavalry unit in reserve, which would attack the enemy at an opportune moment. They also sometimes concentrated their free horses behind their battle formation to avoid surprise attacks from the rear. They used ambushes and feigned retreats, during which they rode with their backs to the horse, firing clouds of arrows on the enemy. If the enemy pursued disorganized, they would turn back and fiercely attack them. According to contemporary historians, the Bulgars "could see in the dark like bats" and often fought at night.

The Bulgarian army was well armed according to the Avar model: the soldiers had a sabre or a sword, a long spear and a bow with an arrow-quiver on the back. On the saddle they hung a round shield, a mace and a lasso, which the Bulgarians called arkani. On their decorated belts the soldiers carried the most necessary objects such as flints and steel, a knife, a cup and a needle case. The heavy cavalry was supplied with metal armour and helmets. The horses were also armoured. Armour was of two types — chain-mail and plate armour. The commanders had belts with golden or silver buckles which corresponded to their rank and title.
The army had iron discipline, with the officers vigorously checking if everything was ready before a battle. For a horse that was undernourished or not properly taken care of, the punishment was death. The soldiers were under threat of a death penalty when having a loose bow-string or an unmaintained sword; or even if riding a war horse in peacetime.
The infantry of the newly formed state was composed mainly of Slavs, who were generally lightly armed soldiers, although their chieftains usually had small cavalry retinues. The Slavic footmen were equipped with swords, spears, bows and wooden or leather shields. However, they were less disciplined and less effective than the Bulgar cavalry.
In 680, the Byzantines under Constantine IV were crushed in the battle of Ongal and were forced to conclude a humiliating peace treaty by which they de jure acknowledged the formation of a Bulgarian state on their former territory. In 718, a Bulgarian intervention was crucial in the repulsion of the Second Arab Siege of Constantinople. According to contemporaries, the Arabs feared the Bulgarian army and built trenches to protect themselves from a cavalry charge. In the decisive battle in the summer that year the Bulgarians slaughtered between 20,000 and 32,000 Arabs. Apart from engaging in battle to the south, the Bulgarians had to fight the Avars to the north-west and the Khazars to the north-east. After bloody fights between the Dnester and the Dneper rivers, the Khazar threat was eliminated but the founder of the Bulgarian state Khan Asparukh perished in one of the battles in 700.


=== Krum's dynasty ===
On the turn of the 9th century, the Bulgarian Empire was on the rise. Following the victory over the Byzantines at Marcelae in 792, the country overcame a 50-year crisis and entered the new century stronger and consolidated. During the first years of his reign, Khan Krum destroyed the Avar Khaganate and doubled Bulgaria's territory, taking over the fertile Pannonian Plain and the salt and gold mines of Transylvania. Krum achieved major victories over the Byzantine Empire, annihilating the Byzantine armies in the battle of Pliska (811) and at Versinikia (813), while capturing the important city of Sofia in 809.

The Byzantine historian Pseudo-Simeon stated that Krum sent a 30,000 strong cavalry, "the whole armoured with iron", which devastated Thrace. According to inscriptions found in the region of Pliska, Preslav, Madara and Shabla in north-eastern Bulgaria, armaments for 1,713 heavy riders were available. Assuming that the surviving inscriptions are around 1/10 of the total number, that makes 17,130 men only in the so-called "inner region" of Bulgaria. After comparison with the data of Pseudo-Simeon, it can be assumed that the heavy cavalry component of the Bulgarian army numbered between 17–20,000 and 30,000 men, depending on the level of mobilization. During the end of the 9th and the beginning of the 10th centuries, Emperor Simeon the Great was able to lead in battle more than 60,000 soldiers.

Traditionally, the army's commander-in-chief was the ruler. The second in the chain of command was the kavkhan who led the army during the Emperor's absence. The third most important title in the hierarchy was the ichirgu-boil who commanded the garrison of the capital. In the field, the army was divided into three parts: center, right flank and left flank. The center was commanded by the ruler, the left flank by the kavkhan and the right flank by the ichirgu-boil. Other higher military ranks included the tarkhan which was equal to the Byzantine strategos according to Steven Runciman, and the higher officers were called bagain. All higher military ranks were part of the Bulgarian nobility called bolyars or boils.


==== Decline under Peter I ====
During the long years of warfare under Tsar Simeon I the Great (893–927), the country was exhausted. The constant wars were unpopular enough so that 20,000 people sought refuge in Byzantium because of Simeon's "warlike rush and relentless intentions". His successor Peter I concluded a favourable peace treaty with the Byzantines, but the situation inside the country saw no improvement. There were many reasons for the decline — some historians dismiss Peter I as a weak ruler, incapable of handling his own family (two of his brothers rose up against him). Furthermore, in the mid-10th century the new Bogomil heresy spread itself widely over the country. The Bogomils preached that people must not follow secular authorities, pay taxes or enroll in the army. As a result, the Bulgarians were unable to stop the Magyars, who looted and plundered the countryside, further contributing to the grim situation of the state. When the Byzantines paid the Rus' knyaz Svyatoslav I to invade Bulgaria in 968, Peter I could send only 30,000 men against the 60,000 strong invading force. During the Rus' invasion between 968 and 971 the Bulgarians de facto lost control of the north-eastern parts of their country, including the capital Preslav, and in 970, Svyatoslav massacred 300 Bulgarian nobles, the elite of the Bulgarian nation and army, in Silistra.


=== Cometopuli dynasty ===
The fall of the north-eastern parts of the Bulgarian Empire under Byzantine rule and the decimation of its military elite had a severe impact on the Bulgarian army, especially since most of the heavy cavalry which was instrumental in the earlier successes over the Byzantines was recruited exactly in that region. Contemporary sources continue to mention the existence of a Bulgarian cavalry, but it was much reduced in size and was mostly light cavalry.

Consequently, the infantry's importance grew and the tactics changed to reflect the new conditions: the ambush, although employed in the past, now became the cornerstone of Bulgarian tactics — most Bulgarian victories in that period were a result of ambush and careful exploitation of the terrain. During this period, the Bulgarians acquired a reputation for their skillful archers.
Despite those difficulties, Emperor Samuil resisted the Byzantine army, which reached its zenith under Basil II, for nearly half a century. In 976 the Bulgarians led by the Cometopuli brothers reconquered the north-eastern parts of the realm. The first Byzantine attempts for counter-attack were repulsed after the annihilation of a 60,000 force in the battle of the Gates of Trajan in 986 in which Basil II himself barely escaped. In the following decade the Bulgarians took Thessaly, destroyed the Principality of Duklja, advanced deep to the south as far as Corinth on the Peloponnese peninsula and campaigned in Dalmatia and Bosnia.

However, a major defeat at the battle of Spercheios in 996 signaled that the tide of the war had begun to change in the Byzantines' favour. From 1001 onwards, Basil II launched yearly campaigns into Bulgarian territory, methodically taking important cities such as Preslav, Pliska and Vidin, and inflicting several defeats on Samuil. In addition, in 1003 Samuil was involved in a war with the Kingdom of Hungary. After years of campaigning, in 1014, in the decisive battle of Kleidion the Bulgarian army was crushed and 14,000 captured Bulgarian soldiers were blinded and sent to Samuil, who died at the sight of his army on 6 October.
In the battle of Kleidion the Bulgarian army numbered around 20,000 soldiers. According some estimates the total number of the army including the squads of local militia reached a maximum level of 45,000. The Byzantine historian Georgius Monachus Continuatus wrote that the Bulgarian army had 360,000 men, a greatly exaggerated number, the actual being 10 times smaller.


=== Asen dynasty ===

In 1185 the Bulgarian Empire was restored as a result of the successful Rebellion of Asen and Peter, who founded the new Asen dynasty. The long period of Byzantine rule had left its mark on the Bulgarian army — the titles during the Second Empire were mostly borrowed from Byzantium. In the absence of the Emperor the commander-in-chief was called velik (great) voivoda; the commander of smaller squads was a voivoda and a strator was the person responsible for the defense of certain regions and the recruitment of soldiers.
In the late 12th century the army numbered 40,000 men-at-arms. The country was able to mobilize around 100,000 men in the first decade of the 13th century (Kaloyan reportedly offered the leader of the Fourth Crusade Baldwin I 100,000 soldiers to help him take Constantinople). In that period the Bulgarian army used large numbers of Cuman cavalry which numbered between 10,000 and 30,000 riders, depending on the campaign. These were drawn from among the Cumans who inhabited Wallachia and Moldavia, and were at least nominally under the suzerainty of the Bulgarian Emperors. The army was well supplied with siege equipment, including battering rams, siege towers and catapults.

In the first fifty years after the reestablishment of the Empire, the Bulgarians, led by skillful commanders such as Peter IV, Ivan Asen I, Kaloyan and Ivan Asen II, achieved massive military successes. After a number of successful battles between 1185 and 1204, the Byzantine Empire was effectively driven from the lands it held in the northern Balkans, and the Imperial crown and cross. The army of the Crusaders, who established the new Latin Empire, were in turn annihilated in the battle of Adrianople (1205), when their Emperor was captured, and again at Rusion in 1206. The Hungarians were defeated after several fights along the valley of the Morava river in 1202. After several setbacks under Boril I (1207–1218), Ivan Asen II decisively defeated the Despotate of Epirus in the battle of Klokotnitsa, in which the much smaller Bulgarian army outmaneuvered its enemy. In 1241, the Tsar defeated a Mongol army, fighting under Batu Khan and Subutai.


=== Terter and Shishman dynasties ===
The country and the army declined after Ivan Asen II's death. His successors could not cope neither with the external nor with the internal problems. Mongol, Byzantine and Hungarian invasions were combined with separatism among the nobility and several civil wars. In 1277, a peasant named Ivailo rebelled against Emperor Constantine Tikh. In the ensuing battle the Emperor was defeated and slain, and Ivailo proclaimed himself Emperor of Bulgaria in Tarnovo. Although he managed to defeat both the Mongols and the Byzantines, a plot among the nobility forced him to seek refuge among the Mongol Golden Horde, where he was killed in 1280. The army now numbered less than 10,000 men — it is recorded that Ivailo defeated two Byzantine armies of 5,000 and 10,000 men, and that his troops were outnumbered in both cases.

After the end of the rebellion of Ivailo, the Bulgarians were no match for the Mongols who plundered the country undisturbed for 20 years. With the reign of Theodore Svetoslav (1300–1321), the situation of the army improved — in 1304 he defeated the Byzantines at Skafida. Under his successor the garrison of Plovdiv numbered 2,000 heavily armed footmen and 1,000 horsemen. In 1330 Michael III Shishman raised a 15,000-strong army to face the Serbs but was defeated at the battle of Velbazhd. Two years later the Bulgarian army numbered 11,000 men.
When the Ottoman Turks invaded Bulgaria and the Balkans in the mid-14th century, the once glorious Bulgarian army was only a shadow of its former self. Feudal disunion and the widespread heretical movements such as Bogomilism, the Adamites or the Varlaamites did not allow the country to maintain a significant force. The Bulgarians relied on their fortified cities and castles for defense, but due to the lack of a common leadership, coordination amongst them was feeble and they were defeated and occupied in detail.

Initially, the Ottoman invasion was not considered as a significant threat by both Bulgarians and Byzantines. For only one decade between 1354 and 1364 the Ottomans conquered virtually the whole of Thrace seizing large cities such as Plovdiv, Beroia, Dianopolis (Yambol) and Adrianople and defeating several small Bulgarian forces. The centuries-old mistrust between Bulgarians and Byzantines spoiled the negotiations between the two empires for an alliance and even led to the last Byzantine-Bulgarian war in 1364. In 1371 a large Bulgarian-Serb army under Vukašin Mrnjavčević and Jovan Uglješa, two feudal lords in Macedonia, was annihilated by the Ottomans under Lala Shahin Pasha at Chernomen and soon the Bulgarian Emperor had to admit the defeat and became a vassal to the invaders. Numerous Bulgarian fortresses in the Rhodope mountains, Sofia valley and eastern Bulgaria were captured one by one over the next twenty years. In 1393 the capital Tarnovo was besieged and seized by the Ottoman Turks and three years later fell Vidin – the last major Bulgarian city. Resistance to the invaders continued until 1422 when the country was fully conquered. The Ottoman invasion was a disaster for the Bulgarian army — the nobility and the leaders of the nation were killed or emigrated and civilians were not allowed to have weapons until the 19th century.


== Tactics ==

The Bulgarian army employed various military tactics. It relied both on the experience of the soldiers and the peculiarities of the terrain. The Balkan Mountains played a significant role in the military history of Bulgaria and facilitated the country's defense against the strong Byzantine army which conveyed the Roman military art in the Middle Ages. Most of the nine campaigns of the ambitious Emperor Constantine V to eliminate the young Bulgarian state, which suffered political crisis, failed in the mountain passes of the Balkan. In 811 the whole Byzantine army was destroyed in the Varbitsa Pass and in 12th–13th centuries several other Byzantine forces shared that doom. The Bulgarians maintained many outposts and castles which guarded the passes and were able to locate an invading force and quickly inform the high command about any enemy moves.
Another widely used tactic was to make a false retreat and then suddenly attack the enemy — breaking the lines when in pursuit. This trick won many victories, most notably at the battle of Adrianople in 1205 against the Crusaders. Sometimes the Bulgarians left a strong cavalry force in reserve which attacked in the sublime moment and tipped the balance in Bulgarians' favour, for instance in the battle of Anchialus in 917. Ambush was another widely used and very successful strategy especially during the Cometopuli dynasty.

The Bulgarians usually avoided frontal assault and waited the enemy to attack first. After the opponent inevitably breaks his battle formation the Bulgarians would counter-attack with their heavy cavalry. In several battles the Bulgarian troops waited the Byzantines for days until the latter attack — for instance at Marcelae (792) or Versinikia (813) – and scored decisive victories. In one of the rare occasions in which the army made a frontal attack on the enemy, the result was a defeat despite the heavy casualties the enemy suffered – battle of Anchialus (763). After a successful battle the Bulgarian would pursue the enemy in depth in order to eliminate as much soldiers as possible and not to allow him to reorganize his forces quickly and effectively. For instance after the victory at Ongal in 680 the Byzantines were chased for 150–200 km. After the success at Anchialus in 917 the Byzantines were not given time to prepare their resistance properly and the result was the annihilation of their last forces in the battle of Katasyrtai.
During war the Bulgarians usually sent light cavalry to devastate the enemy lands on a broad front pillaging villages and small towns, burning the crops and taking people and cattle. During the Second Empire that task was usually assigned to the Cumans. The Bulgarian army was very mobile — for instance prior to the battle of Klokotnitsa for four days it covered a distance three times longer than the Epirote army for a week; in 1332 it covered 230 km for five days.


== Siege equipment ==

The early Bulgarian army was not supplied with strong siege equipment . The Bulgarians used siege machines on a large scale for the first time during the reign of Khan Krum (803–814), when they employed Arab renegades to gain experience. By 814 they possessed a large number of enormous siege machines – battering rams, ballistas, mangonels, catapults, siege towers, machines against battlements. They were transported by 5,000 iron-covered carts, hauled by 10,000 oxen. In addition, after the siege of Mesembria, the Bulgarians captured 36 copper siphons which the Byzantines used to throw the famous Greek fire.
A wide range of siege equipment was also used during the Second Empire. During the siege of Adrianople in 1207, Emperor Kaloyan had 33 catapults and an engineer corps which was tasked with destroying the city walls. In the beginning of the 13th century, during the siege of Varna, the Bulgarians constructed an enormous siege tower which was wider than the moat of the fortress.


== Foreign and mercenary soldiers ==
After the Bulgarians conquered the Avar Khanate in 804–805, Avar soldiers, who were now subjects of the Bulgarian crown, were recruited in the army, especially during the campaign against Nicephorus I in 811, when the Byzantines burned down the capital, Pliska. In the 9th–10th centuries the Bulgarians often resorted to the services of the Pechenegs, who were probably Bulgarian federates. When the Byzantines stirred the Kievan Rus' up against the Empire, the Bulgarian diplomacy in turn used the Pechenegs against Rus'.
During the Second Empire, foreign and mercenary soldiers became an important part of the Bulgarian army and its tactics. Since the very beginning of the rebellion of Asen and Peter, the light and mobile Cuman cavalry was effectively used against the Byzantines and later the Crusaders. For instance, fourteen thousand of them were used by Kaloyan in the battle of Adrianople. The Cumans were the empire's most effective military component. The Cuman leaders entered the ranks of Bulgarian nobility, and some of them received high military or administrative posts in the state. During the 14th century the Bulgarian army increasingly relied on foreign mercenaries, which included Western knights, Mongols, Ossetians or came from vassal Wallachia. Both Michael III Shishman and Ivan Alexander had a 3,000-strong Mongol cavalry detachment in their armies. In the 1350s, Emperor Ivan Alexander even hired Ottoman bands, as did the Byzantine Emperor. Russians were also hired as mercenaries.


== Conflicts ==


=== Byzantine–Bulgarian wars ===


=== Bulgarian–Croatian wars ===


=== Bulgarian–Hungarian wars ===


=== Bulgarian–Latin wars ===


=== Bulgarian–Ottoman wars ===


=== Bulgarian–Serbian wars ===


== See also ==

Medieval Bulgarian navy
Byzantine army
Medieval warfare


== Notes ==
Note that the works Byzantine authors are usually from their Bulgarian edition ГИБИ (Гръцки Извори за Българската История – Greek Sources for the Bulgarian History)


== References ==
(in English) Lang, D. M. (1976). The Bulgarians from Pagan Times to the Ottoman Conquest. Southampton: Thames & Hudson.
(in English) Lowe, Stephen. Byzantium's Neighbours: 1. The Bulgarians. Archived from the original on 27 October 2009.
(in Bulgarian) Pavlov, P. (2005). "Commanders and allies Cumans, Tatars and Alans in the Second Bulgarian Empire". Rebels and adventurers in Medieval Bulgaria (in Bulgarian). Varna: LiterNet.
(in English) Runciman, Steven (1930). A history of the First Bulgarian Empire. London: G. Bell & Sons.
(in Bulgarian) Zlatarski, Vasil (1971). History of the Bulgarian state in the Middle Ages: Part 1 (in Bulgarian). Sofia: IInd edition.
(in Bulgarian) Zlatarski, Vasil (1971). History of the Bulgarian state in the Middle Ages: Part 2 (in Bulgarian). Sofia: IInd edition.
(in English) Bulgaria, retrieved on 16 September 2009
(in Bulgarian) Annex 9: The siege machines during the reign of Khan Krum
Stoyanov, Aleksandar (2019). "The Size of Bulgaria's Medieval Field Armies: A Case Study of Military Mobilization Capacity in the Middle Ages". Journal of Military History. 83 (3): 719–746. ISSN 0899-3718.

María Luisa Aragón (died February 11, 1974) was a Guatemalan playwright, actress, and radio producer.
Aragon was a native of Guatemala City; her date of birth is given in various sources as 1897, 1899, or 1910. She joined the Grupo Artístico Nacional in 1918; in 1945 she ceased stage activity and turned instead to the radio, broadcasting a program entitled Radioteatro Infantil, La voz de Guatemala. Other programs which she produced or created include Milagroso Señor de Esquipulas and El precio de una honra, both for Radio Reloj; with Armando Moreno Morales she developed El Tribunal de la Alegria and La Tremenda Corte. She also wrote numerous works for the stage; although theatrical performances were significantly curtailed under the dictatorship of Jorge Ubico, plays such as hers and those of Manuel Galich were encouraged.  Continuing her acting career, Aragón toured with a variety of foreign theatrical troupes; on film she was seen in El Sombrerón and Cuando vuelvas a mí, and she appeared on television as well. She received the Quetzal de Oro from the Asociación de Periodistas de Guatemala in 1961, and she was made a member of the Order of the Quetzal by the government of Guatemala.


== Works ==


=== Plays ===
Un loteriazo en plena crisis
Amargo secreto
El misterio de la cumbre
Tempestad en el alma
El tesoro de los pobres
También los ricos sufren
El testamento del compadre
Falsa acusación
La fuerza de la verdad
La Cipriana
Martín esta celoso
Madre querida
Amor indio
Así es Guatemala
¿Por qué pecan la mujeres?
En la zarabanda nació el amor
Senderos de angustia
Cadenas de un pecado
Entre el amor y el orgullo
En la red de su pecado
La culpa de los padres
Frente al destino
Esclavo de su honra
Sources: and 


== References ==

Robert Alexander Wood (born January 12, 1991) is an American former professional baseball pitcher. He played 12 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Atlanta Braves, Los Angeles Dodgers, Cincinnati Reds, San Francisco Giants, and Oakland Athletics.
Wood played college baseball for the Georgia Bulldogs. He was selected by the Braves in the second round of the 2012 MLB draft, and made his MLB debut in 2013. With the Dodgers, he was an All-Star in 2017 and won the 2020 World Series.


== Early life ==
Wood was born in Charlotte, North Carolina. He attended Ardrey Kell High School, where he played for the school's baseball team. In 2009, he helped lead the Ardrey Kell baseball team to the North Carolina 4A state title and was also named the North Carolina 4A player of the year.
Wood enrolled at the University of Georgia, where he played college baseball for the Georgia Bulldogs baseball team. He was redshirted during his first season at Georgia due to having Tommy John surgery after his senior year of high school. At Georgia, Wood had a 13–10 win–loss record and a 3.57 earned run average (ERA) in 32 games pitched. He struck out 180 batters and walked 47 in 204+1⁄3 innings. He was voted 2nd team All-SEC in 2012.


== Professional career ==


=== Atlanta Braves (2012–15) ===

The Atlanta Braves drafted Wood in the second round of the 2012 Major League Baseball draft, and he signed for a signing bonus of $700,000. He played for the Rome Braves of the Class A South Atlantic League in 2012, where he pitched in 13 games, going 4–3 with a 2.22 earned run average (ERA) and 52 strikeouts.
He began the 2013 season with the Mississippi Braves of the Class AA Southern League. With Mississippi, he was 4–2 with a 1.26 ERA in 57 innings, and with Gwinnett, he was 1–0 with a 1.80 ERA in five innings. He was named an MiLB.com 2013 Organization All Star.
After pitching in ten games the first two months of the season and posting an ERA of 1.26, the Braves promoted him to the major leagues on May 30. That night, in his major league debut, he pitched the ninth inning against the Toronto Blue Jays. Wood made his first major league start on June 18, 2013, where he allowed one run and earned his first loss.
Wood finished the 2014 season with an 11–11 record and a 2.78 ERA in 171.2 innings with 170 strikeouts.
Beginning 2015 with Atlanta, Wood was 7–6 with a 3.54 ERA. In 20 starts, he pitched 119.1 innings.


=== Los Angeles Dodgers (2015–18) ===
On July 30, 2015, in a three-team trade, the Los Angeles Dodgers acquired Wood, Mat Latos, Michael Morse, Bronson Arroyo, Jim Johnson, Luis Avilán, and José Peraza, while the Miami Marlins acquired minor league pitchers Victor Araujo, Jeff Brigham, and Kevin Guzman, and the Braves received Héctor Olivera, Paco Rodriguez, minor league pitcher Zachary Bird and a competitive balance draft pick for the 2016 MLB draft. He joined the Dodgers starting rotation and was 5–6 with a 4.35 ERA in 12 starts for them.
Wood began 2016 in the Dodgers starting rotation. He made 10 starts in April and May and was 1–4 with a 3.99 ERA. On May 21 against the San Diego Padres he struck out a career high 13 batters in only six innings of work, the first Dodgers pitcher in history to have struck out that many in so few innings. However, he reported that he was not feeling 100% after a May 30 outing against the Chicago Cubs. An MRI exam the next day revealed a posterior impingement in his left elbow, requiring four weeks of rest, and he was placed on the disabled list. On June 16, he reported that the infringement subsided after he had some fluid drained from his elbow and he would be cleared to resume a throwing program a few days earlier than expected. He threw a simulated game against minor league hitters on July 16 and early reports were that it went well. However, shortly afterwards it was determined that he would need elbow debridement surgery, which would cause him to miss an additional two months. He did not rejoin the Dodgers roster until September 20. Overall, he appeared in 14 games for the Dodgers in 2016 (10 starts) and was 1–4 with a 3.73 ERA. The Dodgers did not carry Wood on their roster for the first round of the playoffs, but on October 15, he was added to their roster for the league championship series. He pitched two scoreless innings in that series. After the season, Wood signed a $2.8 million contract with the Dodgers for 2017, avoiding salary arbitration.
After beginning the 2017 season in the bullpen, Wood moved to the rotation after an injury to Rich Hill. He won the  National League Player of the Week Award for the week of May 8–14 after he pitched 11 scoreless innings with 21 strikeouts over two starts that week. A few weeks later he was also awarded with the  National League Pitcher of the Month Award after he went 5–0 with a 1.27 ERA and 41 strikeouts in May. Wood eventually had his scoreless innings streak snapped at 28 on June 10. On July 5, Wood became the first Dodgers starting pitcher to begin the season 10–0 since Don Newcombe in 1955. On July 7, Wood was named to the 2017 Major League Baseball All-Star Game.
In 27 appearances for the Dodgers (25 starts and two early season relief appearances) in 2017 he was 16–3 with a 2.72 ERA and struck out 151 batters. He induced a 34.6% chase rate from batters that put him in the top 4% in the category in MLB. For his efforts, Wood received a single vote in 2017 National League Cy Young voting, tying him for ninth place with Jimmy Nelson. He allowed three runs in 42⁄3 innings in his one start in the 2017 NLCS but in the 2017 World Series he started game four and allowed only one run in 52⁄3 innings and then came back and pitched two shutout innings of relief in game seven.
In the off-season, Wood signed a one-year, $6 million contract, avoiding salary arbitration. In 2018, he went 9–7 in 33 appearances (27 starts) with a 3.63 ERA.


=== Cincinnati Reds (2019) ===
On December 21, 2018, the Dodgers traded Wood to the Cincinnati Reds, along with Matt Kemp, Yasiel Puig, Kyle Farmer, and cash considerations in exchange for Homer Bailey, Jeter Downs, and Josiah Gray. Wood came down with a back injury in spring training, and missed most of the season on the disabled list. He made seven starts and was 1–3 with a 5.80 ERA.


=== Los Angeles Dodgers (2020) ===
On January 12, 2020, Wood returned to the Dodgers on a one-year, $4 million deal. The Dodgers' 2020 season did not begin until late July as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and Wood made the start on July 25 against the San Francisco Giants. He struggled with his command in the outing, only lasting three innings, and was placed on the injured list after the game with left shoulder inflammation. He rejoined the active roster on September 1, though he was reduced to a bullpen role for the rest of the season.
Wood appeared in nine games (two starts) on the season, allowing nine earned runs in 122⁄3 innings for a career-worst 6.39 ERA, and a career-worst WHIP of 1.816, as he struck out 15 batters. He was left off the roster for the first two rounds of the playoffs but was added back to it for the NLCS, and he pitched 2+1⁄3 scoreless innings in the series. In the 2020 World Series against the Tampa Bay Rays, Wood appeared in two games, pitching four scoreless innings, as the Dodgers won the championship.


=== San Francisco Giants (2021–2023) ===
On January 14, 2021, Wood signed a one-year, $3 million deal with the San Francisco Giants. In the 2021 regular season, Wood was 10–4 with a 3.83 ERA. In 26 starts he pitched 138.2 innings in which he struck out 152 batters, averaging 9.9 strikeouts per 9 innings, and was 4th in the NL in hit batters (16).
On December 1, 2021, Wood re-signed with the Giants on a two-year, $25 million contract.
On June 23, 2022, Wood threw his 1,000th career strikeout against Travis d'Arnaud of the Atlanta Braves. In 2022, he was 8–12 with a 5.10 ERA in 26 starts, and pitched 130.2 innings in which he struck out 131 batters and hit 12 batters (8th in the NL).


=== Oakland Athletics (2024) ===
On February 2, 2024, Wood signed a one-year, $8.5 million contract with the Oakland Athletics. On March 19, Wood was named the A's opening day starter. Wood took the loss in his Oakland debut, giving up six runs on seven hits and a walk over 3+1⁄3 innings against the Cleveland Guardians. After nine starts, he was placed on the injured list with left rotator cuff tendinitis on May 15, and was transferred to the 60–day injured list on June 9. On July 25, it was announced that Wood would require season–ending shoulder surgery.
On August 8, 2025, Wood announced his retirement from professional baseball via an Instagram post.


== Pitching style ==
Wood pitches with a herky-jerky three-quarters delivery.  He throws a four-seam fastball 91 to 95 miles per hour (146–153 km/h), a two-seam sinker 91 to 95 mph (146 to 153 km/h), a changeup 84 to 85 miles per hour (135–137 km/h), and a knuckle curve 79 to 81 miles per hour (127–130 km/h).


== Personal life ==
Wood married his longtime girlfriend, Suzanna Villarreal, a realtor, on November 25, 2017, in Atlanta, Georgia. They reside in Atlanta.


== See also ==
List of baseball players who underwent Tommy John surgery
List of World Series starting pitchers


== References ==


== External links ==

Career statistics from MLB · ESPN · Baseball Reference · Fangraphs · Baseball Reference (Minors) · Retrosheet · Baseball Almanac  
Alex Wood on X

Bruno Reichlin (born 10 February 1941 in Lucerne) is a Swiss architect.


== Biography ==
Reichlin studied at the Polytechnic of Zürich.
In the 1970s, he became associated with Fabio Reinhart and opened a practice in Lugano. They were strongly influenced by Italian architect Aldo Rossi.
Reichlin became a professor of architecture at the University of Geneva in 1984.


== References ==


== External links ==
Bruno Reichlin at archINFORM

Anton P. Mardesich (January 11, 1919 – June 10, 1949) was an American commercial fisherman and politician in the state of Washington. He served in the Washington House of Representatives in 1949 for district 38. He was killed in a fishing accident in 1949, along with his father, Nicola. His brother, August P. Mardesich, who had survived the ordeal, later succeeded him in the House of Representatives.


== References ==

Kori Udovički (born 4 December 1961) is a Serbian former politician. An independent politician, she previously served as deputy prime minister of Serbia and minister of public administration and local self-government from 2014 to 2016, governor of the National Bank of Serbia from 2003 to 2004, and minister of mining and energy from 2002 to 2003.
Prior to that position, she served as an Assistant Secretary-General of the United Nations, Assistant Administrator of the UNDP and Director of the Regional Bureau of UNDP for Europe and Commonwealth of Independent States (RBEC) from 2007 to 2012.
Previously she was the founder and the President of the Center for Advanced Economic Studies (CEVES), a Belgrade NGO that works for the advancement of economic research and education in South East Europe. She was also President of the Board of Directors of the Foundation for the Advancement of Economics (FREN). CEVES's main publication is Quarterly Monitor of Economic Trends and Policies in Serbia, a publication that systematically monitors macroeconomic, corporate and financial trends and policies in Serbia. It comes out in Serbian and English and is also posted on the CEVES and FREN websites. Kori Udovički was the Editor in Chief until February 2007.


== Personal life ==
Kori was born in La Paz (Bolivia) to a Serbian father and a Bolivian mother. She is married and has three children. Her maternal uncle is former President of Bolivia Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada. Her father Lazar Udovički was a politician in SFR Yugoslavia who served as ambassador in Uruguay and volunteer in Spanish Civil War. Kori is the sister-in-law of actor Rade Šerbedžija as he is married to her sister Lenka.


== Education and political career ==
She graduated from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Economics in 1984 she obtained an MA (1988) and a PhD (1999) in Economics from Yale University. She researched inter-regional trade and integration between the republics of the former Yugoslavia. More recently, she has studied the sustainability of Serbia's macroeconomic framework. From 1993 to 2001, she worked at the IMF in Washington, D.C., and then returned to Belgrade as Special Advisor to the Serbian Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs. In 2002, she became Minister of Energy and Mining in Serbian Government. She was appointed Governor of the National Bank of Serbia on July 23, 2003, a position she held until February 25, 2004, when her appointment was annulled due to the illegal use of a proxy vote in the Serbian parliament .


== References ==


== External links ==

RBEC (UNDP)
FREN

Catch Me! is an album by jazz guitarist Joe Pass that was released in 1963.


== Track listing ==


== Personnel ==
Joe Pass – guitar
Clare Fischer – piano, organ
Ralph Peña – double bass
Albert Stinson – double bass
Colin Bailey – drums
Larry Bunker – drums


== References ==

Rizal's 1st congressional district is one of the four congressional districts of the Philippines in the province of Rizal. It has been represented in the House of Representatives of the Philippines since 1916 and earlier in the Philippine Assembly from 1907 to 1916. The district consists of the southwestern Rizal municipalities of Angono, Binangonan, Cainta and Taytay. It is presently the most populous legislative district in the country, after the redistricting of Caloocan's 1st district in 2022. It is currently represented in the 20th Congress by Mia Ynares of the Nationalist People's Coalition (NPC).
Prior to its second dissolution in 1972, the district encompassed the former western Rizal municipalities and cities of Caloocan, Las Piñas, Makati, Malabon, Mandaluyong, Muntinlupa, Navotas, Parañaque, Pasay, Pateros, San Juan, and Taguig, as well as the western part of Quezon City, which had previously belonged to Caloocan and San Juan; such area now forms the majority of the present-day Metro Manila. After the creation of Metro Manila in 1975, it encompassed Antipolo and the southwestern part of the reduced province of Rizal beginning in 1987. In 1998, Antipolo was separated from the district to form its own representation as a newly converted city, leaving the four remaining municipalities in its current jurisdiction.


== Representation history ==


== Election results ==


=== 2025 ===


=== 2022 ===


=== 2019 ===


=== 2016 ===


=== 2013 ===


=== 2010 ===


=== 1994 special ===


== See also ==
Legislative districts of Rizal


== References ==

Alnwick was a local government district of Northumberland, England. Its council was based in the town of Alnwick and the district had a population of 31,029 according to the 2001 census.
It was one of the most rural and sparsely populated districts in the United Kingdom, having a resident population of 31,029 in an area of 1,079.51 square kilometres, according to the 2001 census. (That is 29 persons per km² compared with the UK average of 245 persons per km².) Just over 50% of the population was located in the three main towns of Alnwick (7,600), Amble (6,100) and Rothbury (2,500), with the remainder dispersed across large and small villages, hamlets and isolated dwellings.
It was the second most racially homogeneous community in the country, in the terms measured in the 2001 census with 99.6% of the population recording their ethnicity as White.
The district was formed on 1 April 1974 as a merger of the urban districts of Alnwick and Amble and the rural districts of Alnwick and Rothbury. The district was abolished as part of structural changes to local government in England effective from 1 April 2009. Its responsibilities were transferred to Northumberland County Council, which became a unitary authority.


== Politics ==

Elections to the district council were held every 4 years from 1973 to the last election in 2007. Independents, Conservatives and Liberal Democrats held majorities on the council at different times, but from 1995 onwards no party had a majority. As of the last election in 2007 the council was composed of the following councillors:-


== Settlements and parishes ==
The district included the settlements and parishes of:

Acklington, Alnham, Alnmouth, Alnwick, Alwinton, Amble By the Sea
Biddlestone, Brinkburn
Callaly, Cartington, Craster
Denwick
Edlingham, Eglingham, Elsdon, Embleton
Felton
Glanton
Harbottle, Hauxley, Hedgeley, Hepple, Hesleyhurst, Hollinghill
Lesbury, Longframlington, Longhoughton
Netherton, Newton-by-the-Sea, Newton-on-the-Moor and Swarland, Nunnykirk
Rennington, Rothbury, Rothley
Shilbottle, Snitter
Thropton, Togston
Warkworth, Whittingham, Whitton and Tosson


== Main towns ==


=== Alnwick ===
Alnwick was the largest of the three main towns in the district. It is a reasonably busy rural market town. According to Country Life, October 2002, "Alnwick is the most picturesque market town in Northumberland, and the best place to live in Britain". The town dates back approximately to the 7th century, and is the ancestral seat of the Duke of Northumberland, who still resides at Alnwick Castle. Historically, Alnwick was a fortified town, an agricultural centre and a staging post on the Great North Road between Edinburgh and London. The fabric of the town, in parts, reflects its history, although there has been much contemporary development.


=== Amble ===
The historic port of Amble is located on the River Coquet estuary and is the southern gateway to Northumberland's Heritage Coast.


=== Rothbury ===
Rothbury is a picturesque historic market town with its origins dating back to the 11th century. It is situated on the River Coquet, and provides a gateway to Upper Coquetdale and the Northumberland National Park.


== References ==


== External links ==
Alnwick District Council
Alnwick Castle
Alnwick Garden
Statistics about the Alnwick district from the Office for National Statistics Census 2001

Nossa Rádio is a Brazilian Christian radio network belonging to the Fundação Internacional de Comunicação, a media group of the International Grace of God Church, led by the missionary R. R. Soares.
Its programming is dedicated to songs by artists from the Graça Music label, broadcasts of services and preaching by the missionary R. R. Soares, and Pastor Jayme de Amorim Campos presents the program Na Mesa com o Senhor, which is broadcast live simultaneously by the stations of the Nossa Rádio network. The network also has a news program and public participation.


== History ==
In 2002, missionary R. R. Soares already had a presence on the radio through Rádio Relógio in Rio de Janeiro and Rádio Gospel in São Paulo, the latter facing litigation regarding its transmission location. In addition to radios, there was an expansion process of its television network, the RIT. In the second half of the same year, the missionary reached an agreement with businessman Orestes Quércia and leased two FM stations owned by him in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. The new project was called "Nossa Rádio."
In Rio de Janeiro, Nossa Rádio went on air on October 1, 2002, replacing the NovaBrasil FM branch. In São Paulo, the station debuted on December 1, 2002, replacing Manchete Gospel FM, which had migrated to its own frequency and was renamed Gospel FM.
Since 2018, Nossa Rádio has had a presence in the United States with the formation of Nossa Rádio USA, with programming similar to that of the Brazilian radio network and content aimed at Portuguese-speaking residents.


== Stations ==


=== Current ===


==== Southeast ====
Nossa Rádio (São Paulo, SP) 106.9 FM and 700 AM: This is the headquarters station of Rede Nossa Rádio.
Nossa Rádio (Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais) 97.3 FM. Radio granted in the municipality of Pedro Leopoldo (MG). Formerly called Rádio Altaneira. Corporate name: Rádio Grande BH LTDA.
Nossa Rádio (Vitória), ES) 96.5 FM.
Rádio Relógio (Rio de Janeiro, RJ) 580 AM: Retransmitted at certain times the programming of Nossa Rádio FM 89.3, which was also located in Rio de Janeiro.


==== Northeast ====
Nossa Rádio (Salvador, Bahia) 103.3 FM. has its transmission antenna located in Vera Cruz (i.e., the location that is granted). The station's address is on Rua Carlos Gomes, in Downtown Salvador, coinciding with the address of a Grace Church. The station's prefix is ZYC 370. In the morning, it broadcasts the program Good Morning Nossa Rádio. License information: CDB, PDF
Nossa Rádio (Fortaleza, Ceará) 97.7 FM  corporate name Rádio Costa do Sol, became Nossa Rádio on March 1, 2010
Nossa Rádio (Pernambuco, Recife) 106.9 FM.
Nossa Rádio (Teresina, Piauí) 


==== Midwest ====
Nossa Rádio (Goiânia, Goiás) 94.3 FM. Granted in Bonfinópolis.
And many other stations spread across Brazil.


=== Former ===
Nossa Rádio (Rio de Janeiro, RJ) 89.3 FM (From October 2002 until May 3, 2010) At certain times, the programming on Rádio Relógio was retransmitted. It was the first station to be named Nossa Rádio. It is currently Novabrasil FM Rio de Janeiro.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Zeze Steven Sessegnon (born 18 May 2000) is an English professional footballer who plays as a defender or midfielder for EFL League One club AFC Wimbledon.


== Club career ==


=== Fulham ===

On 28 June 2017, Sessegnon signed his first professional contract with Fulham, pledging his future to the West London club until 2020. He made his debut on 8 August 2017 in an EFL Cup first round tie against Wycombe Wanderers. He played the full ninety minutes in a Fulham win, playing the last nine minutes on the pitch with brother Ryan. He also featured in the following round two weeks later, a 1–0 home defeat to League One side Bristol Rovers. His first appearance in league football arrived on 16 August 2019 in the Championship versus Huddersfield Town.


==== Loans ====
Sessegnon signed a season-long loan deal with Championship club Bristol City on 7 September 2020.
On 31 January 2022, Sessegnon joined EFL League One side Plymouth Argyle on loan for the remainder of the 2021–22 season.
On 5 July 2022, Sessegnon joined League One side Charlton Athletic on loan for the 2022–23 season. On 11 March 2023, Sessegnon scored his first professional goal, scoring the equalising goal in a 1–1 draw between Charlton Athletic and Accrington Stanley.


=== Wigan Athletic ===
On 26 August 2023, Sessegnon signed for League One club Wigan Athletic on a two-year deal.
On 9 May 2025, Wigan said the player had been transfer listed.


=== AFC Wimbledon ===
On 25 June 2026, Sessegnon joined AFC Wimbledon on a two-year deal, with the option of a further year.


== International career ==
Sessegnon has represented England at U16 up to U20 level. His one appearance for the U16s came on 4 December 2015 versus Brazil.
Sessegnon was called up to the England squad for the 2017 FIFA U-17 World Cup in India. He featured five times, including a start in the final, as England won the trophy.
March 2018 saw Sessegnon win his first U18 caps, versus Qatar and Argentina respectively. In May 2018, Sessegnon was selected for the U18s squad for the 2018 Panda Cup.
His opening Under-19s call-up came in the following August for friendlies with the Netherlands and Belgium. He scored for the U19s on 14 November versus Moldova.
Sessegnon made his England U20 debut during the opening 2019 Toulon Tournament defeat to Japan on 1 June 2019.
On 30 August 2019, Sessegnon was included in the England U21 squad for the first time and made his debut during the 3–2 2021 U21 Euro qualifying win against Turkey on 6 September 2019.


== Personal life ==
He is the twin brother of fellow professional footballer, and former Fulham teammate, Ryan. Their older brother Chris plays football at semi-professional level, and they are cousins of Beninese international footballer Stéphane Sessègnon.


== Career statistics ==
As of 21 February 2026


== Honours ==
Fulham

EFL Championship play-offs: 2020
England U17

FIFA U-17 World Cup: 2017


== References ==


== External links ==

Steven Sessegnon at Soccerway

La finta giardiniera is a 1774 opera by Pasquale Anfossi to a libretto by Giuseppe Petrosellini, not Calzabigi, premiered at the Teatro delle Dame, Rome, for Carnival 1774. The opera by Mozart to the same libretto followed in Munich, 13 January 1775.


== Recording ==
Nuria Rial (Sandrina), Krystian Adam (Count Belfiore), Maria Espada (Ramiro), Katja Stuber (Arminda), Miljenko Turk (Podestà), Florian Götz (Nardo), Monika Reinhard (Serpetta) L'Arte del Mondo, Werner Ehrhardt 3CD 2013


== References ==

Litz can refer to:


== People ==
A. Walton Litz (1929–2014), American historian and educator
Deacon Litz (1897–1967), American racecar driver.
John Litz (born 1961), American politician.
Nadia Litz (born 1976), American actress.
Thomas Litz (born 1945), American figure skater.


== Other ==
Litz wire - a braided wire used in electronics.
Litz, Oise, a commune in northern France
Litz (Austria), a river in Austria
Litz (group), Filipino girl group
"LITZ", a band from Baltimore, Maryland

Matt Monger (born November 15, 1961) is an American former professional football player who was a linebacker in the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for the Oklahoma State Cowboys and was selected by the New York Jets in the eighth round of the 1985 NFL draft. He played for the Jets from 1985 to 1987 and for the Buffalo Bills from 1989 to 1990. During his time in the NFL, Matt completed his MBA and begin working as a Financial Advisor with Merrill Lynch.


== References ==

Akira Takayama (1932-1996) was a noted Japanese born economist - researching  international trade, both micro and macroeconomics, and monetary economics but always pushing a mathematical approach. Essentially he was a mathematical economist.  He travelled widely working at all the following universities: the International Christian University (1962-4), the University of Manchester (1964-5), Purdue University (1966-80o), Texas A&M University (1972-82), the University of Kyoto (1982-85), and  Southern Illinois University (1983-93) and he worked as an editor on the following journals: Journal of Macroeconomics, Journal of Economic Integration, Review of International Economics and Economics Letters.


== Selected publications ==
Textbooks

Takayama, A. (1985). Mathematical economics. Cambridge university press.
Takayama, A. (1993). Analytical methods in economics. University of Michigan Press.
Takayama, A. (1972). International trade; an approach to the theory.
Research

Takayama, A. (1982). On Theorems of General Competitive Equilibrium of Production and Trade. Keio Economic Studies, 19(1).
Takayama, A. (1963). On a Two-Sector Model of Economic Growth—A Comparative Statics Analysis—. The Review of Economic Studies, 30(2), 95-104.
Takayama, A. (1969). Behavior of the firm under regulatory constraint. The American Economic Review, 59(3), 255-260.


== References ==

Amagerbrogade is the main shopping street and thoroughfare of the part of Copenhagen, Denmark that is located on the island of Amager. It begins at the end of the causeway which connects Amager to Christianshavn and the city centre on the other side of the harbour, and runs south until it reaches the municipal border with Tårnby where it continues as Amager Landevej. The street marks the border between Amager Vest and Amager Øst, two of the ten official districts of Copenhagen.
Amagerbrogade arose when the country road leading in and out of Copenhagen's Amager Gate was urbanized towards the end of the 18th century after the city's old fortifications had been decommissioned and the no-built zone outside them released. It is one of four such -bro streets.


== History ==

Om the 18th century the road network outside Amager Gate was generally limited and in a poor state. From 1780 to 1790 the main road to Store Magleby and Dragør was upgraded but only a short stretch was cobbled. The first part of the road was 20 ells broad while the rest was only 14 alls broad. After Amager Gate was dismantled in 1857 and the fortifications were decommissioned, the northernmost part of Amager saw increasing development and in 1902 the area was incorporated into Copenhagen Municipality and the name was changed to Amagerbrogade.


== Cultural references ==
Amagerbrogade 4 is used as a location at 1:30:39 in the 1975 Olsen-banden film The Olsen Gang on the Track.


== References ==


== External links ==

Source

Cycling in Boston has been a popular activity since the late 19th century for both recreation and commuting, and it has grown in popularity in recent years, aided by improving cycling infrastructure. It is especially prevalent around the campuses of the numerous colleges and universities in the city.
Different areas in Boston have varying degrees of bike friendliness.


== History ==

At the end of the 19th century, cycling was especially popular in Boston, and Outing Magazine at the time described Boston as "the bicycling paradise of America." The city developed a strong culture of bicycling; the public parks proved popular among recreational cyclists and as venues for cycling sporting events. Annual Fourth of July racing events were held on the Boston Common after 1881, attracting as many as fifteen thousand people.
The city's cyclists were pivotal in the formation of the national organization League of American Wheelmen, and Massachusetts had the largest per capita membership in the league in the 1890s and the largest percentage of women members. The Boston chapter of the LAW advocated for favorable legal change, paving improvements and, increasing the adoption of the bicycle among the general public.


=== Decline ===
Frequent bicycle accidents with pedestrians led to the perception of cyclists as reckless and unsafe. A bike path proposal by the LAW across the Boston Common failed, facing opposition by those who argued that the implementation of a bike path encroached on pedestrian space and placed them in danger. Additionally, public opposition to cycling infrastructure forced organizations such as the LAW became more subdued in their messaging, dropping language which included cyclists and instead advocating for policies (such as improved paving of roads) which benefited a variety of road users.
With the popularization of the automobile in the early 20th century, urban cycling became more dangerous and fell further out of favor. Additionally, improved public transportation provided an alternative to driving and cycling. The Boston Central Subway opened in 1897, reducing streetcar congestion downtown, followed by the Atlantic Avenue Elevated in 1901, and the opening of the Cambridge and Dorchester Tunnels (now part of the Red Line) in 1912 and 1915 respectively.


== Resurgence ==


=== Activism ===

In the 1970s, popularity of cycling began to increase as a form of recreation among adults nationwide. In 1973, the United States Department of Transportation cosponsored the Bicycles U.S.A. Conference in Cambridge, MA, where the government and activists worked to develop a vision for urban cycling. The renewed attention to cycling, and Boston's successful highway revolt, provided activists an opportunity to work with the city to install a shared use path along the new Southwest Corridor Park. Since the 1970s, the Southwest Corridor Park's shared use path has become one of its defining features, popular for both recreation and commuting, with three quarters of park users saying they ride their bikes.
Boston's chapter of Critical Mass, a recreational group working to promote of urban cycling and raise awareness of its dangers, has been meeting since 1999. The group of cyclists have been a source of controversy for their group rides, which occupy large portions of the road and slow traffic.


=== Infrastructure ===

Boston began constructing new bike lanes in 2007 under the Boston Bikes program, adding over 90 miles of bike lanes between 2007 and 2014. These improvements helped to increase the share of commuters on bikes from 1 percent to 2.4 percent, while preventing an increase in bicyclist injuries and fatalities.
In 2015, the City of Boston adopted a Vision Zero policy, seeking analyze and prevent fatal crashes among pedestrians, bicyclists, and drivers. Through this policy, the city has expanded its bicycle network beyond its parks with the goal of creating safe routes for recreation and commuting. Additionally, the city is working on improving the quality of existing bike lanes, improving the separation between bicyclists and vehicles by adding space, flex posts, or curbs. In 2017, Boston lowered its city-wide speed limit from 30 mph to 25 mph to reduce the likelihood of serious injury or death for pedestrians struck by vehicles.


=== Opposition ===
In February 2025, following pushback from residents and business owners, Mayor Michelle Wu announced a review of road infrastructure changes in the prior 3 years. Many business owners were concerned about loss of traffic from the reduction of driving and parking lanes to accommodate bus and bike lanes throughout the city. In some places, such as along Massachusetts Avenue and Arlington Street, protective barriers were removed by mid-spring 2025. Since then, the installation of further infrastructure changes has been slowed.


=== Bike Sharing ===

Bluebikes (named Hubway until 2018) launched as the city's bicycle sharing system on July 28, 2011, with 610 bicycles and 60 stations in the City of Boston. The system expanded to Brookline, Cambridge, and Somerville the following year. In subsequent years, docks were introduced in Arlington, Chelsea, Everett, Malden, Medford, Newton, Revere, Salem, and Watertown. By the end of 2024, Bluebikes had deployed 5,500 bikes and 520 stations. PBSC Urban Solutions, a company based in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, supplied bikes and docking stations.
The system is operated by Motivate. In 2024, it had more than 29,000 annual members, with over 4.7 million trips system-wide.
From May 9, 2018, the system was rebranded as Bluebikes following a marketing deal with Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts.


== References ==


== External links ==
Bikes | City of Boston
Hubway
Bicycle New England

Ali Ghodsi (born 1978) is an Iranian-Swedish-American  computer scientist and entrepreneur, specializing in distributed systems, big data and data management. He is a co-founder and CEO of Databricks and an adjunct professor at UC Berkeley. He coauthored several influential papers, including Apache Mesos and Apache Spark SQL.
Ghodsi received his PhD from KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Sweden, advised by Seif Haridi. He was a co-founder of Peerialism AB, a Stockholm-based company developing a peer-to-peer data transfer system. He was also an assistant professor at KTH from 2008 to 2009.
He joined UC Berkeley in 2009 as a visiting scholar and worked with Scott Shenker, Ion Stoica, Michael Franklin, and Matei Zaharia on research projects in distributed systems, database systems, and networking. During this period, he helped start the Apache Mesos and Apache Spark projects. He also co-invented the concept of Dominant resource fairness, in a paper that heavily influenced resource management and scheduling design in distributed systems such as Hadoop.
In 2013, he co-founded Databricks, a company that commercializes Spark, and became chief executive in 2016.


== Education ==
2006, PhD, Computer Science, KTH/Royal Institute of Technology
2003, MBA, Logistics and Marketing, Mid-Sweden University
2002, MSc, Computer Engineering, Mid-Sweden University
1997, BSE, Electrical and Computer Engineering


== Research Interests ==
Ali Ghodsi received his PhD in 2006 from KTH/Royal Institute of Technology in the area of Distributed Computing. His research interests include distributed systems, cloud computing, big data computing, and networking. Education
2006, PhD, Computer Science, KTH/Royal Institute of Technology
2002, MBA, Logistics and Marketing, Mid-Sweden University
2002, MSc, Computer Engineering, Mid-Sweden University


== References ==

Amir Yacoby is a condensed matter physicist and professor at Harvard University.


== Education ==
Yacoby got bachelor’s degree in aeronautical engineering and a master’s degree in theoretical physics. In 1994, he obtained his PhD at Weizmann Institute of Science under the supervision of Professor Moty Heiblum.


== Career ==
In 2006, Yacoby started teaching at Harvard. He was appointed as the Lazaridis Chair in Physics of the Institute for Quantum Computing in 2013. In March 2014, his group developed a magnetic resonance imaging technology by which nanoscale images can be provided, that could enable researchers to peer into the atomic structure of individual molecules. In 2014, Yacoby was named a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.


== References ==


== External links ==
Amir Yacoby publications indexed by Google Scholar

Amaru Entertainment (formerly Amaru Records) was a record label founded in 1997 by Afeni Shakur after the death of her son Tupac Amaru Shakur. The label was created to handle the release of Tupac's previously unreleased material, and was given the rights to release recordings made during his time at both Interscope and Death Row Records, as well as the rights to re-release his Interscope albums 2Pacalypse Now, Strictly 4 My N.I.G.G.A.Z..., Thug Life, Volume I, and Me Against the World. The label initially distributed its releases through Jive Records, beginning with R U Still Down? (Remember Me), but, as of 2011, the releases were being distributed by Interscope. Amaru has released 11 posthumous albums by 2Pac, as well as a documentary, titled Tupac: Resurrection.
On May 2, 2016, Afeni Shakur died of a heart attack. Since Afeni's passing, Amaru Entertainment has been managed by Tom Whalley, the music executive who signed Tupac to Interscope Records. Sekyiwa "Set" Shakur, Tupac's younger half-sister and president of the Tupac Amaru Shakur Foundation, has been in an ongoing litigation with Tom Whalley over control of Amaru Entertainment and Tupac's estate.


== Controversy ==


=== Lee Ha-neul "Miari Vox" remarks and the legal dispute ===
While promoting their song "Xcstasy", Lee Ha-neul, a member of the fellow Korean hip-hop group DJ DOC, appeared as a guest on the cable TV channel Mnet "Hip Hop the Vibe" segment and publicly criticized South Korean girl group Baby Vox, accusing them of commercially exploiting a deceased person. In response, American rapper, Floss P countered Lee remarks, stating, "I appreciate the criticism. We did our best with Baby Vox's music, but it seems we fell short of Mr. Ha-neul musicality." However, I also believe DJ DOC's rapping merely borrowed American rap styles. It appears to lack a distinct identity. It does not seem proper for a public figure to criticize others by claiming "it is not someone else's work while utilizing their own work." Upon seeing these remarks, Lee Ha-neul subsequently posted a lengthy message on his website slandering Baby Vox and Floss P. In the process, he caused a major controversy by using the sexually derogatory term "Miari Vox," inflicting significant damage on Baby Vox's image. In response, Baby Vox side took a hardline stance, sending an ultimatum to Lee Ha-neul to apologize by June 19. Lee Ha-neul held an official press conference and apologized, stating that his choice of the word "Miari Vox" was a blunt expression even in his own opinion. However, regarding Baby Vox agency, he said, "Think about which is greater: the defamation you suffered or the honor of Shakur you tarnished," adding, "I think the latter is greater." Consequently, Yoon Deung-ryong, CEO of DR Music, filed a criminal lawsuit against Lee Ha-neul. Fellow entertainer Kim Jin-pyo posted on his website pointing out that the incident stemmed from Baby Vox including a rap by American rapper Tupac Shakur in their recent album, stating, "Anyway, I have a feeling Tupac will be laughing a little because of this." Many fans of hip-hop artists also directed meaningful criticism at Baby Vox. Regarding this incident, a music industry insider, Mr. Kang, stated, "Hip-hop musicians attacking idol stars is a common form of "diss" in the American hip-hop scene," adding, "While it feels like Lee Ha-neul is imitating Eminem, the repercussions are expected to be significant given that he indiscriminately attacked a specific celebrity."


=== Tupac Records copyright lawsuit ===
Amaru Records, founded by Shakur's mother, announced that they would sue Baby Vox and their agency to stop the use of Shakur's music and trademarks without a license agreement. In response, Baby Vox appealed against the accusation, stating that "the sampling of Shakur's music was done legally after receiving an offer from a company at Bungaroo Music, the mecca of American hip-hop." They further explained that Amaru does not hold all of Shakur copyrights, so there is no legal issue, and that Shakur's copyrights are shared by several labels including Tupac State and Interscope, in addition to Amaru. They also revealed that they released their last album after purchasing the rights to use music, portraits, and video for the Asian region from Death Row and DTTG last November. Ultimately, the incident was concluded as a mere misunderstanding after it was confirmed that they had legally purchased the music.


== See also ==
Lists of record labels


== References ==

The 2025–26 PBA Philippine Cup, also referred to as the PBA season 50 Philippine Cup, was the first conference of the 2025–26 PBA season of the Philippine Basketball Association (PBA). The 50th PBA Philippine Cup started on October 5, 2025 and ended on February 1, 2026. A break was held from November 17 to December 4 to make way for the first window of 2027 FIBA Basketball World Cup qualifiers. The tournament does not allow teams to hire foreign players or imports.
This is the first conference of the Titan Ultra Giant Risers in the league, following Pureblends Corporation's acquisition of the NorthPort Batang Pier franchise. The San Miguel Beermen entered this conference as the defending Philippine Cup champions, and successfully defended the title in a rematch of the last year's finals against the TNT Tropang 5G.


== Format ==
All participating teams play in a single round-robin elimination, with each team playing 11 games throughout the duration of the conference.
Teams are ranked by win-loss records with the top eight teams advancing to the playoffs. Any ties are broken using tiebreaker criteria.
Beginning with this conference, there will no longer be a one-game playoff for the eighth seed in case of a tie. The standard tiebreakers will be used instead.
The playoff formats are as follows:
Quarterfinals (higher seeds twice-to-beat):
QF1: #1 vs #8
QF2: #2 vs #7
QF3: #3 vs #6
QF4: #4 vs #5
Semifinals (best-of-seven series):
SF1: QF1 winner vs. QF4 winner
SF2: QF2 winner vs. QF3 winner
Finals (best-of-seven series)


== Elimination round ==


=== Team standings ===


=== Results table ===


== Bracket ==
*Game went into overtime


== Quarterfinals ==
The top four seeds have the twice-to-beat advantage; they have to be beaten twice, while their opponents just once, to advance.


=== (1) San Miguel vs. (8) NLEX ===


=== (2) Rain or Shine vs. (7) Meralco ===


=== (3) TNT vs. (6) Magnolia ===


=== (4) Converge vs. (5) Barangay Ginebra ===


== Semifinals ==


=== (1) San Miguel vs. (5) Barangay Ginebra ===


=== (3) TNT vs. (7) Meralco ===


== Finals ==


== Awards ==


=== Players of the Week ===


== Statistics ==


=== Individual statistical leaders ===


=== Individual game highs ===


=== Team statistical leaders ===


== References ==

Hutchinson's sign is a clinical sign which may refer to:

Hutchinson's pupil, an unresponsive and enlarged pupil on the side of an intracranial mass
Vesicles on the tip of the nose, or vesicles on the side of the nose, precedes the development of ophthalmic herpes zoster.  This occurs because the nasociliary branch of the trigeminal nerve innervates both the cornea and the lateral dorsum of the nose as well as the tip of the nose. This sign is named after Sir Jonathan Hutchinson.

Melanonychia with pigmentation of the proximal nail fold. This is an important sign of subungual melanoma although is not an infallible predictor. Periungual hyperpigmentation occurs in at least one nonmelanoma skin cancer, Bowen's disease of the nail unit. This is a nail fold pigmentation which then widens progressively to produce a triangular pigmented macule with associated nail dystrophy. Hyperpigmentation of the nail bed and matrix may reflect through the "transparent" nailfolds simulating Hutchinson's sign.
Hutchinson's triad - pattern of presentation of congenital syphilis.


== See also ==
Green nail sign
List of cutaneous conditions


== References ==

Gareth Edwards may refer to:

Gareth Edwards (rugby union) (born 1947), Welsh rugby union player
Gareth Edwards (Welsh cricketer) (born 1976), Welsh cricketer
Gareth Edwards (Berkshire cricketer) (born 1973), English cricketer
Gareth Edwards (filmmaker) (born 1975), British filmmaker
Gareth Edwards (producer) (born 1965), British radio and television writer and producer


== See also ==
Gary Edwards (disambiguation)
Gareth Evans (disambiguation)

Mylapore is a legislative assembly constituency of the Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is a historic urban seat in the Chennai district, in existence since 1951, and is listed at number 25 amongst the state's 234 assembly constituencies. It includes its namesake Chennai locality Mylapore and surrounding areas such as Alwarpet, Raja Annamalaipuram, Foreshore Estate, Santhome, Mandaveli, Nandanam, and parts of Teynampet. The constituency is generally considered a cultural hub, hosting a diverse population.  
The famous Kapaleeshwarar temple, Santhome Cathedral Basilica, the Lighthouse and southern stretches of the Marina Beach are situated in this constituency. During Indian general elections, the Mylapore constituency is a part of the larger Chennai South constituency that sends a Member of Parliament (MP) to the Lok Sabha. The current Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) representing Mylapore is P. Venkataramanan of the TVK. 


== Overview ==


=== Boundaries ===
As per orders of the Delimitation Commission, the Mylapore assembly constituency consists of seven wards of the Greater Chennai Corporation: wards 121, 122, 123, 124, 125 and 126 from the ninth zone (Teynampet) and ward 173 from the 13th zone (Adyar). This composition brings the focal neighbourhood of Mylapore, and its environs Alwarpet, Raja Annamalaipuram, Foreshore Estate, Santhome, Mandaveli, and Nandanam in a single constituency, alongside some parts of Teynampet. The constituency is bound by the Adyar river in the south, the Marina Beach in the east, and the Mount Road in the west. The Buckingham Canal traverses north-east to south-west through the constituency.


=== Character ===
The constituency is entirely urban, situated at the heart of Chennai. It is a mix of affluent neighbourhoods, working-class settlements, commercial areas, and religious establishments. It stretches all the way from the upscale streets of Boat Club in the east to the impoverished fishing hamlets (kuppam) dotting the seashore, and from the backwater estuary of Adyar in the south to the dense streets of interior Chennai. Amidst its posh residential areas, pockets of slums and housing board townships are also found. The constituency hosts various temples and churches, making it a culturally vibrant seat. Examples include the Kapaleeshwarar Temple, Mundaka Kanni Amman Temple, Thiruvalluvar Temple, Ramakrishna Math, Luz Church,Santhome Cathedral etc. 
Hindus are the majority of the voters, with the Brahmin sect having a dominant presence in the central parts of the constituency. Elsewhere, Christians, Backward Class Hindus and Scheduled Castes form a voting bloc. Muslims also have a considerable presence. Following the 2026 Special Intensive Revision (SIR) of electoral rolls, the total number of voters in Mylapore is 1,94,731, where female voters outnumber men by around 4 percent.
The issues raised by the voters of Mylapore constituency are mainly civic, such as water logging during rains, flood-prone banks of the Buckingham Canal, land waste management, slum clearance, and traffic congestion. 


== Electoral history ==


=== List of MLAs ===


==== Madras State ====


==== Tamil Nadu ====


== Polls ==


=== 2026 ===


=== 2021 ===


=== 2016 ===


=== 2011 ===


=== 2006 ===


=== 2001 ===


=== 1996 ===


=== 1994 by-election ===


=== 1991 ===


=== 1989 ===


=== 1984 ===


=== 1980 ===


=== 1977 ===


=== 1971 ===


=== 1967 ===


=== 1962 ===


=== 1957 ===


=== 1952 ===


== References ==

"Statistical reports of assembly elections". Election Commission of India. Archived from the original on 5 October 2010. Retrieved 8 July 2010.

Susan Laura Mizruchi (July 13, 1959) is professor of English literature and the William Arrowsmith Professor in the Humanities at Boston University. Her research interests include nineteenth- and twentieth-century American literature, religion and culture, literary and social theory, literary history, history of the social sciences, and American and Global Film and TV. Since 2016, she has served as the director of the Boston University Center for the Humanities.


== Education and academic career ==
Mizruchi received her B.A. in English and in history from Washington University in St. Louis in 1981 and her Ph.D. from Princeton University in 1985. In 1986 she joined Boston University as an assistant professor of English. She was promoted to associate professor in 1992 and full professor in 1998. In 2017 she was named the inaugural William Arrowsmith Professor in the Humanities.
Among her honors and grants, Mizruchi has been awarded fellowships from the Guggenheim Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the Fulbright Commission.
Since 2016 Mizruchi has served as the director of the Boston University Center for the Humanities (BUCH). Under her directorship, BUCH has hosted forums on “Libraries and Archives in the Digital Age” (2017), “Humanities Approaches to the Opioid Crisis” (2018), and “Can We Talk: Dialogue and Debate in the Contemporary Academy” (2019).  
In 2020, the Teagle Foundation awarded BUCH a grant to develop "The One & the Many at BU," a summer residential humanities program for Boston-area high school students.


== Writing and academic work ==
Mizruchi's short story "Like a Rose Rabbi" appeared in the Winter 1983 issue of the Kansas Quarterly (now the Arkansas Review). 
Mizruchi’s first book, The Power of Historical Knowledge: Narrating the Past in Hawthorne, James, and Dreiser (Princeton UP, 1988), examines acts of historical narration in American literature. The book includes readings of Nathaniel Hawthorne's The House of the Seven Gables (1851), Henry James' The Wings of the Dove (1902), and Theodore Dreiser's An American Tragedy (1925). Writing in the New England Quarterly, Amy Kaplan praised Mizruchi for "persuasively discovers[ing] the pressure of history everywhere, and ... acutely gaug[ing] its impact on precisely those texts that seem to float freely above historical contingency."
Mizruchi's second book, The Science of Sacrifice: American Literature and Modern Social Theory (Princeton UP, 1998), looks at sacrifice in American literature and social theory of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The book coordinates the rise of the field of sociology with literary representations of sacrifice, reading the social theory of Émile Durkheim and W. E. B. Du Bois alongside the fiction of Herman Melville and Henry James. A feature on the book appeared in the Chronicle of Higher Education, noting Mizruchi's standing at the forefront of "a growing number of scholars who approach religion in American life through interdisciplinary study." Nan Goodman's review in American Literature highlighted Mizruchi's treatment of literary realism, commending "Mizruchi's recognition that realism interacted with others theories of social order – the new disciplines of sociology and psychology, for example – [as] one of the many things that makes her book so significant." In a review for the American Journal of Sociology, Alan Sica praised the book's "innovative and thickly constructed interdisciplinary writing," labeling it "excellent social theory." 
In 2005, Mizruchi’s "Becoming Multicultural: Culture Economy, and the Novel, 1860-1920" appeared in The Cambridge History of American Literature: Vol. 3, Prose Writing, 1860–1920 (Cambridge UP). The other contributions to that volume are Richard H. Brodhead's "The American Literary Field, 1860–1890"; Nancy Bentley's "Literary Forms and Mass Culture, 1870–1920"; and Walter Benn Michaels' "Promises of American Life, 1880–1920." Edited by Sacvan Bercovitch, the eight volumes of The Cambridge History of American Literature cover poetry, prose writing, and criticism from 1590 to the end of the twentieth century. In a review in the Journal of American Studies, Richard Gray called The Cambridge History of American Literature "without doubt and without any serious rival, the scholarly history for our generation." 
The Rise of Multicultural America: Economy and Print Culture, 1865–1915 (University of North Carolina Press), a revised and expanded version of "Becoming Multicultural," came out in 2008. Examining literature, photography, and advertisements produced in the half-century after the American Civil War, Mizruchi's book argues that rapid corporate capitalist development and high immigration rates fostered the idea of multiculturalism. Mizruchi's book covers an eclectic range of print culture, including the Civil War photography of Alexander Gardner; Albion W. Tourgée's Reconstruction-era writings; the career and writings of the Santee Sioux physician Charles Eastman; the advertisements that framed the serialized publication of Jack London's The Call of the Wild (1903) in the Saturday Evening Post; and Charlotte Perkins Gilman's feminist-utopian novel Herland (1915).  
In 2014, Mizruchi published a biography of Marlon Brando, Brando’s Smile: His Life, Thought, and Work (Norton). The book is based on Mizruchi’s extensive research in Brando’s private archives, which she spent years tracking down after many of Brando’s belongings were auctioned off following his death in 2004. Drawing on Brando’s personal film scripts, Mizruchi presents him as a scrupulous actor who often edited and improved his own lines, including some of his most iconic lines in On the Waterfront and The Godfather. Furthermore, Mizruchi views the 4,000 books that made up Brando’s personal library as evidence of his intellectual curiosity and informed commitment to the civil rights movement.
Brando’s Smile garnered considerable attention in the mainstream press. David Kirby's review in the Washington Post praised the book as a "smooth-reading and informative portrait." Writing in the Wall Street Journal, Scott Eyman described the book as "an 'intellectual biography' of man who wasn't an intellectual in the conventional sense." Antonia Quirke of the Financial Times called Brando's Smile an "always interesting, addictive book," with the publication later naming it one of its Best Books of 2014. Additionally, the book received a starred review in Booklist and coverage in the New York Times the New York Review of Books.
In August 2021, Mizruchi appeared on a podcast, Since the World's been Turning, to discuss Brando and his legacy.
Mizruchi’s Henry James: A Very Short Introduction was published by Oxford University Press in June 2021. Publishers Weekly has praised the book's "swift, efficient approach to James’s oeuvre [as] perfect for students and general readers." In a piece for The Millions, Mizruchi listed her top ten Henry James works, ranking The Portrait of a Lady (1881) number one.
Mizruchi has edited two academic volumes. The first, Religion and Cultural Studies (Princeton UP, 2001), collects essays premised on the observation that "religion [is] a significant and under-studied instance of the 'multicultural.'" The second, Libraries and Archives in the Digital Age (Palgrave Macmillan, 2020), brings together essays that address the evolving roles of librarians and archivists. Contributors to the collection include former director of the Harvard University Library Robert Darnton and the Argentine-Canadian writer Alberto Manguel, a former director of the National Library of Argentina.


== Awards, fellowships, grants, and lectures ==
Annual Vardi Memorial Lecture, Tel Aviv University, 2019
William Arrowsmith Endowed Chair in Humanities, Boston University, 2017–
Fulbright Award, Brazil, 2015
Arts and Sciences Dean’s Award for Excellence in Graduate Education, Boston University, 2015
Senior Research Fellowship, Boston University Humanities Foundation, 2008–09
Raymond Schwager Memorial Lecturer, Notre Dame University, 2010
Certificates of Appreciation, Boston University Class of 2007, 2008 Teacher Honoree
Distinguished Teaching Award, Boston University Honors Program, 2001
Selection Committee for the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, 2001
John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation Fellowship, 2001–02
Radcliffe Institute For Advanced Study, Senior Fellowship, 2001 (declined)
American Council of Learned Societies, Senior Fellowship, 2001 (declined)
Fulbright Visiting Professorship at Tel Aviv University, June, 1996 (declined)
Fletcher S. Jones Fellowship, The Huntington Library, 1995
Howard S. Eckles Fellowship, University of Utah Humanities Center, 1994–95 (declined)
Research Affiliate, Woodrow Wilson Center, Smithsonian (1990–91)
National Endowment for the Humanities Research Fellowship for University Teachers (1990–91)
Junior Research Fellowship, Boston University Humanities Foundation, 1988–89
Harold S. Dodds Dissertation Fellowship, Princeton University, 1984-85
Princeton University Graduate Fellowship, 1981–83
Award for Fiction, Kansas Quarterly Prizes, 1983


== Professional activity ==
Reviewer, John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, 2021
Advisory Board of Museum of Fine Arts, 2018
Board Member of The Boston Public Library’s Anti-Slavery Collection, 2017–
National Humanities Association, Conference Planning Committee, 2016–
Advisory Board of The History Makers, 2016-
U.S. Delegate for Literature, Film, and Media Studies, Oxford University Press, 2016–
U.S. Delegate for Literature, Oxford University Press, 2011–16
Advisory Council, Princeton University English Dept., 2013–
Consultant, PBS, American Masters documentaries, 2014–
Consultant, Canadian Government, Concordia University, English Ph.D. Program, 2014
Tenure Review Committees: University of Notre Dame, 2014; Harvard University, 2009; University of Michigan, 2009; University of Pennsylvania, 2007; University of Kentucky, 2004
Reviewer, Hong Kong Institute of Education, 2013, 2014, 2015
Reviewer for American Council of Learned Societies, Fellowships, 2011, 2012, 2013
Reader for Oxford University Press, Harvard University Press, Duke University Press, University of Chicago Press, Princeton University Press, Ohio State University Press, PMLA, Early American Literature, Modern Fiction Studies, American Quarterly, American Literary History, History of the Human Sciences.
Consultant, National Endowment for the Humanities, 1990–95, 2000–06
Selection Committee for the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study, 2002–03
Faculty of the Teachers as Scholars Program, Harvard Graduate School of Education, 1999–2005, 2010–11, 2014–
Modern Language Association Committee on Prize for Best First Book, 1991
Panelist/Reviewer, National Endowment for the Humanities, Fellowships for University Teacher, 1989


== Personal life ==
Mizruchi's father Ephraim was a sociologist who taught at Syracuse University. He was the author of notable works of sociology including Success and Opportunity: A Study of Anomie (1964), The Substance of Sociology: Codes, Conduct, and Consequences (1967), and Regulating Society: Marginality and Social Control in Historical Perspective (1983). Her mother Ruth was a lecturer in literature and composition at Syracuse University and Le Moyne College. She has two brothers, David and Mark.
Mizruchi was married to the literary and cultural critic Sacvan Bercovitch until his death in 2014, with whom she had a son, Alexander Philip Bercovitch ("Sascha") born in 1992.


== Bibliography ==


=== As writer ===
The Power of Historical Knowledge: Narrating the Past in Hawthorne, James, and Dreiser (Princeton UP, 1988)
The Science of Sacrifice: American Literature and Modern Social Theory (Princeton UP, 1998)
Becoming Multicultural: Culture, Economy, and the Novel, 1860–1920 (Cambridge UP, 2005)
The Rise of Multicultural America (North Carolina UP, 2008)
Brando’s Smile: His Life, Thought, and Work (Norton, 2014)
Henry James: A Very Short Introduction (Oxford UP, 2021)


=== As editor ===
Religion and Cultural Studies (Princeton UP, 2001)
Libraries and Archives in the Digital Age (Palgrave Macmillan, 2020)


=== Selected articles and chapters/sections of books ===
“Cataloging the Creatures of the Deep: Billy Budd and the Rise of Sociology,” Revisionary Interventions into the Americanist Canon (1994) and Boundary 2 (1990)
“Neighbors, Strangers, Corpses: Death and Sympathy in the Early Writings of W.E.B. Du Bois,” Centuries’ Ends, Narrative Means (1996) and The Norton Critical Edition of The Souls of Black Folk (1999)
“Lolita in History,” American Literature (2003)
“Becoming Multicultural: Culture, Economy, and the Novel, 1860–1920,” in Cambridge History of American Lit. vol. 3: Prose Writing, 1860–1920 (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005)
“Risk Theory and the Contemporary American Novel,” American Literary History (2009)
“The School of Martyrdom: Culture and Class in The Catcher in the Rye” Religion and Literature (Summer 2015), pp. 23–40.


== References ==

Shinkafi is a Local Government Area in Zamfara State, Nigeria.
It is also a surname and may refer to:

Mahmud Shinkafi, Nigerian politician, governor of Zamfara state, Nigeria from 2007 to 2011
Mamuda Aliyu Shinkafi, Nigerian politician, governor of Zamfara State in 2007
Umaru Shinkafi (1937–2016), Nigerian politician, intelligence chief, and Federal Commissioner of Internal Affairs

Tarnya Cooper is an English art historian and author who is currently the National Trust's Curatorial & Collections Director.
She has previously been the Chief Curator and Curatorial Director at the National Portrait Gallery, London.


== Education and employment ==
Cooper received her MA in art history from the Courtauld Institute of Art in 1996 where she studied Dutch and Flemish art. She obtained a DPhil from the University of Sussex in 2002. The title of her thesis (2001) was: Memento mori portraiture: painting, Protestant culture and the patronage of middle elites in England and Wales, 1540 - 1630.
She was Assistant Curator of the College Art Collections and taught art history at University College London.
She moved to the NPG in 2002 to become the 16th Century Curator. She led the seven-year "Making Art in Tudor Britain" project. This project encompassed a detailed and comprehensive scientific survey of Tudor paintings in the NPG. The NPG received a grant from the Getty Foundation to enable her to write Citizen Portrait based in part on her D Phil dissertation together with her research in her role as curator at the NPG. In 2010 she was awarded a senior research fellowship by the Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art which enabled her to complete the book.
She was appointed Chief Curator at the NPG in 2011 and was elected as a fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London in June of that year.
In January 2018, she became the National Trust's Curatorial & Collections Director. In this role she will deliver the Trust’s curatorial strategy, including research, engagement, and care for collections and buildings.


== Exhibitions ==
During her time at UCL, she curated two exhibitions from the college's collections. She co-curated (with David Starkey) the exhibition Elizabeth I at the National Maritime Museum in 2003 and was a contributor to the catalogue.
She curated Searching for Shakespeare at the National Portrait Gallery in 2006. She was the curator of the exhibition Elizabeth I & her people which was held at the NPG from October 2013 to January 2014. This exhibition included a miniature portrait of Elizabeth I found in a house clearance in 2012, that Cooper described as "a very high quality image by a 16th-century artist".
She also curated the display The Real Tudors at the National Portrait Gallery (12 September 2014 – 1 March 2015), which includes results from the NPG's "Making Art in Tudor Britain" research project. She is co-editor of Painting in Britain 1500 - 1630: Production, Influences, and Patronage, an interdisciplinary survey published by the British Academy and Oxford University Press in 2015.


== Publications ==
Cooper, Tarnya, ed. (1997). Refashioning Death; Vanitas and Memento Mori Prints from Northern Europe, 1514-c1640. University College.
Cooper, Tarnya, ed. (2000). Drawing Practices, Mediums and Methods, 1500–1950. University College.
Cooper, Tarnya (2003). "The Queen's Visual Presence". In Starkey, David (ed.). Elizabeth I; The Exhibition Catalogue. Chatto & Windus.
Cooper, Tarnya (2006). Searching for Shakespeare. National Portrait Gallery Publications.
Cooper, Tarnya (2008). Tudor and Jacobean Portraiture. National Portrait Gallery Publications.
Cooper, Tarnya (2010). "The enchantment of the familiar face". In Hamling, Tara; Richardson, Catherine (eds.). Everyday Objects: Medieval and Early Modern Material Culture and Its Meanings. Ashgate Publishing. p. 173.
Cooper, Tarnya (2012). Citizen Portrait. Yale University Press.
Cooper, Tarnya; Archer, Ian W; Orlin, Lena Cowen (2013). Elizabeth I & Her People. National Portrait Gallery. ISBN 978-1855144651.
Cooper, Tarnya; Bolland, Charlotte (2014). The Real Tudors : kings and queens rediscovered. London: National Portrait Gallery. ISBN 9781855144927.
Cooper, Tarnya; Burnstock, Aviva; Howard, Maurice; Town, Edward, eds. (2015). Painting in Britain 1500 - 1630: production, influences and patronage. Oxford: Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780197265840.


== References ==


== External links ==
Making Art in Tudor Britain
The Faces of a King

The Scottish Six Days Trial is an internationally recognised Motorcycle trials competition, which has been running since 1909 (with breaks for the two world wars) making it the oldest motorcycle trials event in the world. Motorcycle riders from all over the world compete in this extreme sport, covering as much as 100 miles a day on road and off-road routes around Lochaber on each of the six days. The event is a trial of the skill, consistency and endurance of the riders, as well as a test of the specialised motorcycles used.


== History ==
The inaugural Scottish motorcycle trial was held in July 1909 and was a five-day event devised by Campbell McGregor of the Edinburgh Motor Cycle Club.
Originally, the trial started in Edinburgh, going to John O'Groats before returning to Edinburgh. It aimed to be the most challenging motorcycle trial ever held. The Edinburgh & District Club organised the event from 1911. Prior to that event the organisers were a combination of local clubs in the Edinburgh area.
By 1912 the event was known as the "Scottish Six Days Open Reliability Trial" and by 1914 rules were agreed together with a marking system and time penalties for machine faults. The outbreak of the First World War halted competition but the Six Days Trial returned in 1919. Problems with following the route were solved by marking the course with yellow ochre from a barrel mounted on a car (a system which stayed in place until the mid-1970s, when the present system of marker arrows and orange flags for off-road sections was introduced). The scoring system was updated in 1926 to allow for condition, hillclimbing and brake testing but the event was still a test of motorcycle reliability.
From the 1930s factory teams became more prevalent and in 1932 the results system was further amended to identify an outright winner. In 1938, Fort William was chosen as the central point of the trial although, it still started and ended in Edinburgh. The outbreak of World War II stopped competition until 1947, when 108 competitors took part.
In 1977, the event broke its link with Edinburgh and the event started and finished in Fort William. This was due to the Gathering of the Clans taking up a sizeable amount of accommodation in the Capital. The organisers were forced to move the start and finish to Fort William, but it proved very popular move, as it assisted the logistics of the trial for both competitors and officials. During the 1970s and 1980s, the Scottish Six Days Trial grew in popularity and was established as the most important event for trials motorcycles.


== The club ==
The Edinburgh & District Motor Club Ltd is based in Edinburgh and was formed through the amalgamation of several Edinburgh based motor clubs in 1911. The headquarters of the Edinburgh & District Motor Club Ltd and hence the SSDT was at 28 Nelson Street, Edinburgh until 2001 when the premises were sold for redevelopment. It is the recognised organisation responsible body for the Scottish Six Days Trial. The club decided to celebrate 100 years of the event in 2011, this resulted in a massive over-subscription of the trial. Since the 1940s the event has been known as "A Sporting Holiday in The Highlands" but in reality it is a truly competitive event.


== The 1950s and 1960s ==
Over the years particular makes of machine appear to have dominated the trial. One such make was the AJS. Manufactured by Associated Motor Cycles (AMC) in Plumstead, South East London, England, the rugged and reliable AJS Model 16 was considered ideal for the demands of the Scottish Trial, with modifications including upgrading the frame to a welded duplex tubular frame with an engine cradle to reduce weight and redesigned exhaust and footrests to improve ground clearance. In 1957 it was further redesigned to increase clearance from 7 inches to 10 inches. Hugh Viney led the AJS works team in the post war years and won the challenging 1947 Trial on an AJS 16MC at his first attempt – then repeated the achievement the following year and made it three in a row in 1949. In the 1950s this record was beaten by another AJS Works Team rider Gordon Jackson, who won the Scottish four times, in the 1961 event he won the trial losing only one mark. The SSDT, up until 1976, started on the Monday morning from the Gorgie Cattle Market (Now called 'The Corn Exchange') and finished on the Saturday at the Observatory at Blackford Hill, Edinburgh. The event being based at Fort William during the week.


== Present day ==
The "Scottish" has been completely based at Fort William since the 1977 event and is so popular that there are usually over 500 entries for the 275 places available. Of the 275 places, 30 are reserved for factory teams and a further 50 for allocation by the club. The remaining places are allocated through a ballot system. Following a period of private refuelling services and the increase in health and safety regulations, the British Army were invited and made use of the SSDT as a live refuelling exercise called 'Operation Highland Trot'. The future of the SSDT was put into temporary jeopardy in 2003 when the Army reluctantly announced in late 2002 that they were no longer able to provide a refuelling service. However, the SSDT was able to continue through 2003 with another branch of the Army taking over the refuelling services. Since the 1960s it has been customary for a Scotsman to be allocated the riding number 1. The trial celebrated its 'Official Centenary' in 2011, 100 years since the 1911 event, which was the first organised by the Edinburgh & District Motor Club Ltd. The majority of the event takes place on private ground, connected by public highway. Following the event by motorcycle on private land is strictly prohibited, as permission for the competitors and officials is only granted under this caveat. Spectators at observed sections are welcome, but those spectating are asked to park sensibly at or near sections. Observing these requirements will thus ensure the future of this prestigious event. The trial organisers work very closely with landowners and government agencies to ensure that the environment is protected during not only the event itself, but the preparations prior to it on an annual basis.


== SSDT winners ==
(No outright winners were identifiable prior to 1932)


== See also ==
Scott Trial
FIM Trial World Championship


== References ==


== External links ==
The official SSDT web site
2006 winner Graham Jarvis
2007 winner James Dabill[link removed]
2014 winner Dougie Lampkin
Video of 2002 SSDT competition

Raymond Moore and Roscoe Tanner were the defending champions but lost in the second round to David Graham and John Sadri.
Gene Mayer and Sandy Mayer won in the final 6–4, 7–6 against Cliff Drysdale and Bruce Manson.


== Seeds ==


== Draw ==
Key


=== Final ===


=== Top half ===


=== Bottom half ===


== References ==


== External links ==
1979 Congoleum Classic Doubles draw

Michele Bravi (Italian pronunciation: [miˈkɛːle ˈbraːvi]; born 19 December 1994) is an Italian singer, songwriter, and actor. He rose to fame after winning the seventh season of the Italian X Factor. His coronation song, "La vita e la felicità", was penned by Tiziano Ferro and reached the top spot of the Italian Singles Chart. Bravi's debut album, A passi piccoli, was released in June 2014.
In 2015, after parting ways with Sony Music, he released the EP I Hate Music, which entered the Italian Albums chart at number 3. In 2017, Bravi participated in the Sanremo Music Festival,  with the song "Il diario degli errori", anticipation of his debut number one album Anime di carta. After acting on Italian TV series La compagnia del Cigno, he published his second number one album La geografia del buio in 2021 with the single "Mantieni il bacio".
Since his career debut Bravi has sold over 300.000 copies in Italy reaching the Top ten Charts six times, including two number one. He received two MTV Italian Music Awards, collaborated with numerous Italian artists, including Giorgia, Gué Pequeno, Federica Abbate, Elodie and Tiziano Ferro, and the British singers James Blunt and Sophie and the Giants.


== Career ==
Michele Bravi was born on 19 December 1994 in Città di Castello, a city in the province of Perugia, in Central Italy, to Giovanna Machi and Stefano Bravi. He has a sister, Marta, who is three years older than him.
He started singing as a child, when he joined the city choir, but he later decided to quit. During his studies at the liceo classico, Bravi's interest in music persisted, even if it was just a hobby. He later started to take music lessons, and he learnt to play piano.
In 2013, Bravi auditioned for the seventh edition of the Italian talent show X Factor, performing Cat Steven's "Father and Son". After being chosen by Morgan as a contestant for his category, "Boys Under 25", Bravi reached the final of the competition and, on 12 December 2013, won the competition, beating runner-up band Ape Escape. During the competition, Bravi performed the song "La vita e la felicità", co-written by Tiziano Ferro, which was later released as his debut single. During its second week, the single reached the top spot of the Italian Singles Chart.
The song was also included in the extended play with the same title, released by Sony Music on 13 December 2013.
In February 2014, Bravi took part in the soundtrack of the film Sotto una buona stella, directed by Carlo Verdone, recording the song with the same title. "Sotto una buona stella" was also released as Bravi's second single. Bravi's first studio album, A passi piccoli, was released on 10 June 2014. The album, which includes tracks written by Giorgia, Tiziano Ferro, Emilio Munda, Federico Zampaglione and James Blunt, also spawned the singles "Un giorno in più" and "In bilico".

Having left Sony for Universal Music, Bravi in 2015 started a YouTube channel to attain a closer contact with his fans. During the year he started recording new songs and in October his EP I Hate Music was published. It was preceded by the single "The Days". All songs were co-written by Bravi and the lyrics are in English. The EP contains the Troye Sivan cover "The Fault in Our Stars", as well. In early 2016, the singer started his first concert tour.
In February 2017, Bravi competed in the "Big Artists" section of the 67th Sanremo Music Festival, performing the song "Il diario degli errori". The song was the lead single from Bravi's second studio album, Anime di carta, released on 24 February 2017. The album peaked the Italian Albums Chart and the song reached the number four of Italian Singles Chart receiving the double platinum certification.  His second lead single from the album "Solo per un po'" won the Best Performance Award at the MTV Italian Music Awards.
From October 2017 to May 2017 he was cast with Annalisa and Giovanni Caccamo as tutors of seventeen season of Amici di Maria De Filippi. In 2018 the singer collaborated with Elodie and rapper Gué Pequeno on the Top ten hit "Nero Bali", which sold over 100,000 copies. In January 2019 he starred on Italian TV series "La compagnia del Cigno". 
On February 18, 2020, he announced the future release of hid third studio album. In May 2020 he was cast for the spin-off Amici Speciali with his lead sing from the album le "La vita breve dei coriandoli". In January 2021, Bravi published the second single "Mantieni il bacio" and the album La geografia del buio. The album became his second number one on Italian Albums Chart, while the single was certified gold by Fimi. On June 22, 2021, the singer released the collaboration "Falene" with British band Sophie and the Giants.
On 30 November 2025, he was announced among the participants of the Sanremo Music Festival 2026. He competed with the song "Prima o poi".


== Personal life ==
In January 2017, interviewed by Vanity Fair, Bravi revealed he had a relationship with a man. The couple dated for two years before splitting. Bravi refused to label his sexuality in any way: "I don't need to come out, because there's no teen that would be surprised knowing I fell in love with a boy, and I think nobody of my same age would retreat feeling emotions for someone of the same sex". He also stated: "I met someone who gave me emotions, it's irrelevant he was a man. In the future, the same thing could happen with a girl".
In November 2018, Bravi allegedly caused a fatal car accident that left a 58-year-old motorcyclist dead.


== Discography ==


=== Albums ===


=== EPs ===


=== Singles ===


=== Album appearances ===


== Filmography ==


=== Film ===


=== Television ===


== Awards and nominations ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Michele Bravi – X Factor Italy at the Wayback Machine (archived 29 April 2014)

Gower is a city in Buchanan and Clinton counties Missouri, United States, that is part of the Kansas City metropolitan area. The population was 1,533 at the 2020 census.
The Buchanan County portion of Gower is part of the St. Joseph, MO–KS Metropolitan Statistical Area, while the Clinton County portion is part of the Kansas City, MO–KS Metropolitan Statistical Area.


== History ==
The city was named after A. G. Gower, a railroad official.


== Geography ==
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 1.00 square mile (2.59 km2), all land.


== Demographics ==


=== 2020 census ===
As of the 2020 census, Gower had a population of 1,533. The median age was 39.6 years. 25.6% of residents were under the age of 18 and 20.8% of residents were 65 years of age or older. For every 100 females there were 88.3 males, and for every 100 females age 18 and over there were 83.3 males age 18 and over.
0.0% of residents lived in urban areas, while 100.0% lived in rural areas.
There were 550 households in Gower, of which 39.1% had children under the age of 18 living in them. Of all households, 56.0% were married-couple households, 12.7% were households with a male householder and no spouse or partner present, and 26.0% were households with a female householder and no spouse or partner present. About 24.4% of all households were made up of individuals and 14.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.
There were 589 housing units, of which 6.6% were vacant. The homeowner vacancy rate was 2.1% and the rental vacancy rate was 5.2%.


=== 2010 census ===
As of the census of 2010, there were 1,526 people, 561 households, and 408 families living in the city. The population density was 1,526.0 inhabitants per square mile (589.2/km2). There were 598 housing units at an average density of 598.0 per square mile (230.9/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 98.4% White, 0.4% African American, 0.1% Native American, 0.2% Asian, and 1.0% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.4% of the population.
There were 561 households, of which 38.5% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 58.3% were married couples living together, 11.6% had a female householder with no husband present, 2.9% had a male householder with no wife present, and 27.3% were non-families. 24.1% of all households were made up of individuals, and 11.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.60 and the average family size was 3.08.
The median age in the city was 37.9 years. 26.5% of residents were under the age of 18; 7.7% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 24.6% were from 25 to 44; 24.7% were from 45 to 64; and 16.3% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 48.1% male and 51.9% female.


=== 2000 census ===
As of the census of 2000, there were 1,399 people, 536 households, and 393 families living in the city. The population density was 1,399.9 inhabitants per square mile (540.5/km2). There were 549 housing units at an average density of 549.3 per square mile (212.1/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 99.36% White, 0.14% African American, 0.14% Native American, and 0.36% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.79% of the population.
There were 536 households, out of which 38.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 61.2% were married couples living together, 9.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 26.5% were non-families. 22.8% of all households were made up of individuals, and 14.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.61 and the average family size was 3.09.
In the city the population was spread out, with 28.2% under the age of 18, 8.4% from 18 to 24, 29.8% from 25 to 44, 20.1% from 45 to 64, and 13.6% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 36 years. For every 100 females, there were 88.5 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 85.8 males.
The median income for a household in the city was $48,125, and the median income for a family was $55,694. Males had a median income of $35,313 versus $24,563 for females. The per capita income for the city was $19,408. About 2.4% of families and 3.8% of the population were below the poverty line, including 4.8% of those under age 18 and 3.5% of those age 65 or over.


== Education ==
The school district is East Buchanan County C-1 School District. The East Buchanan C-1 School District administration is headquartered in Gower. The high school, middle school, and elementary school are located in Gower; however, the middle school was formerly located in Easton.


== See also ==

List of cities in Missouri


== References ==


== External links ==

Historic maps of Gower in the Sanborn Maps of Missouri Collection at the University of Missouri

The Pollard-Nelson House is a historic home in Logansport, Indiana. It was built in 1845 and enlarged in 1889 and 1910.  It is a two-story, seven-bay, Greek Revival style brick dwelling with flanking two-story wings and rear additions.  It has a gable roof and features a two-story, projecting front portico supported by Doric order columns.
It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1975.


== References ==

The 1993 Kansas City Chiefs season was the franchise's 24th season in the National Football League  and the 34th overall. They improved on their 10–6 record from 1992 and won the AFC West and with an 11–5 record. Kansas City advanced all the way to the AFC Championship before losing to the Buffalo Bills 30–13, which started the Chiefs' 8-game playoff losing streak. It would be 22 years before the Chiefs would win another playoff game, and 25 years until they won another playoff game at Arrowhead.
The season marked the first for new quarterback Joe Montana, who was acquired through a trade with the San Francisco 49ers and running back Marcus Allen from the Los Angeles Raiders, both winners of five Super Bowl championships combined. This would be the last time until 2018 that the Chiefs would appear in the AFC Championship game or win a playoff game at Arrowhead. 


== Offseason ==


=== Montana and Marcus ===
In the months preceding the 1993 season, Kansas City acquired two former Super Bowl MVPs: Joe Montana from the San Francisco 49ers, and Marcus Allen from the Los Angeles Raiders.  
The previous season, the Chiefs' starting quarterback was Dave Krieg and their running back was Christian Okoye.  Okoye suffered a knee injury prior to training camp in 1993, but keeping Krieg would prove to be a wise decision in the event of injury to the new starter Montana.
Allen was named NFL Comeback Player of the Year in 1993 after rushing for twelve touchdowns and 764 yards.


=== Draft ===

With their first pick in the 1993 NFL draft, coming in the third round, the Chiefs' selected future all-pro and Hall of fame guard Will Shields out of the University of Nebraska. Shields went on to start 223 of the 224 career games he played for the team and was selected to 12 consecutive Pro Bowls.


=== Undrafted free agents ===


== Personnel ==


=== Staff ===


=== Roster ===


== Preseason ==


== Regular season ==


=== Schedule ===


=== Game summaries ===


==== Week 1: at Tampa Bay Buccaneers ====


==== Week 2: at Houston Oilers ====


==== Week 3: vs. Denver Broncos ====


==== Week 5: vs. Los Angeles Raiders ====


==== Week 6: vs. Cincinnati Bengals ====


==== Week 7: at San Diego Chargers ====


==== Week 9: at Miami Dolphins ====


==== Week 10: vs. Green Bay Packers ====


==== Week 11: at Los Angeles Raiders ====


==== Week 12: vs. Chicago Bears ====


==== Week 13: vs. Buffalo Bills ====


==== Week 14: at Seattle Seahawks ====


==== Week 15: at Denver Broncos ====


==== Week 16: vs. San Diego Chargers ====


==== Week 17: at Minnesota Vikings ====


==== Week 18: vs. Seattle Seahawks ====


=== Standings ===


== Postseason ==


=== Schedule ===


=== Game summaries ===


==== AFC Wild Card Playoffs: vs. (6) Pittsburgh Steelers ====

Chiefs kicker Nick Lowery made the winning 32-yard field goal after 11:03 of overtime. The Steelers scored first on tight end Adrian Cooper's 10-yard touchdown reception from quarterback Neil O'Donnell. Kansas City then tied the game after backup quarterback Dave Krieg, who temporarily replaced injured starter Joe Montana, threw a 23-yard touchdown to wide receiver J.J. Birden. However, Pittsburgh scored 10 unanswered points in the second quarter: kicker Gary Anderson's 30-yard field goal and O'Donnell's 26-yard touchdown completion to wide receiver Ernie Mills. After Lowery made a 23-yard field goal in the third quarter, the Chiefs eventually tied the game in the fourth period with running back Marcus Allen's 2-yard touchdown. However, the Steelers marched 74-yards to take the lead on O'Donnell's third touchdown pass of the game, a 22-yard score to tight end Eric Green. In the final minutes of regulation, Keith Cash blocked a Pittsburgh punt and Fred Jones returned it to the Steelers 9-yard line. On fourth down, wide receiver Tim Barnett scored on a 7-yard touchdown reception from Montana to tie the game. Then after forcing Pittsburgh to punt, Kansas City drove 47 yards to set up Lowery's 43-yard field-goal attempt in the closing seconds, but the kick was wide right and thus the game went into overtime.  Montana finished the game with 276 passing yards and a touchdown, with no interceptions. With the win, the Chiefs were able to advance to the Divisional Round to face the Oilers. This would be both the Chiefs last home playoff win until 2018 & their last playoff win against the Steelers until 2021.


==== AFC Divisional Playoffs: at (2) Houston Oilers ====

Chiefs quarterback Joe Montana threw three touchdown passes in the second half to give his team a 28–20 win. The Oilers jumped to a 10–0 lead in the first quarter with kicker Al Del Greco's 49-yard field goal and running back Gary Brown's 2-yard touchdown. Then after a scoreless second period, Montana threw a 7-yard touchdown pass to tight end Keith Cash in the third quarter. In the fourth period, Del Greco kicked a 43-yard field goal to give Houston a 13–7 lead. But aided by a 38-yard pass interference penalty, the Chiefs advanced 71 yards to score on wide receiver J.J. Birden's 11-yard touchdown reception from Montana. On the Oilers' next possession, Kansas City defensive lineman Dan Saleaumua recovered a fumble by Houston quarterback Warren Moon, setting up Montana's 18-yard touchdown pass to wide receiver Willie Davis. The Oilers then drove 80 yards to score on wide receiver Ernest Givins' 7-yard touchdown catch, but the Chiefs responded with running back Marcus Allen's game-clinching 21-yard touchdown run that capped off a 79-yard drive. The Oilers had 1:51 left to score but failed on a 4th down attempt on their own 20 yard line. With the win, Kansas City advanced to the AFC Championship to face the Bills. However, this would be both the Chiefs last playoff win until 2015 & their last win in the Divisional Round until 2018.


==== AFC Championship: at (1) Buffalo Bills ====

Running back Thurman Thomas led the Bills to the 30–13 victory by recording 186 rushing yards, 3 receptions for 22 yards, and three touchdowns. Buffalo scored first on Thomas' 12-yard touchdown run before Chiefs kicker Nick Lowery kicked two field goals. In the second quarter, Thomas scored on a 3-yard touchdown and Bills kicker Steve Christie made two field goals to extend the lead 20–6. With 21 seconds left in the first half, the Chiefs reached the Buffalo 5-yard line, but quarterback Joe Montana's pass was intercepted by Bills defensive back Henry Jones. Montana later suffered a concussion during the third play of the third quarter and left the game. Kansas City backup quarterback Dave Krieg then led his team on a 90-yard drive to score on running back Marcus Allen's 1-yard touchdown. However, Buffalo scored 10 unanswered points in the final period, an 18-yard field goal by Christie and a 3-yard touchdown by Thomas, to preserve the victory. This would be the Chiefs last appearance in the AFC Championship until 2018.  As of 2025, this remains the Chiefs most recent playoff loss to Buffalo. They also remain the last team to lose to Buffalo in the AFC Championship


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
1993 Kansas City Chiefs on Database Football

George Allen & Unwin is a British publishing company formed in 1914 after Sir Stanley Unwin purchased a controlling interest in George Allen & Co.  It established an Australian subsidiary in 1976.  In 1990 Allen & Unwin was sold to HarperCollins, and the Australian branch was the subject of a management buy-out.


== George Allen & Unwin in the UK ==
George Allen & Sons was established in 1871 by George Allen, with the backing of John Ruskin, becoming George Allen & Co. Ltd. in 1911 when it merged with Swan Sonnenschein and then George Allen & Unwin on 4 August 1914 as a result of Stanley Unwin's  purchase of a controlling interest. Frank Arthur Mumby and Frances Helena Swan Stallybrass, Unwin's son Rayner S. Unwin and his nephew Philip helped him to run the company, which published works by Bertrand Russell, Arthur Waley, Roald Dahl, Lancelot Hogben and Thor Heyerdahl. It became well known as J. R. R. Tolkien's publisher some time after publishing the popular children's fantasy novel The Hobbit in 1937, and its high fantasy sequel The Lord of the Rings novel in 1954–1955. Book series published by the firm in this period included the Muirhead Library of Philosophy and Unwin Books, a paperback imprint.
Rayner Unwin retired at the end of 1985, and the firm was amalgamated in 1986 with Bell & Hyman to form Unwin Hyman Ltd., with Robin Hyman as chief executive. From this time "Allen & Unwin" continued only as the name of the Australian subsidiary of Unwin Hyman. Rayner Unwin returned for a while as part-time chairman of Unwin Hyman, retiring again at the end of 1988. It was over the objections of Rayner Unwin, the largest shareholder, that in 1990 Hyman sold the firm to HarperCollins. HarperCollins has since sold Unwin Hyman's academic book list to Routledge.


== Unwin Books ==
When Allen & Unwin began publishing paperbacks in the 1960s they did so in an imprint Unwin Books - this mass market sell through subsidiary became a publisher in the nascent alternative culture of the 1960s through the publication of books on philosophy and politics including Marx, Trotsky, Freud, Alan Wood, Zen Buddhism and Yoga, and literature of the far east notably the Chinese translations of Arthur Waley, Russian and Indian writers and the work of Tolkien.  Each book in the series was numbered and through the 60s each book contained a full list of the other titles numbering in excess of 80.
A separate numbered list Unwin University Book was launched in 1962 comprising academic titles beginning with Barbara Wootton's The Social Foundations of Wage Policy.
In the 1970s a further list was formed, Unicorn Books, around the posthumous publications of Tolkien, supported by a series of other fantasy works by other authors including Lord Dunsany. 


== Allen & Unwin in Australia ==
Allen & Unwin Australia Pty Ltd became independent in July 1990 by means of a management buy-out after the UK firm was bought by HarperCollins. Now known simply as "Allen & Unwin", the company went on to become the most successful "independent" publisher in Australia. It currently publishes up to 250 new titles a year. Among the many authors published by Allen & Unwin are Alex Miller, Christos Tsiolkas, Garth Nix, Jodi Picoult, Kate Morton, Michael Connelly, Thomas Keneally, Peter Corris, Paul Keating, Stephanie Dowrick and Christopher Hitchens. Allen & Unwin is also co-sponsor and publisher of the annual Australian/Vogel Literary Award.
In 2017, Allen & Unwin refused to publish the book Silent Invasion due to legal concerns that it "would be targeted by Beijing and its proxies in Australia."
Allen & Unwin's Australian logo was designed by in-house designer Nada Backovic.


== References and sources ==


=== References ===


=== Sources ===
"Records of George Allen & Unwin Ltd". University of Reading.


== Further reading ==
Frank Arthur Mumby and Frances Helena Swan Stallybrass, From Swan Sonnenschein to George Allen & Unwin Ltd. London: Allen & Unwin, 1955. With an introduction by Dr. John Murray.
Philip Unwin, The Publishing Unwins (London: William Heinemann Ltd., 1972)
Rayner Unwin, George Allen and Unwin: A Remembrancer (Ludlow: Merlin Unwin, 1999)
Stanley Unwin, The Truth About a Publisher (London: George Allen & Unwin, 1960)


== External links ==

Official website 
Records of George Allen & Unwin Ltd at Archives Hub

The Dates Ground (Hebrew: מגרש התמרים), also known as Hapoel Ground (Hebrew: מגרש הפועל) was a football ground in the Montefiore neighborhood of Tel Aviv, Israel. The ground was in use between 1941 and 1949, and was abandoned when the club moved to play in an already built stadium in Jaffa, on which the current Bloomfield Stadium stands.


== See also ==
Sports in Israel


== References ==
Hapoel's Tin Plates Ground Danny Recht, Tel Aviv 100 (in Hebrew)

The Pihlajavesi railway station (Finnish: Pihlajaveden rautatieasema, Swedish: Pihlajavesi järnvägsstation) is located in the town of Keuruu, Finland (formerly the municipality of Pihlajavesi), in the village of Pihlajavesi. It is located along the Haapamäki–Seinäjoki railway, and its neighboring stations are Haapamäki in the south and Myllymäki in the north.


== History ==
During the building of the Tampere–Vaasa railway, the municipal authorities of Pihlajavesi made an appeal to the Railway Administration for the opening of a station in its territory. It cited the long distance between the stations of Keuruu – contemporarily known as Haapamäki – and Ähtäri, and estate owner Isak Valkeajärvi pledged to donate the land required free of charge. On 28 December 1880, the decision to build a road from the Pihlajavesi church to the future station was made. The project of building a bridge over river Koipijoki proved controversial among the estate owners of the municipality. Pihlajavesi became one of the original stations of the railway, being opened on 29 September 1883 as a pysäkki (a station of lower significance, translating to "stop").


=== List of stationmasters ===
The following people served as the stationmasters at Pihlajavesi in 1887–1970:

Johan Alfred Holm (1887–1888)
Karl Alfred Hjelt (1893–1895)
Johan Ulrik Nörlund (1895–1909)
Oskar Alarik Gröndahl (1909–1926)
Väinö Gustaf Nikolainen (1928–1929)
Edvard Alarik Lybeck (1929–1930)
Väinö Verneri Louhivaara (1930–1937)
Hugo Henrik Puusaari (1937–1952)
Bruuno Vilhelm Helminen (1952–1966)
Matti Aatami Ravantti (1967–1970)


== Architecture ==
The station building in Pihlajavesi was constructed according to the stock blueprints for the smaller pysäkki stations on the Tampere–Vaasa railway in 1881–1883. After its promotion to a class V station in 1888, it was expanded according to plans from Bruno Granholm in 1902. Some of the finer details of the design have been simplified and the doors changed since then, though the design is still reflective of its state in 1902. The station building suffered a fire in the 1980s, which prompted the construction and use of a temporary "shipping container" building until the original station was repaired.


== Services ==
VR Group operates two daily regional train services in each direction on the route Jyväskylä–Seinäjoki, all of which call in Pihlajavesi. These services are operated with Dm12 railbuses. The station does not have ticketings services nor a VR ticket vending machine, though it does have 55 centimetres (22 in) high platforms. The station building is not open for use by passengers.


== See also ==
Haapamäki railway station


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Pihlajavesi railway station at Wikimedia Commons
Train departures and arrivals at Pihlajavesi on Finrail

Acantholespesia is a genus of flies in the family Tachinidae.


== Species ==
Acantholespesia comstocki (Williston, 1889)
Acantholespesia signata (Aldrich & Webber, 1924)
Acantholespesia texana (Aldrich & Webber, 1924)


== References ==

Yusuff is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Sodiq Yusuff, Nigerian-American mixed martial artist
Adeoye Yusuff, English footballer
Rasheed Yusuff
M. A. Yusuff Ali
Salman Yusuff Khan
Yusuff Syed


== See also ==
Yussuff
Yussuf
Yusuf

Stanford v. Texas, 379 U.S. 476 (1965), is a major decision of the Supreme Court of the United States. It stated in clear terms that, pursuant to the Fourteenth Amendment, the Fourth Amendment rules regarding search and seizure applied to state governments. While this principle had been outlined in other cases, such as Mapp v. Ohio, this case added another level of constitutional consideration for the issuance of search warrants when articles of expression, protected by the First Amendment, are among the items to be taken. In effect, when a state issues a warrant that includes the order to seize books, it must accord the "most scrupulous exactitude" to the language of the Fourth Amendment.


== Background ==
The petitioner, John William Stanford, Jr., operated a mail-order book business, "All Points of View", out of his private residence in San Antonio, Texas. On December 27, 1963, Texas law enforcement officers—several Bexar County deputies and two assistant attorneys general—appeared at Stanford's home with a warrant to search the premises. This warrant had been issued by a local magistrate for the purpose of seizing any books, lists, receipts, pictures, or other such effects related to the Communist Party of Texas, an organization that had been declared unlawful by a piece of Texas legislation known as the "Suppression Act", also known as the Texas Communist Control Law. Among other provisions, the Suppression Act made it illegal to possess writings, recordings or photographs relating to the Communist Party of Texas, each instance of such possession potentially bringing a prison sentence of 20 years.
Stanford was not home at the time officers arrived, but his wife allowed police into the home after being read the warrant. Officers evidently tried to locate Stanford without success before beginning their search. This search lasted around five hours. When the search was completed, officers had, in total, seized approximately 2,000 of Stanford's books, pamphlets, and papers, which were then packed into 14 cartons and sent to an investigator's office in the county courthouse. In the entire collection of seized material, investigators did not find any articles related to the Communist Party of Texas. Many of the seized books had been, in fact, intended for sale in Stanford's home business and included "such diverse writers as Karl Marx, Jean-Paul Sartre, Theodore Draper, Fidel Castro, Earl Browder, Pope John XXIII, and Mr. Justice Hugo Black."
Also among the seized items was an array of Stanford's private documents, insurance policies, personal correspondence, and even his marriage certificate. Due to this fact, and the fact that the investigation had yielded no evidence of criminal activity, Stanford filed a motion with the magistrate who had issued the warrant, requesting that the warrant be annulled and his property be returned. After a hearing, Stanford's motion was denied without further comment from the court. By statute, the decision of the local court was final on this matter, leaving only the supreme court as an avenue of appeal. The court granted certiorari and heard arguments on November 12, 1964.
John Stanford helped organize the San Antonio Committee to Free Angela Davis in the early 1970s and still lived in San Antonio until his death in 2013. He was also active for many years in the peace movement and with black communist John Inman of San Antonio. Stanford established relationships with SNCC, the Black Panthers, and other groups active in the San Antonio area.


== Opinion of the Court ==
On January 18, 1965, Justice Potter Stewart delivered the unanimous opinion of the Court. Demonstrating the strength of the agreement among the justices, the court stated that it would not even consider the majority of Stanford's arguments against the warrant, stating it needed just one of his objections to determine that the search had been unconstitutional. Namely, the court found the warrant issued was a general warrant, something that the Fourth Amendment had been created specifically to prevent. Such a warrant required only the reasonable belief of wrongdoing, and granted law enforcement officials considerable leeway in what they were allowed to seize as evidence of a crime. The court quoted Revolutionary War-era figure James Otis; regarding writs of assistance, Otis remarks, "[they are] the worst instrument of arbitrary power ... that ever was found in an English law book... [placing] the liberty of every man in the hands of every petty officer."
Much of the court's opinion pertains to the history of warrants, and the constitutional interest in preventing warrants that are too broad in scope.  Justice Stewart felt it would be a “needless exercise in pedantry to review again the detailed history of the use of general warrants as instruments of oppression from the time of the Tudors, through the Star Chamber, the Long Parliament, the Restoration, and beyond.”  Nevertheless, the Court's discussion of this history comprises more than half of the unquoted text of the opinion.
Justice Steward focuses closely on the English Court of King’s Bench case Entick v Carrington (1765), which rejected a search warrant against a bookseller for seditious libel.  Calling Lord Camden’s opinion the “wellspring” of the Fourth Amendment, Justice Steward draws the King’s overreach there in close parallel with Texas’s search of John Stanford here.
Near the end of the Court's opinion, it summarizes its purpose in discussing history at such length:

In short, what this history indispensably teaches is that the constitutional requirement that warrants must particularly describe the 'things to be seized' is to be accorded the most scrupulous exactitude when the 'things' are books, and the basis for their seizure is the ideas which they contain.
The magistrate's order was vacated, and the case was remanded to lower court for its final disposition, consistent with the ruling above.


== See also ==
List of United States Supreme Court cases, volume 379


== References ==


== External links ==
Text of Stanford v. Texas, 379 U.S. 476 (1965) is available from: CourtListener  Findlaw  Google Scholar  Internet Archive (docket files)  Justia  Library of Congress  Oyez (oral argument audio)

Jeanne Cheirel (born Jeanne Augustine Baltazar; 18 March 1869 – 2 November 1934) was a French film and stage actress. She was in the original cast of two of Georges Feydeau's plays Tied by the Leg (1894) and The Turkey (1896). She made her screen debut in a 1909 short film and continued acting in cinema until her death in 1934. She was the aunt of the actress Micheline Cheirel.


== Selected filmography ==
Germinal (1913)
Flipotte (1920)
Crainquebille (1922)
My Aunt from Honfleur (1931)
Moonlight (1932)
Let's Touch Wood (1933)
The Weaker Sex (1933)
The Concierge's Daughters (1934)
The Secret of Polichinelle (1934)
My Heart Is Calling You (1934)
Miquette (1934)


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Goble, Alan. The Complete Index to Literary Sources in Film. Walter de Gruyter, 1999.
Greco, Joseph. The File on Robert Siodmak in Hollywood, 1941-1951. Universal-Publishers, 1999.


== External links ==
Jeanne Cheirel at IMDb

Şevqiy Bektöre (Crimean Tatar Cyrillic: Шевкъий Бектёре, Dobrujan Tatar: Şewkiy Bektóre, Turkish: Şevki Bektöre, sometimes anglicized as Shewkiy Bektore or Shevki Bektore; 1888 –  December 18, 1961) was a Dobrujan-born Crimean Tatar poet, publisher, educator, academic, and activist for ethnic Crimean Tatar causes.
He created the first Arabic script alphabet modified specifically for Crimean Tatars and authored Crimean Tatar and Turkmen language textbooks. He served in Crimea, Caucasus, and Central Asia, and spent much of his adult life in Joseph Stalin’s gulags.


== Biography ==
Şevqiy Bektöre was born in 1888 in Kavaklar, today officially known as Chirnogeni, a village situated in the Crimean Tatar countryside west of Mangalia, in Dobruja. At the time, the region was part of the Kingdom of Romania; from 1420 to 1878, it was part of the Ottoman Empire. His parents were prosperous farmers hailing from Crimea. As a result of the Russo-Turkish War (1768–74) followed by the loss of Crimea to the Russians in 1783, in the early 19th century consecutive waves of threatened Crimean Tatars left their properties and fled to the Ottoman Empire. Some of them settled in Dobruja, but by the time Bektöre was born, the region had been annexed by the Kingdom of Romania, following the conclusion of the Russo-Turkish War of 1877–1878. When Bektöre was 6 years old, his father, who was also a schoolteacher and the governor of township, convinced many of his fellow villagers to move further inland to Anatolia, Turkey. They settled in Central Anatolia, 50 miles (80 km) west of Ankara, near Polatlı on the road to Eskişehir, naming their village Karakaya.
Bektöre completed his elementary school in Karakaya and his secondary education in the neighboring town of Haymana. Then, at the age of 17, he went to Istanbul for his higher education entering the Divinity Faculty of the Istanbul University where he met students of Crimean descent and acted in the Crimean Students Association in Istanbul.
In 1909 he took his first trip to Crimea, which was part of Russia, where he looked for his lost relatives and made folklore and ethnographic studies.
In 1912, he participated in the First Balkan War.
At the beginning of World War I in 1914, when the Ottoman Empire was again at war with Russia, Bektöre was teaching in Crimea. He escaped the war, fleeing to Turkey via Azerbaijan and Iran.
In early 1918, Bektöre was serving in Istanbul as General Secretary of the Society of Active Youth consisting of Turks of Crimean descent.  In March, when the warfare ended, he sailed to Sevastopol and Feodosia with the delegation of the Red Crescent charged with the prisoner exchange.  While there, he learned news unknown outside of Crimea realizing what the Bolshevik Revolution produced.  He also learned that in December 1917 Tatars refused to recognize the legitimacy of the Bolsheviks, and, on 23 February 1918, a firing squad of the Black Sea Fleet executed their elected President, Noman Çelebicihan. Their Minister of Defense and Foreign Affairs, Cafer Seydamet Qırımer, escaped with his wife through Caucasus.
Later that year, Bektöre, Cafer Seydamet Qırımer, and a small group of Crimean Tatar patriots living in Istanbul traveled to Crimea on a gunboat to join the struggle for independence. Bektöre became a member of the Crimean National Board of Education. By the end of the year he managed to recruit from Turkey more than fifty teachers. This time, when he arrived in Crimea, he also had at his side Hamide, his young and supporting wife.
The Bektöre family settled in the village of Quru Özen (now Soniachnehirske), near Alushta, 50 kilometres (31 mi) northeast of Yalta. The village had no school and Bektöre set out to open one. He extensively wrote poems which had nationalistic tones:

My Tatars and my birthplace,
My childhood's cherished times,
Unceasingly I yearn for,
Excruciating rhymes.

In Quru Özen, he founded and distributed Şar-şur, a journal that was written by hand, and he got children to learn and recite his poems, including Tatarlığım (lit. 'My Tatarland' or 'My Tatarness'), Aqqım içün (lit. 'For My Freedom', ) and Ayt, Çatırtav (lit. 'Tell Me, Virgin Mountain').
In 1920, he published in Aqmescit (Simferopol) his first poetry collection, Ergenekon. To publish the book he used a printing press in an abandoned building.  He found an old type setter and together they were able to retrofit the equipment.  He personally distributed the books in towns and villages.  Then he did the same thing with his collections that followed.  In the end, his poems and writings were widely read and known throughout Crimea.
In November 1920, the Bolsheviks took over Crimea and on 18 October 1921, they authorized the establishment of the Crimean Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, which was annexed to the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic.
During the 1920-1921 famine, he was a teacher at the Crimean Tatar Pedagogical Institute in Totayköy (now Fersmanove), Crimea.
In 1924, due to the increased determination of the Soviet authorities to liquidate national ambitions, he left Crimea for Dagestan where he was to be a teacher of languages in the Pedagogical Institute in the city of Temir-Khan-Shura (now called Buynaksk).
In 1926, he participated as a delegate from Dagestan in the All-Union Turcological Congress in Baku, Azerbaijan, where the replacement of Arabic script in Turkic-Islamic lands by Latin alphabet was adopted. In addition, the adoption of a common grammar by the Turkic Soviet Republics was discussed.
For a short period he was a teacher in the town of Batalpasha in Karachay-Cherkessia.  In 1927 he moved to Ashgabat, the capital of Turkmenistan, where he taught at the Turkmen Teachers School.
On 25 March 1932 he was arrested by the State Political Directorate, or GPU, of the NKVD (the precursor of KGB) on charge of "belonging to the secret Turkmen Nationalist Organization."  He was sentenced to 10 years and imprisoned in the agricultural labor camps in Uzbekistan, first in Zarafshan and later in Zengi-Ata near Tashkent. Hoping to join them after his release in 1943, he convinced his wife Hamide, then living in Tashkent, to take their three children and move to her relatives in Istanbul.  But he was released only after the war in 1948. He settled in Yangiyul, Uzbekistan and he started to write letters to the authorities requesting a passport. On 17 December 1948, he was rearrested on charge of "being a dangerous person" and exiled for life to the town of Bolshaya Murta on the Yenisey river north of Krasnoyarsk, Siberia. In Bolshaya Murta, he worked as watchman in a brick cooperative. Later, he herded horses and cows and became a basket weaver.
Some years after Stalin's death in 1953, he was released by Nikita Khrushchev and in October 1956 he was able to join his family in Turkey, after a confinement and exile for 24 years.
In 1960, he was elected as head of the Crimean Tatar National Center in Turkey.
Bektöre died on 18 December 1961 in Istanbul.  He was buried at Adrianopole Gate, outside of the western walls of old Constantinople. His memoirs were recorded by Saadet Bektöre and published by Eroğlu Matbaası in 1965, under the title Red Flows the Volga (Crimean Tatar: Volga kızıl akarken).


== Writings ==


== Citations ==


=== Sources ===
Anaurt. "Шевкъий Бекторе". anaurt (in Crimean Tatar (Cyrillic script)). anaurt.com. Retrieved 13 August 2014.
Allworth, Edward, ed. (1998). The Tatars of Crimea: Return to the Homeland: Studies and Documents. Durham, NC: Duke University Press. pp. 71, 77–79, 343. ISBN 978-0-8223-1985-6.
Bektöre, Saadet (1965). Volga kızıl akarken (in Turkish). Ankara: Eroğlu Matbaası.
Bektöre, Atilla (2007). A Nomad's Journey: A Memoir. Lincoln, NE: iUniverse. ISBN 978-0-5953-8524-9.
Bektöre, Atilla (16 March 2005). "Shevki Bektöre (1888-1961)". ICC. International Committee for Crimea. Retrieved 13 August 2014.
Bektóre, Şewkiy (February 2012). "Tatarlîgîm". Nazar Look (in Crimean Tatar) (14): 17. Retrieved 13 August 2014.
Bektóre, Şewkiy (April 2011). "Ayt, Şatîrtaw". Nazar Look (in Crimean Tatar) (4): 19. Retrieved 13 August 2014.
Bowman, Inci. "Book Notice". ICC. International Committee for Crimea. Retrieved 13 August 2014.
Tabaq, Dilyara; Nariman, Nara (1 October 2009). "Atilla Bektore's "A Nomad's Journey" is published in USA". QHA. QHA. Retrieved 13 August 2014.
Aydın, Filiz Tutku (September 2000). A Case in Diaspora Nationalism: Crimean Tatars in Turkey - A Master's Thesis. Ankara: Department of Political Science and Public Administration, Bilkent University. pp. 56, 70–71.
Murat, Taner (2012). Opening the Doors of Science. Iaşi: StudIS. pp. 80–81. ISBN 978-6-0662-4294-3.
Murat, Taner, ed. (2013). Metric Conversions/Мэтрэлі кайтармалар (in English and Crimean Tatar). Charleston, SC: CreateSpace. p. 34. ISBN 978-1-4944-4144-9.
Murat, Taner, ed. (2014). Perúzelí salînğak/Leagănul cu peruzea (in Crimean Tatar and Romanian). Charleston, SC: CreateSpace. pp. 24–27. ISBN 978-1-4993-8689-9.
Sakarya, Ercan. "Gurbet mektupları". Kalgay (in Turkish) (30). Retrieved 13 August 2014.

SV Stegersbach is an Austrian association football club playing in the 5th tier Burgenland II Liga South for the 2024–25 season.


== Current squad ==

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


== Staff ==
Trainer:  Joachim Poandl
Co-Trainer:  Siderits Helmut
Goalkeeper coach:  Kreitzer Josef
Physio:  Attlila Fider


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

FC Séquence de Dixinn is an association football club from Guinea based in Dixinn. They play their home games at 35,000 capacity Stade du 28 Septembre.


== Achievements ==
Guinée Coupe Nationale: 3
Winner: 2010, 2011, 2012
Guinée Super Coupe: 2
Winner: 2010, 2011


== Performance in CAF competitions ==
CAF Confederation Cup: 2 appearances
2011 – Preliminary round
2012 – First Round


== Current players ==

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


== References ==

Charles Kente Williams (né Bowens; born October 21, 1977), better known by his stage name Keak da Sneak, is an American rapper from Oakland, California. He is known for his gravelly voice, for coining the term "hyphy" in 1994, and for his contributions to the hyphy movement.
He has collaborated frequently with fellow West Coast rapper E-40.


== Early life ==
Keak da Sneak was born in Brewton, Alabama. As a newborn, he moved to Oakland, California. He found popularity while attending Allendale Elementary School, which he parlayed into later friendships and talent show performances at Oakland's Bret Harte Junior High. Through theater, Keak met his collaborator Agerman.


== Career ==
Keak and Agerman formed Dual Committee when Keak was 15 years old. The duo's performances were first recorded on "Murder Man" and "Stompin in My Steel Toes" on C-BO's 1994 EP, The Autopsy. Citing the personal growth of all three artists, he later signed as a solo artist with Sacramento-based Moe Doe Records. As a result of the signing, he began to receive more radio airplay, especially on San Francisco hip-hop station KMEL.


=== 3X Krazy ===

By the end of their junior year in high school, Keak and his collaborators had recruited rapper B.A. to form the group 3X Krazy. Their first EP, Sick-O, was released independently on August 5, 1995. In 1996 they signed to Virgin Records, releasing the album Stackin' Chips on March 8, 1997 (with help from the single Keep It on the Real; the album received national attention), the second album Immortalized, and then the release of Real Talk 2000 on January 18, 2000. The last 3X Krazy album, a collection of previously unreleased material and remixed songs from Sick-O, was Flowamatic-9, which was released in 2004. The group eventually disbanded.


=== Solo career ===
After years working in the underground scene, Keak began to see mainstream success in 2004 with the song Super Hyphy. His 2006 collaboration with E-40, Tell Me When to Go, received national attention. In total, Keak da Sneak has released almost 20 albums and several mixtapes.


=== Television ===
Keak was featured on MTV's My Super Sweet 16.


== Personal life ==
Williams has been married to Dee Bowens since February 14, 2004. He has four children.
After surviving a shooting in January 2017, Williams carried a gun for protection, which led to an arrest for possession of a firearm by a convicted felon. During his trial two years later, he was shot eight times at a Richmond gas station, rendering him a paraplegic requiring the use of a wheelchair.
After a two-year legal battle, Williams was sentenced to 16 months in state custody. He served five months of his sentence at the California Health Care Facility before being released early due to Proposition 57. Williams returned home to his family after his release.


== Discography ==


=== Solo albums ===
Sneakacydal (1999)
Hi-Tek (2001)
Retaliation (2002)
The Farm Boyz (2002)
Counting Other Peoples Money (2003)
Town Business (2004)
Keak da Sneak (2004)
Town Business Raw N’ Uncut (2005)
That’s My Word (2005)
Thizz Iz Allndadoe (2006)
Contact Sport (2006)
Kunta Kinte (2006)
The Farm Boyz Starring Keak (2006)
AllNDaDoe Volume 4, 5, 6... One Of Them Muthafuckaz... (2006)
On One (2007)
G-14 Classified (2007)
All N Da Doe (2008)
Deified (2008)
Thizz Iz All N Da Doe (Volume 2) (2009)
Mobb Boss (2010)
Keak Hendrix (2011)
The Tonite Show (Sneakacydal Returns) With Keak Da Sneak (with DJ.Fresh) (2011)
The Tonite Show (Sneakacydal Returns Instrumentals) With Keak Da Sneak (with DJ.Fresh) (2011)
Cheddar Cheese I Say (2012)
The Hoods Gonna Bump It (2014)
Withdrawl (with The Mekanix) (2017)
Gorilla (with The Mekanix) (2020)
Selfmade (The Album) (2022)
What’s Uppie (2022)
Mobsta (Deluxe Edition) (2022)
Still Going Dumb (2022)
81 Shots (2023)
Gorilla (Instrumentals) (with The Mekanix) (2025)


=== Collaboration albums ===
Dual Committee (with Dual Committee) (2000)
Da Bidness (with Messy Marv & P.S.D. Tha Drivah) (2007)
Welcome To Scokland (with San Quinn) (2008)
Word Pimpin 2: We Don't Need You (with Baby S and Q-Z) (2008)
Da Bidness Part II (with Messy Marv & P.S.D. Tha Drivah) (2010)
The Allinner Album (with Benner) (2010)
Mobbin’ With Mr. Sicaluphacous (with Mac Reese) (2016)
Drugs, Rap, & Violence (with Kaliban, as Gooch Gang) (2018)
Lean & Cookies (with Project Pat & Kafani) (2019)
Life After Death (The Leak) (with Kafani) (2019)
Starters In The Game & Contact Sport (Scrappers & Thizz Deluxe Edition) (with Mac Dre) (2024)
O To The O (with Deezy Hollow) (2025)
3X Ruthless (with Black C) (2026)


=== Compilation albums ===
The Appearances (2002)
Dopegame (The Comp) (2004)
Da Mixtape (Volume One) (2005)
Da Mixtape (Volume 2) (2005)
Town Business B-Sides & Bootlegs: Da Mixtape (Volume 3) Old Shit (2005)
Da Mixtape (Volume 4) (2005)
Dopegame 2 (The Comp) (2005)
Dopegame 3 (The Comp) (2005)
King Of Tha Supa Dupa Hyphy (2006)
Block Music (2006)
The Farm Boyz (Special Edition) (2006)
Chadada: The Mixtape (Volume 1) (2007)
Greatest Hits (2007)
The Best Of: Thizz Iz All N Da Doe (Thizz Nation Volume 22) (2008)
Let’s Get Thizzical (The Mixtape) (2008)
Oaklandary (Volume 1) (2024)
Oaklandary (Volume 2) (2025)
Oaklandary (Volume 3) (2025)
Oaklandary (Volume 4) (2025)


=== Soundtrack albums ===
Copium (2005)


==== As featured artist ====


== References ==


== External links ==
Keak da Sneak at AllMusic

Namana Rambabu is an Indian politician from Andhra Pradesh. He is the Telugu Desam Party state organizing secretary. He served as the 21st ZP chairman for East Godavari District, Andhra Pradesh.


== Political profile ==

Namana Rambabu was born on 5 December 1957 in common agricultural family at Magatapalli(v) of Mamidkuduru Mandal of East Godavari District. His father Namana Venkata Rao is an agriculture farmer and mother Smt Appalanarasamamba is a house wife. He had elementary education in local MPP School and had High School education in ZPHS, Mamidikuduru mandal Later, he completed college education and acquired graduation in BA from Andhra University, being best friends with Dr Muhammed Patel. He is married to Krishna Veni and they have two children.
At the beginning days of TDP, he entered in the politics in the TDP as a follower and served as village level committee President in TDP at Mamidikuduru mandal and later he was as Mandal level president in TDP at same mandal for a long time from 1985. As a result of sudden and premature death of Nagaram MLA, Sri Undru Krishna Rao, The Telugu Desam Party President Sri N.T.Rama Rao, the then Chief Minister of erstwhile Andhra Pradesh has got appointed him as Nagaram constituency TDP Incharge and thus he rendered the meritorious and outstanding services to the Party from 20 September 1986 to 19 September 1999 and 12 October 2001 to 14 May 2004. Later, he worked as Nagaram Agriculture Market Committee Chairman (AMC Chairman) twice apart from that served as Vice-President of Rice Millors Association in East Godavari District. In addition to that he is rendering State Secretary in the Telugu Desam Party for the last 10 years. Likewise he gradually grownup in the politics and ascended the highest positions in the Telugu Desam Party.


== Development works ==
Namana Rambabu able to implement several developmental works including laying of CC roads to all the remote area villages in East Godavari District. The drinking water problem during summer also could be solved effectively enlisting the support of the DWMA in getting repairs to 42 drinking water projects in East Godavari District as Zilla Parshad(ZP) Chairman.


== Awards ==
Zilla Parishad(ZP) Chairman Namana Rambabu Received This Award Rajiv Gandhi Panchayat Swashaktikaran Abhiyan(RGPSA) For The Year 2014–2015.


== References ==

The Men's 50 metre freestyle competition of the 2021 FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m) was held on 18 and 19 December 2021.


== Records ==
Prior to the competition, the existing world and championship records were as follows.


== Results ==


=== Heats ===
The heats were started on 18 December at 10:26.


=== Semifinals ===
The semifinals were started on 18 December at 18:38.


=== Final ===
The final was held on 19 December at 19:06.


== References ==

World Toilet Day (WTD) is an official United Nations international observance day on 19 November to inspire action to tackle the global sanitation crisis. Worldwide, 3.4 billion people live without "safely managed sanitation" and around 354 million people practice open defecation. Sustainable Development Goal 6 aims to "Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all". In particular, target 6.2 is to "End open defecation and provide access to sanitation and hygiene". When the Sustainable Development Goals Report 2020 was published, United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres said, "Today, Sustainable Development Goal 6 is badly off track" and it "is hindering progress on the 2030 Agenda, the realization of human rights and the achievement of peace and security around the world".
World Toilet Day exists to inform, engage and inspire people to take action toward achieving this goal. The UN General Assembly declared World Toilet Day an official UN day in 2013, after Singapore had tabled the resolution (its first resolution before the UN's General Assembly of 193 member states). Prior to that, World Toilet Day had been established unofficially by the World Toilet Organization (a Singapore-based NGO) in 2001.
UN-Water is the official convener of World Toilet Day. UN-Water maintains the official World Toilet Day website and chooses a special theme for each year. In 2020 the theme was "Sustainable sanitation and climate change". In 2019 the theme was 'Leaving no one behind', which is the central theme of the Sustainable Development Goals. Themes in previous years include nature-based solutions, wastewater, toilets and jobs, and toilets and nutrition.  World Toilet Day is marked by communications campaigns and other activities. Events are planned by UN entities, international organizations, local civil society organizations and volunteers to raise awareness and inspire action.
Toilets are important because access to a safe functioning toilet has a positive impact on public health, human dignity, and personal safety, especially for females. Sanitation systems that do not safely treat excreta (urine and feces) allow for the spread of disease. Serious soil-transmitted diseases and waterborne diseases such as cholera, diarrhea, typhoid, dysentery and schistosomiasis can result.


== Convener ==

In 2013, UN-Water and the "Thematic Priority Area (TPA) on Drinking Water and Basic Sanitation" received the mandate to oversee World Toilet Day each year. This mandate is described in the United Nations Resolution A/67/L.75.
In consultation with the UN-Water World Toilet Day Task Force, made up of UN-Water member organizations, UN-Water selects the theme based on that year's World Water Development Report and develops content for World Toilet Day communications campaigns.
UN-Water manages the World Toilet Day website which promotes key issues and stories, provides communications and campaigns resources, and announces events and opportunities to participate.
The overall World Toilet Day campaign mobilizes civil society, think tanks, non-governmental organizations, academics, corporations and the general public to participate in the associated social media and communications campaigns. Ultimately, the aim is to encourage organizations and governments to plan activities and action on sanitation issues to make progress on Sustainable Development Goal 6.


== Annual themes ==

Since 2012, each World Toilet Day has been given a theme. Since 2016, the same overall annual theme has been used for both World Toilet Day and World Water Day, based on the World Water Development Report. 

2012 – "I give a shit, do you?"
2013 – Tourism and water
2014 – Equality and dignity
2015 – Toilets and nutrition
2016 – Toilets and jobs
2017 – Wastewater
2018 – Nature-based solutions (slogan: "When Nature calls")
2019 – Leaving no one behind – The campaign draws attention to those people being "left behind without sanitation and the social, economic and environmental consequences of inaction". This is closely related to Sustainable Development Goal 6 which has a target to eliminate open defecation and ensure "everyone has access to sustainable sanitation services by 2030, paying special attention to the needs of women and girls and those in vulnerable situations".
2020 – Sustainable sanitation and climate change
2021 – Valuing toilets: The WTO and Bill Gates both believe that if value can be given to toilet waste, then funds will be generated to pay for any cleanup including profits for entrepreneurs interested in investing in related industries.
2022 – Groundwater and sanitation – making the invisible visible.
2023 – Accelerating Change
2024 – Toilets are a place for peace.
2025 – Sanitation in a changing world


== Examples of activities and events ==


=== Launch of reports ===
Some organizations launch toilet-related (or sanitation-related) reports on World Toilet Day. For example:

The Toilet Board Coalition (2017) "Sanitation Economy"
Water and Sanitation for the Urban Poor (WSUP) (2017) "Guide to strengthening the enabling environment for faecal sludge management"
The International Labour Office (ILO) (2016) "WASH@Work: self-training handbook
WHO, UNICEF and USAID (2015) "Improving Nutrition Outcomes with Better Water, Sanitation and Hygiene: Practical Solutions for Policies and Programmes"


=== Events ===
2012: The Gates Foundation held a “Reinventing the Toilet" fair.
2019: Planned events for World Toilet Day 2019 include for example a workshop in the USA entitled "Manure Management – What Poop Can Teach Youth!", art installations in Ireland under the theme "Think Before You Flush", and a "Toilets for all Campaign in Rural areas" in Madhya Pradesh, India.
2018: Events for World Toilet Day in 2018 included diverse activities such as a 'hackathon' in Ghana to promote digital solutions, a seminar hosted by Engineers without Borders in Denmark, a screening and discussion of the Bollywood movie Toilet: Ek Prem Katha (in English – Toilet: A Love Story) in Canada, and a school drawing competition in India.
2017: Members of the Sustainable Sanitation Alliance (SuSanA) used the momentum around World Toilet Day in 2017 to update Wikipedia articles on WASH-related topics. This contributed to public education about the sanitation crisis. The documentary "Follow the Flush," released 19 November 2017, educated people about what happens beneath the streets of New York City after a person flushes a toilet in Manhattan. In the lead-up to World Toilet Day 2017, communities worldwide came together for sanitation-themed "Urgent Runs". More than 63 events were held in 42 countries. Events included fun runs, awareness walks, toilet cleaning programs, carnivals and even motorbike parades. Countries participating include: Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Burundi, Cambodia, Cameroon, Canada, China, Congo-Brazzaville, France, Gambia, Germany, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Italy, Kenya, Mongolia, Mozambique, Namibia, Netherlands, Pakistan, Philippines, Senegal, Tanzania, United States and Vietnam.


== Impacts ==


=== Social media impacts ===
The World Toilet Day campaign and related publications reach millions of people through social media, dedicated websites and other channels. Over 100 events in 40 countries were registered on the World Toilet Day website in both 2016 and in 2017. In 2017, the hashtag #WorldToiletDay had a maximum potential reach of over 750 million people on social media. In 2018, the maximum potential reach increased by 15%, compared to 2017; the online activity and authors also increased by 12% and 22% compared to 2017, respectively.


== History ==

On 19 November 2001, the NGO World Toilet Organization (WTO) was founded by Jack Sim, a philanthropist from Singapore. He subsequently declared 19 November as World Toilet Day. The name "World Toilet Day" and not "World Sanitation Day" was chosen for ease of public messaging, even though toilets are only the first stage of sanitation systems.
World Toilet Day events and public awareness campaigns increase public awareness of the broader sanitation systems that include wastewater treatment, fecal sludge management, municipal solid waste management, stormwater management, hygiene, and handwashing. Also, the UN Sustainable Development Goals call for more than just toilets. Goal 6 calls for adequate sanitation, which includes the whole system for assuring that waste is safely processed.
The WTO began pushing for global recognition for World Toilet Day and, in 2007, the Sustainable Sanitation Alliance (SuSanA) also began to actively support World Toilet Day. Their efforts to raise attention for the sanitation crisis were bolstered in 2010 when the human right to water and sanitation was officially declared a human right by the UN.
In 2013, a joint initiative between the Government of Singapore and the World Toilet Organization led to Singapore's first ever UN resolution, named "Sanitation for All". The resolution calls for collective action to end the world's sanitation crisis. World Toilet Day was declared an official UN day in 2013. That resolution was adopted by 122 countries at the 67th session of the UN General Assembly in New York.
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) replaced the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in 2016. On World Toilet Day on 19 November 2015, United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon urged broad action to renew efforts to provide access to adequate sanitation for all. He reminded everyone of the "Call to Action on Sanitation" which was launched in 2013, and the aim to end open defecation by 2025. He also said: "By many accounts, sanitation is the most-missed target of the Millennium Development Goals."
The UN Deputy Secretary-General, Jan Eliasson, was honored on World Toilet Day in 2016 in New York for his deep commitment to breaking the sanitation taboo. For example, he had delivered a video message to attendees of a WaterAid and Unilever joint event in the European Parliament on World Toilet Day 2014. In 2016, UN-Water supported "A Toast for Toilets" in New York with the United Nations Mission of Singapore.


== Background ==

Worldwide, 3.4 billion people live without "safely managed sanitation" and around 354 million people practice open defecation. Having to urinate in the open can also be difficult for women and girls. Females tend to resort to the cover of darkness to give them more privacy, but then risk being attacked when alone at night.
It has been estimated that 58% of all cases of diarrhea worldwide in 2015 were caused by unsafe water, poor sanitation and poor hygiene practices, such as inadequate handwashing. This resulted in half a million children under the age of five dying from diarrhea per year. Providing sanitation has been estimated to lower the odds of children suffering diarrhea by 7–17%, and under-five mortality by 5–20%.
The Human Right to Water and Sanitation was recognized as a human right by the United Nations (UN) General Assembly on 28 July 2010. Lack of access to sanitation (toilets) has an impact on public health, dignity, and safety. The spread of many diseases (e.g. soil-transmitted helminthiasis, diarrhea, schistosomiasis) and stunted growth in children is directly related to people being exposed to human feces because toilets are either not available or not used.
Sustainable Development Goal 6 aims to provide sanitation for all.


== See also ==
Bindeshwar Pathak, another toilet pioneer
Brown Friday
Global Handwashing Day
Human right to water and sanitation
Menstrual Hygiene Day
WASH
Water issues in developing countries
Workers' right to access the toilet


== References ==
 
Home Hub (2 June 2021). "Portable Toilets for Truckers". Toilet Plumber. Archived from the original on 21 September 2023. Retrieved 2 June 2021.


== External links ==

World Toilet Day history on Stamps
World Toilet Day official website
World Toilet Day on United Nations website
World Toilet Day Hygiene and Sanitation

Chippewassee Park is one of the largest developed public parks in Midland, Michigan, United States, and the location of the tourist attraction The Tridge and other major features and events. The park, approximately 35 acres (14 ha), is located in the city's Midland West neighborhood and connects to the Historic neighborhood.


== Location ==
The park's 35 acres (14 ha) are located west of the confluence of the Tittabawassee and Chippewa rivers at the end of Ashman Street, and the park runs along M-20. Currie Golf Course shares the park's M-20 border. It is located in the city's Midland West neighborhood and connects to the Historic neighborhood and Towsley Dike Park via The Tridge.


== Features ==
There are numerous picnic and physical activity features available for public use—such as grills, picnic tables, play equipment, and a paved 1,000-foot (300 m) trail loop. In the winter months, it is used for cross-country skiing.


=== Midland Dog Park ===
Midland's only public dog park is a four-acre (1.6 ha) fenced-in area at the west end of Chippewassee Park near the Trilogy Skate Park. It was developed in 2005 with an anonymous gift of $40,000 (equivalent to $62,000 in 2024). 


=== The Tridge ===

The Tridge is a three-way wooden footbridge spanning the confluence of the Chippewa and Tittabawassee rivers. Named as a portmanteau of "tri" and "bridge", the structure opened in 1981. It consists of one 31-foot-tall (9.4 m) central pillar supporting three spokes. Each spoke is 180 feet (55 m) long by 8 feet (2.4 m) wide. It connects the park to the historic neighborhood of Midland and Towsley Dike Park. It is considered a tourist attraction.


=== Trilogy Skate Park ===
A 15,000 soft public skatepark for skateboards, inline skates, and bikes. It has a lighting system available for use.


== Events ==
The park has a sheltered area utilized for events and available for usage on a first come, first served basis.


=== River Days Festival ===
An annual free four-day festival featuring hot air balloons, children's activities, music, and food vendors.


== See also ==
List of parks in Midland County, Michigan


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

The International Association for Cereal Science and Technology (ICC) was founded in 1955 and was originally called the International Association for Cereal Chemistry. It was set up to develop international standard testing procedures for cereals and flour. It has currently more than fifty member countries and headquarters in Vienna, Austria. The ICC celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2005.


== History ==
The International Association for Cereal Science and Technology (ICC) was founded in 1955 in Hamburg, Germany, and was originally named the International Association for Cereal Chemistry. The founding took place at the third International Bread Congress. The impetus was to develop "internationally approved and accepted standard testing procedures for cereals and flour". Leading scientists involved in the establishment of the association included Dr. Friedrich Schweitzer (Austria), Dr. Fuchs and Dr. Paul F. Pelshenke (Germany), Dr. Hintzer (The Netherlands), Prof. Maes (Belgium), Prof. Buré (France), and Dr. Widhe (Sweden). The United States and Canada were represented by Dr. Shellenberger, Dr. Zeleny, and Dr. Andersen. Schweitzer was the first president of the ICC.
In 1978, the name of the association was changed to the International Association for Cereal Science and Technology, as members felt it better reflected the association's scope. The ICC celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2005.  Its headquarters are in Vienna.


== Activities ==
The ICC holds an international congress, the Cereals and Bread Congress, as well as local meetings and symposia around the world. Friedrich Schweitzer organised the first international meeting of the association, which was held in Vienna on 5–8 December 1956, and a second ten years later, also in Vienna. 
The ICC confers a number of awards and honours significant contributions with Fellow of the ICC Academy. The foremost medal is the Clyde H. Bailey Medal, which was initiated in 1969 and is awarded for "outstanding achievements in cereals science and technology". The Friedrich Schweitzer Medal, created in 1989, is awarded for distinguished service to the ICC.


== References ==


== External links ==
ICC home page
List of ICC standard methods

Jesse Murdock Jr. (September 17, 1938 – September 25, 1965) was an American collegiate and Professional Football player. After graduating from California Western University he served in the United States Marine Corps (1958 to 1961), then tried out for the American Football League's San Diego Chargers in 1963.  After being released by the Chargers' Sid Gillman during training camp, he played for the AFL's Oakland Raiders and Buffalo Bills in the 1963 AFL season.
Murdock was killed in an automobile accident on September 25, 1965, and was buried with full military honors at the Golden Gate National Cemetery, San Bruno, California.


== See also ==
List of American Football League players


== References ==

Elections to Barnsley Metropolitan Borough Council were held on 4 May 1978. One-third of the council was up for election. The election resulted in Labour retaining control of the council. The sole Democratic Labour councillor elected in 1973 successfully defended his seat as an Independent, while the only Independent elected that year was unable to defend his seat as a Conservative.


== Election result ==

This resulted in the following composition of the council:


== Ward results ==
+/- figures represent changes from the last time these wards were contested.


== References ==

Michael Cheung Tin-fu (born 1 December 1996), better known by his stage name MC Cheung Tin-fu, is a Hong Kong singer and actor. He rose to fame as the runner-up in the 2019 talent competition reality show King Maker II. He subsequently signed a record deal with Warner Music Hong Kong and made his debut with the single "Good Time" in 2021. He won various new artist awards, including 2021 Ultimate Song Chart Best Male Newcomer (Gold).


== Early life and education ==
Cheung was born in Hong Kong on 1 December 1996. At a young age, he emigrated to Canada to pursue studies, where he subsequently graduated.


== Career ==
Cheung gained prominence as a runner-up in the 2019 Hong Kong reality competition show, King Maker II. He rejected an offer from ViuTV to join a boyband in order to pursue a solo career. In December 2020, Cheung signed a record label deal with Warner Music Hong Kong and released his debut EP Have a Good Time (2021) a year later. His 2021 single "Pillow Talk" topped the Hong Kong Songs chart for 12 weeks and its accompanying music video earned more than 20 million YouTube views. The success helped Cheung earned the gold award for Best New Male Artist at the Ultimate Song Chart Awards Presentation 2021.


== Impact ==
In 2023, Cheung was named among Forbes's Asia "30 under 30" list.


== Discography ==


=== Studio albums ===


=== Extended plays ===


=== Singles ===


== Filmography ==


=== Television shows ===


=== Films ===


=== Music video appearances ===


== Concerts ==


=== Concert participation ===


== Awards ==


=== Music Awards ===


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
MC on Instagram
MC on Youtube
MC on Facebook

William Coghill (c. 1784-1860) was a pioneer pastoralist and squatter in the Port Phillip District of New South Wales (later Victoria).
Coghill was born in Scotland, probably in 1783 or 1784. At his wedding in Wick, Scotland in 1812, his occupation was listed as shoemaker.  He continued in that trade until his departure for New South Wales. Coghill arrived in New South Wales on board the Mangles in 1824, captained by his brother John.
In January 1838, William Coghill and two of his sons travelled from the Monaro Plains, New South Wales, to the Port Phillip District, with John Stuart Hepburn and 2000 sheep. By April 1838, the Coghills had established a run at  Glendaruel, near present-day Clunes. By mid 1840, William was back on his property in New South Wales, leaving his sons in charge on the Glendaruel pastoral lease, which was split into two. The second was Glendonald station on Coghills Creek.  William later moved to the Moonee Moonee Ponds Creek near Tullamarine.
In 1846, Coghill formed the Immigration Society with others, including A.M. Campbell and G.C. Curlewis, to encourage labourers to the area. Coghill, his wife and younger children lived on the Cumberland Estate on the south of Gellibrand Hill from about 1845 and became prominent in local affairs, including the establishment of the first Scottish Presbyterian church in the district. William's Sons David and George established their own pastoral properties nearby.
Coghill died on 19 July 1860 (aged 76).


== Notes ==


== References ==

Barkheda Kalan is a village in the Bhopal district of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is located in the Berasia tehsil.


== Demographics ==
According to the 2011 census of India, Barkheda Kalan has 155 households. The effective literacy rate (i.e. the literacy rate of population excluding children aged 6 and below) is 61.45%.


== References ==

Ōga Station (大神駅, Ōga-eki) is a passenger railway station located in the town of Hiji, Ōita Prefecture, Japan. It is operated by JR Kyushu.


== Lines ==
The station is served by the Nippō Main Line and is located 103.3 km from the starting point of the line at Kokura.


== Layout ==
The station consists of an island platform serving two tracks at grade. The station building is a modern concrete structure which houses an enclosed waiting room and a staffed ticket window. Access to the island platform is by means of a level crossing with steps at both ends.
Management of the station has been outsourced to the JR Kyushu Tetsudou Eigyou Co., a wholly owned subsidiary of JR Kyushu specialising in station services. It staffs the ticket booth which is equipped with a POS machine but does not have a Midori no Madoguchi facility.


=== Platforms ===


== History ==
Japanese National Railways (JNR) opened the station on 1 June 1952 as an additional station on the existing track of the  Nippō Main Line. With the privatization of JNR on 1 April 1987, the station came under the control of JR Kyushu.


== Passenger statistics ==
In fiscal 2016, the station was used by an average of 481 passengers daily (boarding passengers only), and it ranked 248th among the busiest stations of JR Kyushu.


== Surrounding area ==
Oita Prefectural Hiji Special Needs Education School
Oita Prefectural Hidashidani High School
Oita Prefectural Hiji Sogo High School


== See also ==
List of railway stations in Japan


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Ōga Station at Wikimedia Commons

Official website (in Japanese)

Bonnie Jean Baxter (born 1946) is an American artist (born in Texarkana, Texas). She studied art in Illinois (1965–1967) and Michigan (1967–1969) and came to Montreal, Canada, with her artist husband, Pierre Lemieux, in 1970. She has lived in Canada since 1972. She was one of the first members of the Atelier de l’Île and created Atelier Le Scarabée. She printed for other Canadian artists such as Canadian artist Jean-Paul Riopelle and René Derouin. Baxter is known for her artworks that combine animal and human forms.
In 2017 she was awarded the prix Charles-Biddle. She also received the Prix Télé-Québec 2019 as part of the 11e BIECTR and the Prix les grand Soleils (a Lifetime achievement award) in 2018. In 2019 she was the subject of a retrospective exhibition at the Musée d’art contemporain des Laurentides. Her work has been presented in Canada and internationally including solo exhibitions at Musée d'art contemporain des Laurentides (MACLAU), the Bob Rauschenberg Gallery in Florida and Centre Clark in Montréal, Quebec.


== Collections ==
Baxter's work is included in the collection of the Musée national des beaux-arts du Québec, Bonnie Baxter is represented by the gallery Blouin | Division in Montréal Québec. and the Istanbul Museum of Graphic Arts.


== References ==

Shamel is a Goan percussion instrument. There are two variants of shamel: the original one, and the zod shamel. The shamel is played with two thin cane or bamboo sticks, one of which is straight, and the other is curved at the end. The sticks are from a tree called beth. The shamel is vase shaped and covered with goat skin. The base of the shamel is carved out of 'Khair' (acacia catechu) wood. The height of the shamel varies from 25-40 cm while the length of the sticks is around 30–35 cm.


== References & Notes ==

The Order of Burma was founded by Royal Warrant on 10 May 1940, and conferred in a single class. It was awarded by the Governor of British Burma for long, faithful and honourable service by Governor's Commissioned (i.e. native Burmese) Officers in the Burma Army, the Burma Frontier Force and the Burma Military Police. In September 1945 the royal warrant was amended to permit awards of the order for gallantry.
In 1937 Burmese officers had ceased to be eligible for the Order of British India when Burma became a distinct colony, separate from British India. The Order of Burma was, effectively, a replacement for the Order of British India and was awarded on similar terms.
When established, there was a fixed establishment of twenty eight members, sixteen for the Burma Army, and twelve for the Burma Frontier Force and Military Police, with vacancies filled once annually as they occurred. The award carried an allowance of one rupee a day for life, unless forfeited by misconduct.
Recipients were entitled to the post-nominal letters OB. Only 24 Burmese officers were ever made members of the order for long and loyal service.
The badge of the order consisted of a gold rayed circle, 39 millimetres (1.5 in) in diameter, surmounted by an Imperial crown, with a central roundel showing a peacock displaying his tail, surrounded by the words ‘ORDER OF BURMA’. It was worn from a neck ribbon of dark green edged with light blue.
The government of post-independence Burma created the Pyidaungsu Sithu Thingaha, (or Order of the Union of Burma) to replace the Order of Burma on 2 September 1948.


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Dorling, H. Taprell (1956). Ribbons and Medals. London: A. H. Baldwin & Son.
Duckers, Peter (2009) [2004]. British Orders and Decorations. Oxford: Shire Publications. ISBN 978-0-7478-0580-9. OCLC 55587484.
Mussell, John W. (2015). Medal Yearbook 2015. Honiton, Devon: Token Publishing Limited. ISBN 978-1-908-828-16-3.

The 2020–21 Rutgers Scarlet Knights men's basketball team represented Rutgers University–New Brunswick during the 2020–21 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Scarlet Knights were led by fifth-year head coach Steve Pikiell and played their home games at the Rutgers Athletic Center in Piscataway, New Jersey as seventh-year members of the Big Ten Conference. They finished the season 16–12, 10–10 in Big Ten play to finish in a tie for sixth place. As the No. 7 seed in the Big Ten tournament, they defeated Indiana in the second round before losing to Illinois in the quarterfinals. They received an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament, their first NCAA Tournament appearance since 1991. As the No.10 seed in the Midwest region, they defeated Clemson in the first round before losing to Houston in the second round.


== Previous season ==
The Knights finished the 2019–20 season 20–11 and 11–9 in Big Ten play to finish in a four-way tie for fifth place. Following the regular season, the Big Ten tournament and all subsequent postseason tournaments were canceled due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, effectively ending the Knights' season. In January 2020, Rutgers was nationally ranked for the first time since 1979.


== Offseason ==


=== Departures ===


=== 2020 recruiting class ===


== Roster ==


== Schedule and results ==


== Rankings ==

^AP and Coaches did not release a Week 1 poll, and Coaches did not release a Week 2 poll.


== References ==

High society is a category of people deemed to have social status or prestige.
High Society may also refer to:


== Films ==
High Society (1924 film), an Our Gang silent comedy
High Society (1932 film), a comedy film starring Florence Desmond
High Society (1955 film), a Bowery Boys film
High Society (1956 film), an MGM musical film
High Society (2014 film), a French drama film
High Society (2017 film), a German romantic comedy film
High Society (2018 film), a South Korean film


== Music ==
"High Society" (Bear Hands song)
"High Society" (composition), a 1901 jazz standard written by Porter Steele
High Society (Enon album)
High Society (Epik High album)
High Society (High Contrast album)
High Society (Kottonmouth Kings album)
High Society (soundtrack), from the 1956 film
High Society (The Silver Seas album)


== Musicals ==
High Society (musical), a 1998 Broadway musical based on the 1956 film
High Society (musical) § Other versions, a 2004 West End musical based on the 1956 film


== Publications ==
High Society (comics), a Cerebus the Aardvark story
High Society (magazine), a U.S. pornographic magazine
High Society (novel), by Ben Elton


== Television ==
High Society (1995 TV series), an American sitcom
High Society (2010 TV series), an American reality show
High Society (2015 TV series), a South Korean drama series


== Buildings ==
High Society (Canberra), a high-rise residential complex in Canberra, Australia


== See also ==
Gentry
Socialite
Upper class

The Technical University of Crete (TUC; Greek: Πολυτεχνείο Κρήτης, Polytechneio Kritis) is a state university under the supervision of the Greek Ministry of Education which was founded in 1977 in Chania, Crete. The first students were admitted in 1984. The purpose of the institution is to conduct research, to provide under-graduate and graduate educational programs in modern engineering fields as well as to develop links with the Greek industry. It is highly ranked among the Greek technical universities in terms of research productivity, research funding, scientific publications and citation per faculty member. It uses Daedalus as part of the emblem.


== Academic structure ==
The Technical University of Crete consists of five engineering schools, all of which offer undergraduate and postgraduate study programmes. The school of Electronic and Computer Engineering was renamed to School of Electrical and Computer Engineering in July 2016.


== Research ==

The Technical University of Crete is particularly active in conducting basic and applied research such as:
School of Production Engineering and Management, focused on Technology (and how to use it for Production) and in part how to manage said technology. (Computer Aided Manufacturing, Intelligent Technological Systems, Computer Aided Design, Robotics, Environmental Engineering and Management, Dynamic Systems and Simulation, Decision Support Systems, Data Analysis and Forecasting, Financial Engineering, Management Systems, Work Safety and Cognitive Ergonomics, Applied Socioeconomic Research),
School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, focused on Programming and how Electronics function. (Distributed Multimedia Information Systems and Applications, Intelligent Systems, Software Technology and Network Applications, Electronics, Electric Circuits and Renewable Energy Sources, Microprocessor and Hardware, Automation, Information and Networks, Telecommunications, Digital Image and Signal Processing),
School of Mineral Resources Engineering, focused on Geology and how to obtain minerals. (Applied Geology, Applied Geophysics, Applied Mineralogy, Petrology and Economic Geology, Geodesy and Geomatics, Rock Mechanics, Mine Design, Solid Fuels Beneficiation and Technology, Ore Processing.)
School of Environmental Engineering, focused on Sustainability. (Liquid and Solid Waste Management, Water Resources and Coastal Engineering, Sustainable Energy, Remediation Engineering, Air Pollution, Environmental Sciences), and
School of Architecture, focused on Art and Design. (Architectural Design, Urban design and Planning, Digital Technologies in Architectural Design, History and Theory of Architecture and Art, Landscape Architecture, Visual Arts, Restoration of Buildings).


== Campus ==
The campus is located on a panoramic site in the peninsula of Akrotiri and covers an area of 750 acres (3.0 km2), 7 km northeast of Chania and 1 km from Kounoupidiana. Library, IT & Communications Centre, cafeterias, sports facilities and students' dormitories are located on campus.


== Academic evaluation ==
The Technical University of Crete is among the top Greek institutions with the highest rate of research publications per faculty member.
In 2015 the external evaluation of the institution cited Technical University of Crete as Worthy of merit.
An external evaluation of all academic departments in Greek universities was recently conducted by the Hellenic Quality Assurance and Accreditation Agency (HQAA).
According to the Times Higher Education (THE) list of best Universities in the world for 2022, Technical University of Crete is among the top 1.000 in the world (place 801-1000) and among the top 600 (place 501-600) on the field of Engineering & Technology.
According to the Center for World University Rankings (CWUR),Technical University of Crete is among the top 2.000 in the world (place 1.854)for 2022.

Department of Chemical & Environmental Engineering (2011) 
Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering (2011) 
Department of Mineral Resources Engineering (2011) 
Department of Production Engineering & Management (2012) 
Department of Architecture (2013) 


== See also ==
List of universities in Greece
Polytechnic (Greece)
University of Crete
Open access in Greece


== References ==


== External links ==
Technical University of Crete (TUC) - Official Website

Årdal is a municipality in Vestland county, Norway. It is located at the end of the Årdalsfjorden in the traditional district of Sogn. The village of Årdalstangen is the administrative center of the municipality. Other villages in the municipality include Øvre Årdal, Indre Offerdal, and Seimsdalen. Årdal Municipality was established in 1863 when it was separated from Lærdal Municipality.
The 976.58-square-kilometre (377.06 sq mi) municipality is the 119th largest by area out of the 357 municipalities in Norway. Årdal Municipaltiy is the 181st most populous municipality in Norway with a population of 5,213. The municipality's population density is 5.3 inhabitants per square kilometre (14/sq mi) and its population has decreased by 4.7% over the previous 10-year period.
Årdal is a modern industrial community, with ties to the old society of farming and fishing. It is surrounded by dramatic nature with high mountains and waterfalls. The climate is rather mild and with less rain than normal in the west part of Norway. Årdal is a good starting point to explore the wild nature of Jotunheimen National Park, and with summer and winter activities within its boundaries. The Vettisfossen waterfall (highest in Norway) is located within the municipality.
The Valdres Express stops in Øvre Årdal and has its end stop in Årdalstangen. The bus line originates from Oslo.


== General information ==


=== Establishment ===
Lærdal Municipality was established as a municipality on 1 January 1838 (see formannskapsdistrikt law). The original Lærdal Municipality was identical to the Church of Norway's Lærdal prestegjeld which included the parish (sokn) of Aardal. In 1863, the parish of Aardal (population: 1,791) was separated from Lærdal Municipality and became the new Aardal Municipality (the spelling was later changed to Årdal).
During the 1960s, there were many municipal mergers across Norway due to the work of the Schei Committee. On 1 January 1964, the Muggeteigen, Luggenes, and Bergmål farms (population: 11) were transferred from Årdal Municipality to Lærdal Municipality.
Historically, this municipality was part of the old Sogn og Fjordane county. On 1 January 2020, the municipality became a part of the newly-formed Vestland county (after Hordaland and Sogn og Fjordane counties were merged).


=== Name ===

The municipality (originally the parish) is named after the Årdalen valley (Old Norse: Árdalr) since it is the central geographical feature of the municipality. The first element is the genitive case of the word á which means "river" or "creek" (referring to the Utla river). The last element is dalr which means "valley" or "dale". 
On 21 December 1917, a royal resolution enacted the 1917 Norwegian language reforms. Prior to this change, the name was spelled Aardal with the digraph "Aa", and after this reform, the name was spelled Årdal, using the letter Å instead.


=== Coat of arms ===
The coat of arms was granted on 9 August 1957. The official blazon is "Gules, three barrulets dancetty Or" (Norwegian: På raud botn ein gull trillingstreng med ormeband-skurd). This means the arms have a red field (background) and the charge is three zig-zag lines running horizontally across the escutcheon. The charge has a tincture of Or which means it is commonly colored yellow, but if it is made out of metal, then gold is used. The local economy at the time of the creation of the arms was mainly based on heavy industry, which needed a lot of electricity. The zig-zag lines in the arms symbolize both the electrical power and the industries. The zig-zag design also symbolizes the ormeband-skrud which is more or less translated as a "worm-ribbon ornament" which is a design of dragons and lindworms that were depicted in the ornamentations in the ancient Norwegian wooden stave churches in the area. The arms were designed by Hallvard Trætteberg, after an original idea by Magnus Hardeland. The municipal flag has the same design as the coat of arms.


=== Churches ===
The Church of Norway has two parishes (sokn) within Årdal Municipality. It is part of the Sogn prosti (deanery) in the Diocese of Bjørgvin.


== History ==
The group called Årdal Sogelag concerns itself with local history.
In 2016, the chief of police for Vestlandet formally suggested a reconfiguration of police districts and stations. He proposed that the police station in Årdal be closed.


=== Asylum center ===
From 1 August to 1 September 2013, Årdal Municipality received 151 asylum seekers. (Earlier, the municipal council had said no to establishing a center for asylum seekers, but the County Governor of Sogn og Fjordane ordered it anyway.) On 4 November 2013, one of the center's asylum seekers was removed by police and ordered to be deported from Norway. This was the first time an asylum seeker was deported from the Årdal asylum center. Later on the same day, there was a murder on a bus from Årdal to Oslo. One of the residents of the asylum center was found with a knife in his hand on the bus together with one dead bus driver and two dead passengers. The incident is known as the Triple murder on the Valdres Express. The police considered the asylum seeker alone as the suspected murderer.


== Geography ==

The municipality is situated at the inner part of the Årdalsfjorden, one of the beginning branches of the Sognefjorden and is a gateway to the mountain areas called Jotunheimen and Hurrungane. The highest point in the municipality is the 2,402.12-metre (7,881.0 ft) tall mountain Storen. The mountains Blåberg, Falketind, Store Austanbottstind, and Hjelledalstinden are also located in the municipality.
There are two main urban areas in Årdal: Årdalstangen and Øvre Årdal. There are also smaller village areas throughout the municipality: Naddvik (Vikadalen), Nundalen, Indre Offerdal, Ytre Offerdal, Seimsdalen, Fardalen, Avdalen, Utladalen, Vetti, and Vettismorki.
Årdal is bordered to the north and west by Luster Municipality, to the east by Vang Municipality (in Innlandet county), and to the south by Lærdal Municipality.


== Government ==
Årdal Municipality is responsible for primary education (through 10th grade), outpatient health services, senior citizen services, welfare and other social services, zoning, economic development, and municipal roads and utilities. The municipality is governed by a municipal council of directly elected representatives. The mayor is indirectly elected by a vote of the municipal council. The municipality is under the jurisdiction of the Sogn og Fjordane District Court and the Gulating Court of Appeal.


=== Municipal council ===
The municipal council (Kommunestyre) of Årdal Municipality is made up of 21 representatives that are elected to four-year terms. The tables below show the current and historical composition of the council by political party. 


=== Mayors ===
The mayor (Nynorsk: ordførar) of Årdal Municipality is the political leader of the municipality and the chairperson of the municipal council. Here is a list of people who have held this position:


== Industry ==
Årdal Municipality became a symbol of modern Norway after World War II. In the course of a few years, Årdal Municipality was transformed from a scarcely populated rural community into a more urban area situated around the aluminium plant Årdal og Sunndal Verk. Construction of the aluminium plant at Årdal started in 1941. The purpose was to build a large aluminium industry as a part of the German war effort. The Norwegian State confiscated the unfinished plant in Årdal in 1945 at the end of the war. The plant was finished by the government and production started in 1948.
The aluminium factory produced semi-finished aluminium that went on to be transformed into various products in other factories. During the early years most of the aluminium was exported. The car and airplane industries were big aluminium consumers. Some finished products were made in Norway, such as Høyang kitchen equipment, kettles, and pans.
In 1986, Årdal og Sunndal Verk was merged with Norsk Hydro under the name Hydro Aluminium AS.


== Attractions ==


=== Utladalen ===
The Vettisfossen waterfall was given protected status in 1924. With a free fall of 275 metres (902 ft), it is the highest waterfall in Northern Europe.
The Vetti Gard og Turiststasjon, a farm rich in tradition dating from around 1120, is set in dramatic natural surroundings. The farm has been involved in tourism ever since the early 19th century and now serves as a café and tourist information office in the summer. The Vettismorki mountain farm is located nearby.
The Utladalen Landscape Protection Area (314 square kilometres or 121 square miles) was established in conjunction with the Jotunheimen National Park. It comprises large parts of the Utladalen valley and adjoining side valleys. The area contains several old farms and mountain pasture farmsteads of historical interest.
Utladalen Naturhus is a nature center situated at Skåri, an old farm. Farming here ceased in the early 1970s. In 1996 work commenced on the restoration of the old cultural landscape, and the Utladalen Naturhus center was opened in May 1998. Run by the Utladalen Naturhus foundation, the aim of the centre is to inform visitors about the natural and cultural history of Utladalen and Western Jotunheimen. The centre also includes the Slingsby Museum.


=== Avdalen Gård (Farm) ===

The Avdalen farm is scenically situated on the mountainside above the beautiful Avdalen waterfall in the Utladalen valley. The land was cleared for farming in the 16th century. Abandoned in more recent times, the farm has now been restored to provide restaurant, accommodation and meeting facilities. The mill house can be seen in operation milling grain.


=== Jotunheimen National Park ===
The Jotunheimen National Park, established in 1980, covers an area of approximately 1,145 square kilometres (442 sq mi) and comprises the Hurrungane, Fannaråki, and the Rauddalstind og Mjølkedalstind peaks. Jotunheimen is a popular area for hiking in summer and skiing in winter, and the Hurrungane massif is very popular with climbers.


=== Indre Offerdal Museum ===
This old fjord-side settlement of Indre Offerdal "right down by the shore" is packed with interesting history about Årdal. Ten buildings, including a mill, sawmill, a shoreside warehouse, and farm buildings dating from the 19th century, provide insight into the beginnings of the extensive industrialization of this local community.


=== Scenic Views ===
Mountain Road from Årdal-Turtagrø:  In the summer, this road from Øvre Årdal to Turtagrø links Årdal to the Sognefjell mountain road.
Folkevegen road from Hjelle-Vetti:  From Vetti you can walk to Europe's highest waterfall (275 metres or 902 feet high). The road/path passes four waterfalls.


== Notable people ==

James O. Davidson (1854 in Årdal – 1922), an American politician who was the 21st Governor of Wisconsin
Sigurd Eldegard (1866 in Årdal – 1950), an actor, playwright and theatre director
Andreas Bjørkum (1932 in Årdal – 2014), a philologist who specialized in dialectology
Karl Seglem (born 1961 in Årdalstangen), a jazz musician, composer, and producer
Gunvor Eldegard (born 1963 in Årdal), a Norwegian politician and mayor of Årdal from 2003-2005
Odd Einar Nordheim (born 1972 in Årdal), a singer and musician known from The Voice and Stjernekamp
Beate S. Lech (born 1974), a jazz singer, composer, and lyricist who was brought up in Øvre Årdal
Tommy Øren (born 1980 in Årdalstangen), a retired footballer with over 240 club caps


== References ==


== External links ==
Municipal fact sheet from Statistics Norway (in Norwegian)
Årdal kommune (in Norwegian)
Årdalsportalen (in Norwegian)
Tindevegen (in Norwegian)
Opplev Utladalen (in Norwegian)
Årdal Sogelag—a historical society (in Norwegian)
Avdalen farm in Utladalen (in Norwegian)

Archibald Barr LLD, FRS FRSE (18 November 1855, Glenfield House, Paisley, Renfrewshire – 5 August 1931) was a Scottish scientific engineer, inventor and businessman. He was a co-founder of Barr & Stroud, and invented the Barr & Stroud Rangefinder.


== Early life and education ==
Barr was born in Glenfield House in Abbey, near Paisley, the third son of Archibald Barr, a yarn merchant, and Jeanie Stirrat, Barr was educated at Paisley Grammar School and apprenticed as an engineer to A F Craig & Co in Paisley before attending University of Glasgow to study engineering.


== Academic career ==
Barr first worked as assistant to James Thomson, Regius Professor of Civil Engineering and Mechanics at Glasgow, a post Barr was to attain himself later in his career. In 1884 he was appointed to the chair of Civil and Mechanical Engineering at the Yorkshire College (which became the University of Leeds in 1904).  In 1889 he returned to Glasgow as Regius Professor of Engineering.
In 1898 he successfully campaigned for a new chair in Electrical Engineering at Glasgow University. In 1901 he raised £54,000 to build and equip the James Watt Engineering Building at Glasgow University.


== Other activities ==
Barr was a motoring enthusiast and as a member of the Scottish Automobile Club, he participated as an organiser of Scotland's first motor car reliability trials in 1901.  He also helped to form the Scottish Aeronautical Club in 1909, becoming its president, and was a promoter of Scotland's first aviation meeting, held at Lanark in 1910.
He served as President of the Institution of Engineers and Shipbuilders in Scotland in 1910–11. Barr was also a governor of the Royal Scottish National Institution for the care of those with learning difficulties.
He also gifted £8,000 towards the cost of a new organ for Paisley Abbey.


== Honours ==
Barr was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Laws (LLD) by Glasgow upon his retirement in 1915.  He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1923.


== Marriage ==
Barr married Isabella Young in 1885.


== Death ==
Barr died at his home, Westerton of Mugdock, near Milngavie, near Glasgow, on 5 August 1931 at the age of 75.


== Positions held ==
President of the Royal Philosophical Society (Glasgow)
President of the Institution of Engineers and Shipbuilders in Scotland
President of the Scottish Aeronautical Society
President of the Optical Society, London


== References ==


== External links ==
The Dreadnought Project – Archibald Barr

Christine de Veyrac (born 6 November 1959 in Toulouse) is a French politician who served as a Member of the European Parliament from 1999 until 2014. She is a member of the Union for a Popular Movement, which is part of the European People's Party.
In parliament, De Veyrac served on the Committee on Transport and Tourism. She was also a substitute for the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, a member of the Delegation for relations with the Palestinian Legislative Council and a substitute for the Delegation for relations with Israel.
She used to be the parliamentary attaché of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing.


== Career ==
Master's degree in international public law (Toulouse, 1983)
National Secretary of the UMP (since 2003)
Deputy Mayor of Toulouse with responsibility for international and European relations (since 2001)
Member of the bureau of the Greater Toulouse Urban Area Community Council
Secretary of the Town Planning and Aviation and Space Development Committee,
Member of the European Parliament (from 1999)


== External links ==

European Parliament biography
Declaration of financial interests (in French; PDF file)

Normalsi is a Polish rock band from Łódź formed in 1999 by a group of friends. Their music can be described as a blend of classical rock and grunge with poetic lyrics touching upon existential problems.


== Name ==
The name comes from the title of David Gilbert's novel The Normals (Polish Normalsi) that tells a story of a young university graduate, Billy Schine, who decides to take part in an experimental testing of a new anti-psychotic drug in order to earn some money needed to pay his student loan. Gilbert shows the change in the behaviour of the normal, that is, the physically healthy, mentally stable, sober people, who, under the influences of the drug and constant testing, become everything but normal.


== History ==


=== The early days ===
The founders of the band, namely, Piotr Pachulski and Adam Marszałkowski, made their first musical steps in Colorado Band. The music of that band oscillated between rock, country and blues. Soon, however, Pachulski and Marszałkowski decided to leave the group and create a new project closer to their musical inclinations. As a result, in 1999 Normalsi came into being. Shortly afterwards, the band became an essential part of the rock underground in Łódź.


=== Soliloquium (2005) ===
After a series of difficulties with the publisher, six years after the establishment of the band, Normalsi finally released their first album entitled Soliloquium. The whole album is an internal monologue of an artist – a musician at the edge of sanity, who is unable to find himself in the world where people are numb and indifferent. It is a story of a lonely man who tries to preserve his sanity while being entangled in the web of contradictory feelings. When everything fails, the music seems to be the only antidote to his madness.


=== Dekalog, czyli piekło muzykantów (2006) ===
A year after the release of the band’s debut, Soliloquium, Normalsi prepared the second album entitled Dekalog, czyli piekło muzykantów. This time it is a concept album based on the Decalogue, in which each song is an interpretation of one of the Ten Commandments. The album can be seen as a continuation of the themes taken up in Soliloquium at both lyrical and musical level. Not only does it present direct and intimate conversations with God but some songs also feature stories of such biblical characters as Pontius Pilate, Judas, Matthew the Evangelist, or Cain and Abel. In Dekalog… Normalsi do not instruct how to live and deal with everyday problems –  they only ask questions which the listeners have to answer themselves.


=== Pokój z widokiem na wojnę (2009) ===
The third album of the band, entitled Pokój z widokiem na wojnę, by similarity to their two previous albums, proves that Normalsi consciously decided not to change their musical style. Despite the lack of musical surprises, the album is not repetitive or monotonous. Once again the listeners are challenged by the band that does not allow them to stay indifferent  and forces them to take their stand on the messages conveyed in the songs.


== Members ==
Current members

Piotr "Chypis" Pachulski –  lead vocalist, guitar, lyrics (1999–present)
Przemysław Wyrwas (2012 - present)
Former members

Adam "Marszałek" Marszałkowski - drums (1999–2008)
Mirek "Koniu" Mazurczyk –  guitar  (1999–2017)
Grzegorz Szelewa – perkusja (2012-2016)
Marcin "Rittus" Ritter – bass  (1999–2008)
Krzysztof Szewczyk – drums (2008–2012, died 2015)
Michał Usdrowski – perkusja (od 2016 do 2021)


== Discography ==
Studio albums

Niewydana płyta
Soliloquium (2005)
Dekalog, czyli piekło muzykantów (2006)
Pokój z widokiem na wojnę (2009)
Wiry (2020)


== References ==


== External links ==

Myspace
Facebook

Wahei Tatematsu (立松 和平, Tatematsu Wahei; December 15, 1947 – February 8, 2010) was a Japanese novelist. He wrote several novels including Enrai and Dogen-Zenji, about the devout Buddhist who founded the Soto Sect of Zen Buddhism in 1227.
He was also known for his environmental work. In 1995 he founded the Ashio Green Growing Association, a non-profit organization that helps plant trees at the abandoned Ashio Copper Mine.


== Selected works in English ==
Distant Thunder (Enrai, 遠雷), Charles E. Tuttle (1999).  Translated by Lawrence J. Howell and Hikaru Morimoto
Frozen Dreams: Based on a True Story (Hidaka, 日高), Peter Owen (2012).  Translated by Philip Gabriel.


== References ==


== External links ==
Synopsis of Frozen Dreams (Hidaka) at JLPP (Japanese Literature Publishing Project) (in English)

Saw Pyei Chantha (Burmese: စောပြည့်ချမ်းသာ [sɔ́ bjḛ tɕʰáɴðà]), also spelled Shwe Bye Kyantha (Burmese: ရွှေပြည့်ချမ်းသာ), was the chief queen consort of Arakan for a few months in 1408. After she and her first husband King Anawrahta of Launggyet were captured by the Hanthawaddy forces in 1408, she became a junior queen consort of King Razadarit of Hanthawaddy.


== Brief ==
The future queen was the second child of Prince Minkhaung of Pyinzi and his first wife Shin Mi-Nauk. His father was a son of then King Swa Saw Ke of Ava while his mother was a daughter of Sawbwa (Chief) Tho Ngan Bwa of Mohnyin. Minkhaung and Mi-Nauk had been wedded in a marriage of state in 1389/90 during a brief respite of hostilities between Ava and Mohnyin.
She had an elder brother Minye Kyawswa, and two younger brothers Minye Thihathu and Minye Kyawhtin. They siblings grew up in Pyinzi, 60 km south of the capital Ava (Inwa), until 1400. On 25 November 1400, their father ascended the Ava throne, and the family moved to Ava.
Circa January 1408, her father sent her to marry Anawrahta, the vassal king of the western kingdom of Arakan, whom her father had appointed a year earlier. But her reign as the chief queen was short. King Razadarit of Hanthawaddy, who had been concerned about Ava's growing empire, ordered an invasion of Arakan while Ava was entangled with the Shan state of Hsenwi in the north. The Hanthawaddy army took Launggyet in March 1408. Razadarit had Anawrahta executed, and raised Saw Pyei Chantha, as one of his junior queens.
The brazen act greatly incensed her father, and led to the renewed war between the two kingdoms for the next decade. The queen joined her paternal aunt Thupaba Dewi, who had been given to Razadarit in a marriage of state as part of the truce of 1403, in the Hanthawaddy king's harem. Three months later, her 34-year-old mother Mi-Nauk became Razadarit's queen as well after Mi-Nauk was captured by the Hanthawaddy forces during Minkhaung's ill-advised invasion of the south in the rainy season of 1408.


== Ancestry ==


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Harvey, G. E. (1925). History of Burma: From the Earliest Times to 10 March 1824. London: Frank Cass & Co. Ltd.
Kala, U (1724). Maha Yazawin (in Burmese). Vol. 1–3 (2006, 4th printing ed.). Yangon: Ya-Pyei Publishing.
Maha Sithu (2012) [1798]. Kyaw Win; Thein Hlaing (eds.). Yazawin Thit (in Burmese). Vol. 1–3 (2nd ed.). Yangon: Ya-Pyei Publishing.
Pan Hla, Nai (1968). Razadarit Ayedawbon (in Burmese) (8th printing, 2005 ed.). Yangon: Armanthit Sarpay.
Royal Historical Commission of Burma (1832). Hmannan Yazawin (in Burmese). Vol. 1–3 (2003 ed.). Yangon: Ministry of Information, Myanmar.
Sandamala Linkara, Ashin (1931). Rakhine Razawin Thit (in Burmese). Vol. 1–2 (1997–1999 ed.). Yangon: Tetlan Sarpay.
Than Tun (December 1959). "History of Burma: A.D. 1300–1400". Journal of Burma Research Society. XLII (II).

Kryachkov Novosibirsk State University of Architecture, Design and Arts (Russian: Новосибирский государственный университет архитектуры, дизайна и искусств имени А. Д. Крячкова) is a state university in Tsentralny District, Novosibirsk, Russia. It was founded in 1989.


== History ==
In 1987–1989, the Novosibirsk Architectural Institute was founded on the basis of the Faculty of Architecture of the Novosibirsk State University of Architecture and Civil Engineering.
In 1996, the institute was renamed the Novosibirsk State Academy of Architecture and Art.
In 2015, the academy was renamed the Novosibirsk State University of Architecture, Design and Arts (NSUADA).
By Order No. 1075 of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of the Russian Federation dated October 14, 2019, the University was named after Andrey Kryachkov 


== References ==

Richard Crasta (Konkani: रीचर्ड क्रास्ता (Devanagari)) is an Indian American writer and novelist.
He grew up in Mangalore, lived in the United States for twenty years, mostly in the New York metropolitan area, and now spends much of his time in Asia. His works include the comic and frankly sexual coming of age novel, The Revised Kama Sutra (published in seven languages and ten countries to date), and fiction and nonfiction books such as Impressing the Whites: The New International Slavery; Beauty Queens, Children and the Death of Sex; the semi-fictional What We All Need; and The Killing of an Author.


== Early life and education ==

Richard Crasta, son of the late John Baptist Crasta and Christine Crasta (née D'Souza), was born in Bangalore, India. He had two brothers and a sister. His father John, son of Alex and Nathalia Crasta, originally hailed from Kinnigoli in South Canara district, about 20 miles from Mangalore. John was a World War II veteran and prisoner-of-war who survived a Japanese prison camp, and his war memoir was published by his son under the title, "Eaten by the Japanese: The Memoir of an Unknown Indian Prisoner of War."
Richard had a strict middle-class Catholic upbringing and grew up in Mangalore in the 1960s and early 1970s. He began writing when he was ten.
An important factor in his development was the church and the convent school to which he was sent as a boy, and the secondary school of his adolescence.
He completed his Bachelor of Arts (BA) in Economics, History and Political Science from the University of Mysore in 1972. He was eventually accepted into the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), through which he became the Assistant Commissioner and Sub-Divisional Magistrate of Chickballapur Subdivision in Kolar district and Belgaum Subdivision in Belgaum district.
Later, he became Special Deputy Commissioner of Shimoga district. He later served in the IAS for four years. Crasta traveled to the United States in 1979, enrolling in the American University in Washington, D.C.
He worked for a New York literary agency and taught English at a New York college through 1981, and completed his Master of Arts (MA) degree in Literature and Communication. He received his Master of Fine Arts (MFA) degree in Creative Writing from Columbia University in 1987.


== Career ==
Crasta began his novel The Revised Kamasutra: A Novel of Colonialism and Desire while taking courses at Columbia University. After more than eight years of work, The Revised Kamasutra appeared in India in 1993. Subsequent editions appeared in Britain, the United States, Germany, Italy, and a few other countries.
A collection of humorous, political, personal, and satirical essays titled Beauty Queens, Children and the Death of Sex, appeared in India in 1997. Crasta edited and contributed to essays Eaten by the Japanese: The Memoirs of an Unknown Indian Soldier, by John Baptist Crasta, his father, in India in 1998. In the 1998 U.S. edition, and in one or two European translations of his novel, he used the
name Avatar Prabhu, reverting to Richard Crasta in 2000.
In 2000, he published Impressing the Whites. Five years later, he published two other books, What We All Need, entirely his own, and Fathers, Rebels and Dreamers, compiled with two of his Mangalorean friends Arunachalam Kumar, conservationist, and Ralph Nazareth, poet and professor. In 2008, he published The Killing of an Author, a literary and publishing autobiography and critique of the publishing industry.


== Philosophical views ==
Ideologically, Crasta describes himself as "a profound, all-round sceptic whose religion is literature, laughter, and love".


== Works ==
Charity, forgiveness, redemption – all these have stayed with me though I'm no church-goer. I like this essence of Christianity that is not there in George Bush.

The Revised Kamasutra: A Novel of Colonialism and Desire (1993)
Beauty Queens, Children and the Death of Sex (1997)
Impressing the Whites: The New International Slavery (2000)
One little Indian (2003)
What We All Need: An Anti-Terrorist Book of Incompletions, Unsafe Love, and Writing While Brown (2005)
Fathers, Rebels and Dreamers (editor and co-author, along with Ralph Nazareth and Arunachalam Kumar) (2005)
The Killing of an Author: Jackie Kennedy, Sonny Pfizer, Seven Little Ayatollahs and a Suicide Pact (2008)
I Will NOT Go the F**k to Sleep (2011)


== Footnotes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Richard Crasta's Official Website

The Leroy Anderson House is a historic house at 33 Grassy Hill Road in Woodbury, Connecticut.  It is a Mid-Century Modern house, built in 1953 for the noted American composer Leroy Anderson and his wife Eleanor.  It is now owned by the Leroy Anderson Foundation, and is occasionally opened to the public for tours.  It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2012.


== Description and history ==
The Anderson House is located in a rural setting, on 27 acres (11 ha) of land west of Woodbury's village center.  It is set on the south side of Grassy Hill Road, just west of its crossing of Good Hill Brook.  The property includes a network of walking trails.  The house is one story in height, built out of stone and wood, with expansive use of glass.  The interior of the house retains some of the Anderson's furnishings, including Leroy Anderon's grand piano.
The house was built in 1953 to a design by Joseph Stein, an architect based in Waterbury.  The Andersons had first summered in Woodbury, where Eleanor Anderson grew up, in 1946, where Anderson wrote one of his most famous works, Sleigh Ride, during a summer heat wave.  They settled in the town in 1948, and built this house five years later.  It was here that they raised four children, and where Anderson composed some of his best-known works.  The property has been managed since Anderson's death by a foundation established to propagate his legacy.


== See also ==
National Register of Historic Places listings in Litchfield County, Connecticut


== References ==

This article describes the geology of the ceremonial county of Merseyside which includes the City of Liverpool and the modern metropolitan boroughs of Knowsley, Sefton and St Helens which prior to 1974 were part of the historic county of Lancashire and the Metropolitan Borough of Wirral which was until then part of the historic county of Cheshire.
The geology of Merseyside in northwest England largely consists of a faulted sequence of Carboniferous Coal Measures rocks overlain in the west by younger Triassic and Permian age sandstones and mudstones. Glaciation during the present Quaternary Period has left widespread glacial till as well as erosional landforms. Other post-glacial superficial deposits such as river and estuarine alluvium, peat and blown sand are abundant.


== Carboniferous ==
Carboniferous rocks underlie all of Merseyside but are only exposed to the east of the north-south Boundary Fault.  The sequence encountered locally comprises (in descending order, youngest at top):

Warwickshire Group (formerly the 'Barren' or 'Red Measures')
Pennine Coal Measures Group (sometimes formerly the 'Productive' or 'Grey Coal Measures')
Pennine Middle Coal Measures Formation
Pennine Lower Coal Measures Formation
Millstone Grit Group
The oldest rocks to appear at or near the surface within the county are from the Namurian Epoch. These are alternate units of sandstone ('flags' and 'grits') and mudstone with occasional coal seams (known locally as 'mines') forming a part of the Millstone Grit Group. They are brought to the surface on the eastern side of the Upholland Fault and dip eastwards beneath Billinge Hill.  The full Namurian sequence hereabouts is:

Gastrioceras subcrenatum marine band
mudstone
Six Inch Mine (coal seam)
mudstone
Sand Rock Mine (coal seam)
mudstone
Rough Rock
mudstone
Upper Haslingden Flags
mudstone
Lower Haslingden Flags
mudstone
Holcombe Brook Mine (coal seam)
mudstone
Holcombe Brook Grit
mudstone
Brooksbottom Grit
mudstone
Overlying the Millstone Grit sequence is the thick Westphalian sequence of sandstones, mudstones and coal seams collectively referred to as the Pennine Coal Measures Group and which forms the Lancashire Coalfield, the western part of which extends into Merseyside. The youngest Carboniferous strata in the area are the non-productive (of coal) reddened beds of the Warwickshire Group.


== Permian ==
The rocks of the Manchester Marls and Collyhurst Sandstone formations, which are ascribed to the Middle Permian Appleby and ?Upper Permian Cumbrian Coast groups respectively, have been detected at depth through exploratory boring but are not exposed at the surface.


== Triassic ==
A pile up to several hundred metres thick of Triassic sandstones, mudstones and siltstones underlies Wirral, Liverpool and the coastal plains to the north. The following sequence is encountered within Merseyside:

Mercia Mudstone Group
Sidmouth Mudstone Formation (formerly 'Keuper Marl')
Tarporley Siltstone Formation (formerly 'Keuper Waterstones')
Sherwood Sandstone Group
Helsby Sandstone Formation (formerly 'Keuper Sandstone')
Frodsham Member
Delamere Member
Wilmslow Sandstone Formation (formerly 'Upper Mottled Sandstone')
Thurstaston Sandstone Member
Chester Pebble Beds Formation (formerly 'Pebble Beds')
Kinnerton Sandstone Formation (formerly 'Lower Mottled Sandstone')
The Mercia Mudstone Group together with the Helsby Sandstone Formation are ascribed to the Middle Triassic (Anisian) whilst the lower part of the sequence shown above is ascribed to the Early Triassic.
The relatively hard-wearing Helsby Sandstone forms many of the more prominent hills in the area such as Irby Hill, Storeton Hill and Bidston Hill on Wirral and also the tidal island of Hilbre Island in the Dee Estuary. Quarries opened up in the Chester Pebble Beds and Helsby Sandstone formations have provided building stones as used in Liverpool Anglican Cathedral and Lime Street station for example. The quarry at Storeton Hill has been active since Roman times; some of this rock was used more recently as cladding for the Empire State Building in New York. The quarry has also yielded fossils such as the footprints of the Triassic reptilian Chirotherium.
The Thurstaston Sandstone Member of the Wilmslow Sandstone Formation outcrops at Caldy Hill, Thurstaston Hill and nearby Heswall Dales.


== Structure ==
The sequence of both Carboniferous and Triassic rocks is criss-crossed by geological faults generally oriented north–south of NNW-SSE. The most significant is the north–south oriented Boundary Fault which runs west of Widnes, St Helens and Skelmersdale and marks the western edge of the Carboniferous Coal Measures outcrop. A local high in the Palaeozoic basement running WSW-ENE through Merseyside separates the East Irish Sea Basin from the Cheshire Basin to the southeast.
The Triassic rocks of Wirral are affected by the Caldy, Grange, Thurstaston, Frankby, Greasby, Woodchurch, Seacombe, Barnston and Neston faults.
From Eccleston southwards, the roughly north–south aligned Eccleston West and Eccleston East faults define a graben in which Triassic rocks are exposed at the surface whereas to east and west are Coal Measures. Elsewhere in the St Helens area, the coalfield is broken by the generally NNW-SSE aligned Roaring Meg, Derbyshire Hill and Twenty Acre faults.


== Quaternary ==


=== Glacial legacy ===
During the last ice age the area was over-ridden by the Irish Sea ice sheet moving south and southeastwards resulting in the development of iceways such as the channel now occupied by the Mersey between Liverpool and Wirral. Glacial meltwater cut tunnel valleys through the bedrock, the majority of which were subsequently filled by later deposits. Glacial till is smeared across much of the area. After the ice sheets had melted away from the Irish Sea but before vegetation had taken hold and before the sea reflooded that basin, blowing sand drifted across Merseyside to form what is now known as the Shirdley Hill Sand, a sheetlike deposit up to 2.5m thick in places. The presence of this sand was responsible for the establishment of the glassmaking industry in St Helens though the raw materials are now sourced in Cheshire.


=== Post-glacial sediments ===
Subsequently, coastal and estuarine sands, silts and muds have been deposited widely throughout the Mersey and Dee estuaries whilst alluvium fills the floor of other river and stream valleys. Considerable areas of recent blown sand cover the coastal zone around Southport and southwards to Formby and peat has developed across lower ground as at Holland Moss and Sefton Meadows inland of Southport and Formby.


== See also ==
Geology of the United Kingdom
Geology of England


== References ==

Salt Creek is a small settlement in South Australia, located along the Coorong, and is also the location of the Coorong National Park Information Centre.


== History ==
The following brief history of Salt Creek was compiled by the South Australian historian Geoffrey Manning:... There is another Salt Creek, 61 km South-East of Meningie and, 'early in 1866, Mr John Hodgkiss and others formed a small company with a capital of £500 to test the value of a supposed discovery of petroleum made near the notorious Malacha Martin’s house on the Salt Creek, by Mr W.H. Hamilton': Four men were sent out with 500 feet of boring rods and the oily substance which he had described as scum upon the surface of the water was traceable in various parts of the creek. Extensive claims were taken out and a company was formed to work a substance known as mineral caoutchouc and Mr Eustace R. Mitford was dispatched there. 
Boundaries for the locality were created on 24 August 2000 for the " long established name" which is ultimately derived from a stream that flows through the locality on its way to the Coorong.


== Oil rig monument ==
In 1892, a group of entrepreneurs, who believed there was oil located in the Coorong, drilled Australia's first oil well, based on the discovery of an elastic substance which was dubbed coorongite. They were unsuccessful, as it was later discovered that the "oil" was in fact a flammable, compacted vegetable substance, derived from algae. A replica of the oil rig has been built as a monument to this enterprise.


== People from Salt Creek ==
In 2017 the authorities discovered two young women who were kidnapped by a Salt Creek local by the name of Roman Heinze. Both girls were from overseas one was Brazilian and one was German. They were kept as sex slaves and they managed to escape and alert authorities.


== References in literature ==
The novel Salt Creek by Lucy Treloar is set in the Coorong at Salt Creek in the 1850s and 1860s. It includes references to the Travellers' Rest Inn, to William and Catherine Robinson, the proprietors, and to Malachi Martin, and the real life murders committed by Martin.


== Governance ==
Salt Creek is located within the federal division of Barker, the state electoral district of MacKillop and the local government area of the Coorong District Council.


== References ==

The Lepki people, also known as Bridal, are an ethnic group that mainly lives on the banks of the Sobger River in Bintang Mountain Regency, Highland Papua.


== Etymology ==
The name "Lepki" is an exonym given to this ethnic group by the Ketengban people. In the Ketengban language, it means "people who live in the lowlands" since they reside along the banks of the Sobger River. Meanwhile, the Lepki people refer to themselves as "Bridal," which is a combination of Bri, meaning "lowlands," and dame, meaning "our language."
The Sobger River is called Armasi in the Yetfa and Lepki, meaning "a river that flows far to the north." The river flows from the Okmay region (Ketengban's territory) to the Mamberamo River. Because they live near the Armasi River, the Lepki people also refer to themselves as the "Armasi people."


== Language ==
According to local legend, Ait Aba Kibitrum (the Supreme Creator) gave the Lepki people the language for communication called the Rani language. Linguists initially did not classify this language, but it was eventually grouped into the Southern Pauwasi language family along with Yetfa-Biksi, Kimki, Kembra, and Murkim.
In the pronunciation of the Rani language, there are two dialects/accents divided between two regions. The first region comprises Luban, Wei, and Yuaban, while the second comprises Aboy, Murme, and Teiraplu. The dialect of the first region predominantly uses the letter [R], whereas the second region predominantly uses the letter [L]. The Lepki people have a distinctive greeting, expressed with the phrase Yelako.


== Clans ==
The clan names of the Lepki people include: Belbora, Bera, Borgertora, Bukdamtora, Dalidam, Dalitora, Deira, Digiseira, Diyapra, Kedapra, Kremtestora, Kromtisra, Kuatnyera, Kwelkwapra, Lora, Lukaipra, Mapkertora, Nukaipra, Nyanyera, Tefra, Timisnyera, Toborgertora, Tuapra, Widibera, and Winma. Most Lepki clan names end with -ra, as ra means 'people'. This naming pattern can also be found among some neighboring tribes of the Lepki, such as the Sumatra and Udamesra clans of the Kosare people, as well as clans from the Kembra people.


== Customary land ==
Melkior N.N. Sitokdana & Nukaipra (2018), in their book, Culture and History of the Lepki Tribe, explain that the Lepki people are located in the northern part of Bintang Mountain Regency. The area inhabited by this tribe is part of the Okmekmin (La Pago) customary land and is bordered by four tribes: Yetfa, Kimki, Ketengban, and Kosadle/Kosare. This area is relatively small compared to the surrounding tribes, covering only about 400 km². 
Initially, the Lepki people did not live in villages but in small settlements within clan territories. The settlements were based on nearness to natural resources such as sago. Clan territories were usually named after hills, rivers, and other natural resources, such as Askei, Iorger, Itarger, Yalembri, Dali, and Raskilo. After villages were established, such as Teiraplu, which was built near an airstrip, these settlements became centers of trade and communication. However, most of the Lepki people still reside in their clan territories.
The villages built within the Lepki customary territory include:

Teiraplu, located along the Dakerto River
Yuaban, located along the Yua River
Luban, located along the Lau River
Aboy, located along the Kelnje/Ngeme River


== Traditional house ==
Lepki's traditional house is called Tinmin and is often referred to in Indonesian as rumah payung ("umbrella house") because of its umbrella-like shaped roof. These houses are typically built using large tree trunks, which are combined to form the building. Tinmin also resembles a stilt house, although it has no walls. According to local beliefs, walls make it difficult to see incoming enemy attacks. The ground floor can be used for livestock, while the umbrella-shaped roof is made from dried sago leaves.
A single Tinmin can accommodate around 30 people, with each family having its own fireplace for about 7 to 12 in total. Women and children sleep at one edge of the house, while men sleep at the other edge. A dancing floor is usually built lower and is flexible and tied with rattan ropes so it can move horizontally.
In addition to Tinmin, the Lepki people also build two other types of houses:

Yumin house. A house that is similar to Tinmin but smaller and without an umbrella-like roof.
Ketengban-style house. It resembles honai houses, especially in village areas.


== Traditional clothes ==
The traditional attire of Lepki men consists of a small ball-shaped genital cover, not a koteka. This is called nega and is made from small fruits that are drilled and then dried in hot ash. The nega is not tied but simply placed on top of the penis. Today, although most Lepki men wear pants, some still wear nega underneath their pants. The traditional attire for Lepki women consists of grass or reed skirts called net. They grow their reeds, which are then cut and tied in layers onto a string.
Other accessories include body paint in colors such as yellow, black, gray, and white from earth, as well as red from earth and tree bark. Body piercings on the ears and nose are made from animal bones, especially wild boar tusks, which are worn on the nose during war. Additionally, they wear necklaces made of shell rings called kipfan in Lepki or telaga in Yetfa. The Lepki people have also begun tattooing their bodies, a new tradition originating from the east, usually done with needles and battery contents.


== References ==

Kelly Kelly is an American television sitcom created by David Kendall, starring Shelley Long and Robert Hays, that aired on The WB from April 20 to June 7, 1998.


== Plot ==
Kelly Novak is an Ivy League English literature professor who meets widowed fire chief Doug Kelly. The two get married and she becomes Kelly Kelly. They live together in his Secaucus, New Jersey, house with his three sons and one daughter.


== Cast ==
Shelley Long as English professor Kelly Novak.
Robert Hays as widowed firefighter Doug Kelly.
Ashley Johnson as 15-year-old daughter Maureen Kelly.
Will Estes as 20-year-old son Sean Kelly.
Bug Hall as middle son Brian Kelly.
Gemini Barnett as 6-year-old son Casey Kelly.


== Production ==
Columbia TriStar Television had originally developed the series, and produced a pilot, before handing over production of the show to Warner Bros. Television. During filming of the first episode, Shelley Long broke a finger while catching a football.


== Episodes ==
After airing two episodes to low ratings, The WB moved the series from Mondays to Sundays. Seven episodes are registered with the United States Copyright Office.


== Reception ==
Howard Rosenberg of the Los Angeles Times called the series "routine sitcomdom" with "some occasional bright dialogue". John Carman of the San Francisco Chronicle was also unimpressed, and thought the show was "almost an exact copy of It Had to Be You", which lasted a month. Matthew Gilbert of The Boston Globe said the series was "neither horrible nor promising, just kind of generic and bland". David Bianculli of the Daily News rated the series one and a half stars, and called the scripts "painfully predictable and not even sporadically amusing". Kevin D. Thompson of The Palm Beach Post also rated the series one and a half stars saying that the show is "a bland family comedy we've seen too many times before". Elaine Liner of the Boston Herald gave the series no stars, as well as grading it "an F as a two-alarm failure".


== References ==


== External links ==
Kelly Kelly at IMDb

Princess Changle (Chinese: 長樂公主; 621 – 28 September 643), personal name Li Lizhi (李麗質) was a princess of the Tang dynasty. She was the fifth daughter of Emperor Taizong and the eldest daughter of Empress Zhangsun.


== Biography ==
According to her epitaphs, Li Lizhi was intelligent and had a bright personality and beautiful appearance. She was especially favoured by her parents, Taizong and Empress Zhangsun. Li Lizhi was also a painter.
At the age of 8, Li Lizhi got the princess title. Li Lizhi married her cousin Zhangsun Chong, the son of Zhangsun Wuji in 633.
Emperor Taizong wanted his daughter's marriage to have a high dowry, and the chancellor Fang Xuanling suggested him that her dowry could be doubled, compared with Taizong's sister, Princess Yongjia. However, Taizong did not do that because Wei Zheng commented that this would violate Confucian ethics. Empress Zhangsun bestowed Wei Zheng for his justice.
Li Lizhi had a son, Zhangsun Yan. By 639, Emperor Taizong wanted to establish the key contributors to his reign, including Zhangsun Wuji, posts as governors to be passed to their descendants. There was much objection to this plan, including from Zhangsun Wuji, who sent Princess Changle to remonstrate to her father. Upon hearing his daughter's remonstrance, Emperor Taizong gave up the plan.


== Death ==
Li Lizhi died on 28 September 643, likely due to a genetic condition that affected many other members of her family. Taizong was very aggrieved because of her death at a young age. She was buried in Zhao Mausoleum beside her parents.


== Tomb ==
Li Lizhi's tomb is just beside Zhao Mausoleum. It was opened in 1991. In her tomb, there are murals on the walls, and pottery tomb figures.
The most famous mural in the tomb is a painting of cart and house in the cloud. The murals illustrated the technique of painting during the Tang dynasty.


== References ==

Debra Hess Norris is an American art conservator and academic administrator who is the incoming interim dean of the University of Delaware College of Arts and Sciences. She is the chair and professor of photograph conservation. She is also the Unidel Henry Francis du Pont Chair and director of the Winterthur/University of Delaware Program in Art Conservation (WUDPAC). She received her master's degree from the same program at which she teaches.


== References ==

All-4-One is the debut album by All-4-One, released on April 12, 1994. It features the Grammy-award-winning hit single, "I Swear".


== Singles ==
"So Much in Love" – 1993
"I Swear" – April 28, 1994
"Something About You" – 1994
"Breathless" – September 6, 1994
"(She's Got) Skillz" – January 24, 1995
"A Better Man" – 1995


== Track listing ==

The CD released by Atlantic Records had two versions of the song "So Much In Love". The version of "So Much in Love" that is included on the Atlantic Records version, but not on the version released by Blitzz Records, is an extended version with a runtime of 4:18.


== Personnel ==
Adapted from the All-4-One liner notes.


== Charts ==


== Certifications ==


== References ==

Ian H.S. Riseley is an Australian accountant and businessman. From 2017 to 2018, he was the president of Rotary International.


== Biography ==
Ian Riseley was the owner of an accounting firm in Australia when, in 1977, one of his clients invited him to speak at the Rotary Club of Cheltenham. He gave a talk on income taxes. He did a few other talks and became a charter member of the Rotary Club of Sandringham in 1978. He was 31.
By the end of the 1970s, an issue arose about admitting women in the organization. He was offered a leadership role to advocate in favour of women membership within the organization. In 1989, the Rotary Club of Cheltenham opened to women memberships.
His first hands-on project was the construction of a shelter for commuters (especially the seniors) waiting for the bus in Sandringham. Since the 1980s, he majorly contributed to the Rotary International's effort to eradicate polio. In 2017, only 22 cases of polio were declared worldwide.
His wife Juliet became the charter president of the Rotary Club of Hampton in 1995.
From 1999 to 2000, Ian Riseley was the governor of District 9810.
From 2017 to 2018, Ian Riseley was the president of Rotary International. This was the fifth year in 112 years of existence that the Rotary international had an Australian president.


== Publications ==
Stéphanie Wollard, From a Tin Shed to the United Nations (foreword by Ian Riseley)


== Awards ==
2002: AusAID Peacebuilder Award from the Australian government for his work in Timor-Leste
2006: Medal of the Order of Australia
2017: Recipient of the Royce Abbey Award


== References ==

Moreiradromia antillensis is a species of decapods in the family sponge crab. This species lives in the Western and central Atlantic Ocean.


== Description ==
The carapace is brownish-gray and has short hairs along its body. The tips of its claws are bright red and whitish. The crab covers itself at the dorsal region with fragments of sea squirts, seaweed, tunicates, and sponges, earning them the popular name of "hairy sponge crabs" or "decorator crabs". The crab consciously camouflaging itself from predators, the sponge crab uses their claws to carve up the tunicate or sponge as its shelter and cover.   


== Distribution ==
Ranging from the intertidal region to deeper waters (500m), they can be found from the Western Atlantic from Bermuda and North Carolina to Brazil; central Atlantic from Ascension and St. Helena Islands.


== Ecology ==
These crabs use drag powered swimming drag powered swimming to move around. They typically hide during the day, and foraging at night. They have special setae on their claws that enable easier grasp and motion. They are scavengers, and eat dead plants and animals it may come across. They also often have symbiotic, mutualistic relationships with other organisms. For instance, species like sea anemones may be capable to sting, so this provides more protection for the crabs from potential predators. Males can grow up to 20.9 mm, while juveniles are around 7.9 mm.    


== Bibliography ==
Almeida, Alexandre O., et al. "Shallow-water anomuran and brachyuran crabs (Crustacea: Decapoda) from southern Bahia, Brazil/Cangrejos anomuros y braquiuros (Crustacea: Decapoda) de aguas someras del sur de Bahia, Brasil." Latin American Journal of Aquatic Research, vol. 38, no. 3, Nov. 2010, pp. 329+. Gale Academic OneFile, link.gale.com/apps/doc/A305746417/AONE?u=mlin_b_bumml&sid=bookmark-AONE&xid=724855ef. Accessed 19 Mar. 2022.
Silva, K. C., et al. “Update on Crustaceans Known from the Amazonian Continental Shelf and Adjacent Oceanic Areas.” Crustaceana, vol. 93, no. 7, 2020, pp. 687–701., https://doi.org/10.1163/15685403-bja10062.


== References ==

"Use Your Heart" is a song by American R&B trio SWV, released on July 23, 1996, by RCA Records, as the second single from their second album, New Beginning (1996). Written and produced by Pharrell Williams and Chad Hugo, it was the first song produced by the duo (as The Neptunes) to chart on the US Billboard Hot 100. In 2024, the song gained further prominence after it was sampled by Kendrick Lamar on the track "Heart Pt. 6" from his sixth studio album, GNX.


== Production and release ==
The song was written and produced by the Neptunes duo Pharrell Williams and Chad Hugo. The track was the second single on the album New Beginning. The song was released on July 23, 1996, by RCA Records.


== Critical reception ==
Larry Flick from Billboard magazine described the song as an "sumtuous old-school soul swinger that will have listeners lost in memories of their favorite '70s moments." He added, "These sisters now have the chops to support their bid to become R&B's leading female vocal group. They kick it lovely while Pharrell Williams and Chad Hugo surround their plush harmonies with fluttering horns and even-handed funk guitar licks. Yummy stuff that belongs at the top of every urban playlist." HotNewHipHop put the song on their list of best SWV songs. Okayplayer praised the song for its mature themes, beat, and blend of the trio's voices. The track became the Neptunes' first track to chart on the Billboard Hot 100.


== Legacy ==
In 2024, American rapper Kendrick Lamar sampled the song on his track "Heart Pt. 6" from his sixth studio album GNX. In response to the sample, SWV member Lelee Lyons said that it would be "a treat" to perform with Kendrick at his Super Bowl LIX halftime show.


== Track listing ==
Maxi-single
"Use Your Heart" (LP version)
"Use Your Heart" (edit)
"Use Your Heart" (CDS version)
"Use Your Heart" feat. Grampa & Boneyman (Rappers Delight remix)
"Use Your Heart" (acapella)
"Use Your Heart" (instrumental)


== Charts ==


== Release history ==


== References ==

YAFFS (Yet Another Flash File System) is a file system designed and written by Charles Manning for the company Aleph One.
YAFFS1 was the first version of this file system and was designed for the then-current NAND chips with 512 byte page size (+ 16 byte spare (OOB; Out-Of-Band) area). Work started in 2002, and it was first released later that year. The initial work was sponsored by Toby Churchill Ltd, and Brightstar Engineering.
YAFFS is a robust log-structured file system that holds data integrity as a high priority. A secondary YAFFS goal is high performance. YAFFS will typically outperform most alternatives. It is also designed to be portable and has been used on Linux, Android, WinCE, pSOS, RTEMS, eCos, ThreadX, and various special-purpose OSes. A variant 'YAFFS/Direct' is used in situations where there is no OS, embedded OSes or bootloaders: it has the same core filesystem but simpler interfacing to both the higher and lower level code and the NAND flash hardware.
The YAFFS codebase is licensed both under the GPL and under per-product licenses available from Aleph One.
YAFFS is locked on a per-partition basis at a high level, allowing only one thread to write at any given time.


== YAFFS1 ==
There is no special procedure to initialize a YAFFS filesystem beyond simply erasing the flash memory. When a bad block is encountered, YAFFS follows the smart media scheme of marking the fifth byte of the block's spare area. Blocks marked as such remain unallocated from then on.
To write file data, YAFFS initially writes a whole page (chunk in YAFFS terminology) that describes the file metadata, such as timestamps, name, path, etc. The new file is assigned a unique object ID number; every data chunk within the file will contain this unique object ID within the spare area. YAFFS maintains a tree structure in RAM of the physical location of these chunks. When a chunk is no longer valid (the file is deleted, or parts of the file are overwritten), YAFFS marks a particular byte in the spare area of the chunk as 'dirty'. When an entire block (32 pages) is marked as dirty, YAFFS can erase the block and reclaim the space. When the filesystem's free space is low, YAFFS consolidates a group of good pages onto a new block. YAFFS then reclaims the space used by dirty pages within each of the original blocks.
When a YAFFS system mounts a NAND flash device, it must visit each block to check for valid data by scanning its spare area. With this information it then reconstitutes the memory-resident tree data structure.


== YAFFS2 ==
YAFFS2 is similar in concept to YAFFS1, and shares much of the same code; the YAFFS2 code base supports YAFFS1 data formats through backward compatibility. The main difference is that YAFFS2 needs to jump through significant hoops to meet the "write once" requirement of modern NAND flash.
YAFFS2 marks every newly written block with a sequence number that is monotonically increasing. The sequence of the chunks can be inferred from the block sequence number and the chunk offset within the block. Thereby when YAFFS2 scans the flash and detects multiple chunks that have identical ObjectIDs and ChunkNumbers, it can choose which to use by taking the greatest sequence number. For efficiency reasons YAFFS2 also introduces the concept of shrink headers. For example, when a file is resized to a smaller size, YAFFS1 will mark all of the affected chunks as dirty – YAFFS2 cannot do this due to the "write once" rule. YAFFS2 instead writes a "shrink header", which indicates that a certain number of pages before that point are invalid. This lets YAFFS2 reconstruct the final state of the filesystem when the system reboots.
YAFFS2 uses a more abstract definition of the NAND flash allowing it to be used with a wider variety of flash parts with different geometries, bad block handling rules etc.
YAFFS2 later added support for checkpointing, which bypasses normal mount scanning, allowing very fast mount times. Performance will vary, but mount times of 3 seconds for 2 GB have been reported.


== See also ==

List of file systems
JFFS
JFFS2
UBIFS
LogFS
NILFS, a New Implementation of a Log-structured File System
Open NAND Flash Interface Working Group


== References ==

http://www.yaffs.net/yaffs-history


== External links ==
Official website
Introducing YAFFS, the first NAND-specific flash file system
Unyaffs: A simple program to unpack YAFFS2 images.
yaffs2utils: Utilities to create/extract a YAFFS2 image on Linux.

In mathematics, the moduli stack of elliptic curves, denoted as 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            1
            ,
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {M}}_{1,1}}
  
 or 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            
              e
              l
              l
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {M}}_{\mathrm {ell} }}
  
, is an algebraic stack over 
  
    
      
        
          Spec
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{Spec}}(\mathbb {Z} )}
  
 classifying elliptic curves. Note that it is a special case of the moduli stack of algebraic curves 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            g
            ,
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {M}}_{g,n}}
  
. In particular its points with values in some field correspond to elliptic curves over the field, and more generally morphisms from a scheme 
  
    
      
        S
      
    
    {\displaystyle S}
  
 to it correspond to elliptic curves over 
  
    
      
        S
      
    
    {\displaystyle S}
  
. The construction of this space spans over a century because of the various generalizations of elliptic curves as the field has developed. All of these generalizations are contained in 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            1
            ,
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {M}}_{1,1}}
  
.


== Properties ==


=== Smooth Deligne-Mumford stack ===
The moduli stack of elliptic curves is a smooth separated Deligne–Mumford stack of finite type over 
  
    
      
        
          Spec
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{Spec}}(\mathbb {Z} )}
  
, but is not a scheme as elliptic curves have non-trivial automorphisms.


=== j-invariant ===
There is a proper morphism of 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            1
            ,
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {M}}_{1,1}}
  
 to the affine line, the coarse moduli space of elliptic curves, given by the j-invariant of an elliptic curve.


== Construction over the complex numbers ==
It is a classical observation that every elliptic curve over 
  
    
      
        
          C
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} }
  
 is classified by its periods. Given a basis for its integral homology 
  
    
      
        α
        ,
        β
        ∈
        
          H
          
            1
          
        
        (
        E
        ,
        
          Z
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \alpha ,\beta \in H_{1}(E,\mathbb {Z} )}
  
 and a global holomorphic differential form 
  
    
      
        ω
        ∈
        Γ
        (
        E
        ,
        
          Ω
          
            E
          
          
            1
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \omega \in \Gamma (E,\Omega _{E}^{1})}
  
 (which exists since it is smooth and the dimension of the space of such differentials is equal to the genus, 1), the integrals
  
    
      
        
          
            [
            
              
                
                  
                    ∫
                    
                      α
                    
                  
                  ω
                
                
                  
                    ∫
                    
                      β
                    
                  
                  ω
                
              
            
            ]
          
        
        =
        
          
            [
            
              
                
                  
                    ω
                    
                      1
                    
                  
                
                
                  
                    ω
                    
                      2
                    
                  
                
              
            
            ]
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{bmatrix}\int _{\alpha }\omega &\int _{\beta }\omega \end{bmatrix}}={\begin{bmatrix}\omega _{1}&\omega _{2}\end{bmatrix}}}
  
give the generators for a 
  
    
      
        
          Z
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} }
  
-lattice of rank 2 inside of 
  
    
      
        
          C
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} }
  
 pg 158. Conversely, given an integral lattice 
  
    
      
        Λ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Lambda }
  
 of rank 
  
    
      
        2
      
    
    {\displaystyle 2}
  
 inside of 
  
    
      
        
          C
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} }
  
, there is an embedding of the complex torus 
  
    
      
        
          E
          
            Λ
          
        
        =
        
          C
        
        
          /
        
        Λ
      
    
    {\displaystyle E_{\Lambda }=\mathbb {C} /\Lambda }
  
 into 
  
    
      
        
          
            P
          
          
            2
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {P} ^{2}}
  
 from the Weierstrass P function pg 165. This isomorphic correspondence 
  
    
      
        ϕ
        :
        
          C
        
        
          /
        
        Λ
        →
        E
        (
        
          C
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \phi :\mathbb {C} /\Lambda \to E(\mathbb {C} )}
  
 is given by
  
    
      
        z
        ↦
        [
        ℘
        (
        z
        ,
        Λ
        )
        ,
        
          ℘
          ′
        
        (
        z
        ,
        Λ
        )
        ,
        1
        ]
        ∈
        
          
            P
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          C
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle z\mapsto [\wp (z,\Lambda ),\wp '(z,\Lambda ),1]\in \mathbb {P} ^{2}(\mathbb {C} )}
  
and holds up to homothety of the lattice 
  
    
      
        Λ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Lambda }
  
, which is the equivalence relation
  
    
      
        z
        Λ
        ∼
        Λ
         
        
          for
        
         
        z
        ∈
        
          C
        
        ∖
        {
        0
        }
      
    
    {\displaystyle z\Lambda \sim \Lambda ~{\text{for}}~z\in \mathbb {C} \setminus \{0\}}
  
It is standard to then write the lattice in the form 
  
    
      
        
          Z
        
        ⊕
        
          Z
        
        ⋅
        τ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} \oplus \mathbb {Z} \cdot \tau }
  
 for 
  
    
      
        τ
        ∈
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \tau \in {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
, an element of the upper half-plane, since the lattice 
  
    
      
        Λ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Lambda }
  
 could be multiplied by 
  
    
      
        
          ω
          
            1
          
          
            −
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \omega _{1}^{-1}}
  
, and 
  
    
      
        τ
        ,
        −
        τ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \tau ,-\tau }
  
 both generate the same sublattice. Then, the upper half-plane gives a parameter space of all elliptic curves over 
  
    
      
        
          C
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} }
  
. There is an additional equivalence of curves given by the action of the
  
    
      
        
          
            SL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
        =
        
          {
          
            
              
                (
                
                  
                    
                      a
                    
                    
                      b
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      c
                    
                    
                      d
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            ∈
            
              
                Mat
              
              
                2
                ,
                2
              
            
            (
            
              Z
            
            )
            :
            a
            d
            −
            b
            c
            =
            1
          
          }
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{SL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )=\left\{{\begin{pmatrix}a&b\\c&d\end{pmatrix}}\in {\text{Mat}}_{2,2}(\mathbb {Z} ):ad-bc=1\right\}}
  
where an elliptic curve defined by the lattice 
  
    
      
        
          Z
        
        ⊕
        
          Z
        
        ⋅
        τ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} \oplus \mathbb {Z} \cdot \tau }
  
 is isomorphic to curves defined by the lattice 
  
    
      
        
          Z
        
        ⊕
        
          Z
        
        ⋅
        
          τ
          ′
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} \oplus \mathbb {Z} \cdot \tau '}
  
 given by the modular action
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  
                    (
                    
                      
                        
                          a
                        
                        
                          b
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          c
                        
                        
                          d
                        
                      
                    
                    )
                  
                
                ⋅
                τ
              
              
                
                =
                
                  
                    
                      a
                      τ
                      +
                      b
                    
                    
                      c
                      τ
                      +
                      d
                    
                  
                
              
            
            
              
              
                
                =
                
                  τ
                  ′
                
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}{\begin{pmatrix}a&b\\c&d\end{pmatrix}}\cdot \tau &={\frac {a\tau +b}{c\tau +d}}\\&=\tau '\end{aligned}}}
  
Then, the moduli stack of elliptic curves over 
  
    
      
        
          C
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} }
  
 is given by the stack quotient
  
    
      
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            1
            ,
            1
          
        
        ≅
        [
        
          
            SL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
        ∖
        
          
            h
          
        
        ]
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {M}}_{1,1}\cong [{\text{SL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )\backslash {\mathfrak {h}}]}
  
Note some authors construct this moduli space by instead using the action of the Modular group 
  
    
      
        
          
            PSL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
        =
        
          
            SL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
        
          /
        
        {
        ±
        I
        }
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{PSL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )={\text{SL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )/\{\pm I\}}
  
. In this case, the points in 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            1
            ,
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {M}}_{1,1}}
  
 having only trivial stabilizers are dense.

  
    
      
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \qquad }
  


=== Stacky/Orbifold points ===
Generically, the points in 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            1
            ,
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {M}}_{1,1}}
  
 are isomorphic to the classifying stack 
  
    
      
        B
        (
        
          Z
        
        
          /
        
        2
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle B(\mathbb {Z} /2)}
  
 since every elliptic curve corresponds to a double cover of 
  
    
      
        
          
            P
          
          
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {P} ^{1}}
  
, so the 
  
    
      
        
          Z
        
        
          /
        
        2
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} /2}
  
-action on the point corresponds to the involution of these two branches of the covering. There are a few special points pg 10-11 corresponding to elliptic curves with 
  
    
      
        j
      
    
    {\displaystyle j}
  
-invariant equal to 
  
    
      
        1728
      
    
    {\displaystyle 1728}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle 0}
  
 where the automorphism groups are of order 4, 6, respectively pg 170. One point in the Fundamental domain with stabilizer of order 
  
    
      
        4
      
    
    {\displaystyle 4}
  
 corresponds to 
  
    
      
        τ
        =
        i
      
    
    {\displaystyle \tau =i}
  
, and the points corresponding to the stabilizer of order 
  
    
      
        6
      
    
    {\displaystyle 6}
  
 correspond to 
  
    
      
        τ
        =
        
          e
          
            2
            π
            i
            
              /
            
            3
          
        
        ,
        
          e
          
            π
            i
            
              /
            
            3
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \tau =e^{2\pi i/3},e^{\pi i/3}}
  
pg 78.


==== Representing involutions of plane curves ====
Given a plane curve by its Weierstrass equation
  
    
      
        
          y
          
            2
          
        
        =
        
          x
          
            3
          
        
        +
        a
        x
        +
        b
      
    
    {\displaystyle y^{2}=x^{3}+ax+b}
  
and a solution 
  
    
      
        (
        t
        ,
        s
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (t,s)}
  
, generically for j-invariant 
  
    
      
        j
        ≠
        0
        ,
        1728
      
    
    {\displaystyle j\neq 0,1728}
  
, there is the 
  
    
      
        
          Z
        
        
          /
        
        2
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} /2}
  
-involution sending 
  
    
      
        (
        t
        ,
        s
        )
        ↦
        (
        t
        ,
        −
        s
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (t,s)\mapsto (t,-s)}
  
. In the special case of a curve with complex multiplication
  
    
      
        
          y
          
            2
          
        
        =
        
          x
          
            3
          
        
        +
        a
        x
      
    
    {\displaystyle y^{2}=x^{3}+ax}
  
there the 
  
    
      
        
          Z
        
        
          /
        
        4
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} /4}
  
-involution sending 
  
    
      
        (
        t
        ,
        s
        )
        ↦
        (
        −
        t
        ,
        
          
            −
            1
          
        
        ⋅
        s
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (t,s)\mapsto (-t,{\sqrt {-1}}\cdot s)}
  
. The other special case is when 
  
    
      
        a
        =
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle a=0}
  
, so a curve of the form
  
    
      
        
          y
          
            2
          
        
        =
        
          x
          
            3
          
        
        +
        b
      
    
    {\displaystyle y^{2}=x^{3}+b}
  
 there is the 
  
    
      
        
          Z
        
        
          /
        
        6
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} /6}
  
-involution sending 
  
    
      
        (
        t
        ,
        s
        )
        ↦
        (
        
          ζ
          
            3
          
        
        t
        ,
        −
        s
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (t,s)\mapsto (\zeta _{3}t,-s)}
  
 where 
  
    
      
        
          ζ
          
            3
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \zeta _{3}}
  
 is the third root of unity 
  
    
      
        
          e
          
            2
            π
            i
            
              /
            
            3
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle e^{2\pi i/3}}
  
.


=== Fundamental domain and visualization ===
There is a subset of the upper-half plane called the Fundamental domain which contains every isomorphism class of elliptic curves. It is the subset
  
    
      
        D
        =
        {
        z
        ∈
        
          
            h
          
        
        :
        
          |
        
        z
        
          |
        
        ≥
        1
        
           and 
        
        
          Re
        
        (
        z
        )
        ≤
        1
        
          /
        
        2
        }
      
    
    {\displaystyle D=\{z\in {\mathfrak {h}}:|z|\geq 1{\text{ and }}{\text{Re}}(z)\leq 1/2\}}
  
It is useful to consider this space because it helps visualize the stack 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            1
            ,
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {M}}_{1,1}}
  
. From the quotient map
  
    
      
        
          
            h
          
        
        →
        
          
            SL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
        ∖
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathfrak {h}}\to {\text{SL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )\backslash {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
the image of 
  
    
      
        D
      
    
    {\displaystyle D}
  
 is surjective and its interior is injectivepg 78. Also, the points on the boundary can be identified with their mirror image under the involution sending 
  
    
      
        
          Re
        
        (
        z
        )
        ↦
        −
        
          Re
        
        (
        z
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{Re}}(z)\mapsto -{\text{Re}}(z)}
  
, so 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            1
            ,
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {M}}_{1,1}}
  
 can be visualized as the projective curve 
  
    
      
        
          
            P
          
          
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {P} ^{1}}
  
 with a point removed at infinitypg 52.


=== Line bundles and modular functions ===
There are line bundles 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              L
            
          
          
            ⊗
            k
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {L}}^{\otimes k}}
  
 over the moduli stack 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            1
            ,
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {M}}_{1,1}}
  
 whose sections correspond to modular functions 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 on the upper-half plane 
  
    
      
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
. On 
  
    
      
        
          C
        
        ×
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} \times {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
 there are 
  
    
      
        
          
            SL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{SL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )}
  
-actions compatible with the action on 
  
    
      
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
 given by
  
    
      
        
          
            SL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
        ×
        
          
            
              C
            
            ×
            
              
                h
              
            
          
        
        →
        
          
            
              C
            
            ×
            
              
                h
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{SL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )\times {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} \times {\mathfrak {h}}}\to {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} \times {\mathfrak {h}}}}
  
The degree 
  
    
      
        k
      
    
    {\displaystyle k}
  
 action is given by
  
    
      
        
          
            (
            
              
                
                  a
                
                
                  b
                
              
              
                
                  c
                
                
                  d
                
              
            
            )
          
        
        :
        (
        z
        ,
        τ
        )
        ↦
        
          (
          
            (
            c
            τ
            +
            d
            
              )
              
                k
              
            
            z
            ,
            
              
                
                  a
                  τ
                  +
                  b
                
                
                  c
                  τ
                  +
                  d
                
              
            
          
          )
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{pmatrix}a&b\\c&d\end{pmatrix}}:(z,\tau )\mapsto \left((c\tau +d)^{k}z,{\frac {a\tau +b}{c\tau +d}}\right)}
  
hence the trivial line bundle 
  
    
      
        
          C
        
        ×
        
          
            h
          
        
        →
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} \times {\mathfrak {h}}\to {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
 with the degree 
  
    
      
        k
      
    
    {\displaystyle k}
  
 action descends to a unique line bundle denoted 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              L
            
          
          
            ⊗
            k
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {L}}^{\otimes k}}
  
. Notice the action on the factor 
  
    
      
        
          C
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} }
  
 is a representation of 
  
    
      
        
          
            SL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{SL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )}
  
 on 
  
    
      
        
          Z
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} }
  
 hence such representations can be tensored together, showing 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              L
            
          
          
            ⊗
            k
          
        
        ⊗
        
          
            
              L
            
          
          
            ⊗
            l
          
        
        ≅
        
          
            
              L
            
          
          
            ⊗
            (
            k
            +
            l
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {L}}^{\otimes k}\otimes {\mathcal {L}}^{\otimes l}\cong {\mathcal {L}}^{\otimes (k+l)}}
  
. The sections of 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              L
            
          
          
            ⊗
            k
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {L}}^{\otimes k}}
  
 are then functions  sections 
  
    
      
        f
        ∈
        Γ
        (
        
          C
        
        ×
        
          
            h
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle f\in \Gamma (\mathbb {C} \times {\mathfrak {h}})}
  
 compatible with the action of 
  
    
      
        
          
            SL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{SL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )}
  
, or equivalently, functions 
  
    
      
        f
        :
        
          
            h
          
        
        →
        
          C
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle f:{\mathfrak {h}}\to \mathbb {C} }
  
 such that
  
    
      
        f
        
          (
          
            
              
                (
                
                  
                    
                      a
                    
                    
                      b
                    
                  
                  
                    
                      c
                    
                    
                      d
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            ⋅
            τ
          
          )
        
        =
        (
        c
        τ
        +
        d
        
          )
          
            k
          
        
        f
        (
        τ
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle f\left({\begin{pmatrix}a&b\\c&d\end{pmatrix}}\cdot \tau \right)=(c\tau +d)^{k}f(\tau )}
  
 This is exactly the condition for a holomorphic function to be modular.


==== Modular forms ====
The modular forms are the modular functions which can be extended to the compactification
  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  L
                
              
              
                ⊗
                k
              
            
            ¯
          
        
        →
        
          
            
              
                M
              
              ¯
            
          
          
            1
            ,
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\overline {{\mathcal {L}}^{\otimes k}}}\to {\overline {\mathcal {M}}}_{1,1}}
  
this is because in order to compactify the stack 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            1
            ,
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {M}}_{1,1}}
  
, a point at infinity must be added, which is done through a gluing process by gluing the 
  
    
      
        q
      
    
    {\displaystyle q}
  
-disk (where a modular function has its 
  
    
      
        q
      
    
    {\displaystyle q}
  
-expansion)pgs 29-33.


=== Universal curves ===
Constructing the universal curves 
  
    
      
        
          
            E
          
        
        →
        
          
            
              M
            
          
          
            1
            ,
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {E}}\to {\mathcal {M}}_{1,1}}
  
 is a two step process: (1) construct a versal curve 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              E
            
          
          
            
              h
            
          
        
        →
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {E}}_{\mathfrak {h}}\to {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
 and then (2) show this behaves well with respect to the 
  
    
      
        
          
            SL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{SL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )}
  
-action on 
  
    
      
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
. Combining these two actions together yields the quotient stack
  
    
      
        [
        (
        
          
            SL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
        ⋉
        
          
            Z
          
          
            2
          
        
        )
        ∖
        
          C
        
        ×
        
          
            h
          
        
        ]
      
    
    {\displaystyle [({\text{SL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )\ltimes \mathbb {Z} ^{2})\backslash \mathbb {C} \times {\mathfrak {h}}]}
  


==== Versal curve ====
Every rank 2 
  
    
      
        
          Z
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} }
  
-lattice in 
  
    
      
        
          C
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} }
  
 induces a canonical 
  
    
      
        
          
            Z
          
          
            2
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} ^{2}}
  
-action on 
  
    
      
        
          C
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} }
  
. As before, since every lattice is homothetic to a lattice of the form 
  
    
      
        (
        1
        ,
        τ
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (1,\tau )}
  
 then the action 
  
    
      
        (
        m
        ,
        n
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (m,n)}
  
 sends a point 
  
    
      
        z
        ∈
        
          C
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle z\in \mathbb {C} }
  
 to
  
    
      
        (
        m
        ,
        n
        )
        ⋅
        z
        ↦
        z
        +
        m
        ⋅
        1
        +
        n
        ⋅
        τ
      
    
    {\displaystyle (m,n)\cdot z\mapsto z+m\cdot 1+n\cdot \tau }
  
Because the 
  
    
      
        τ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \tau }
  
 in 
  
    
      
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
 can vary in this action, there is an induced 
  
    
      
        
          
            Z
          
          
            2
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} ^{2}}
  
-action on 
  
    
      
        
          C
        
        ×
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {C} \times {\mathfrak {h}}}
  

  
    
      
        (
        m
        ,
        n
        )
        ⋅
        (
        z
        ,
        τ
        )
        ↦
        (
        z
        +
        m
        ⋅
        1
        +
        n
        ⋅
        τ
        ,
        τ
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (m,n)\cdot (z,\tau )\mapsto (z+m\cdot 1+n\cdot \tau ,\tau )}
  
giving the quotient space
  
    
      
        
          
            
              E
            
          
          
            
              h
            
          
        
        →
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {E}}_{\mathfrak {h}}\to {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
by projecting onto 
  
    
      
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
.


==== SL2-action on Z2 ====
There is a 
  
    
      
        
          
            SL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\text{SL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )}
  
-action on 
  
    
      
        
          
            Z
          
          
            2
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} ^{2}}
  
 which is compatible with the action on 
  
    
      
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
, meaning given a point 
  
    
      
        z
        ∈
        
          
            h
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle z\in {\mathfrak {h}}}
  
 and a 
  
    
      
        g
        ∈
        
          
            SL
          
          
            2
          
        
        (
        
          Z
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle g\in {\text{SL}}_{2}(\mathbb {Z} )}
  
, the new lattice 
  
    
      
        g
        ⋅
        z
      
    
    {\displaystyle g\cdot z}
  
 and an induced action from 
  
    
      
        
          
            Z
          
          
            2
          
        
        ⋅
        g
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} ^{2}\cdot g}
  
, which behaves as expected. This action is given by
  
    
      
        
          
            (
            
              
                
                  a
                
                
                  b
                
              
              
                
                  c
                
                
                  d
                
              
            
            )
          
        
        :
        (
        m
        ,
        n
        )
        ↦
        (
        m
        ,
        n
        )
        ⋅
        
          
            (
            
              
                
                  a
                
                
                  b
                
              
              
                
                  c
                
                
                  d
                
              
            
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{pmatrix}a&b\\c&d\end{pmatrix}}:(m,n)\mapsto (m,n)\cdot {\begin{pmatrix}a&b\\c&d\end{pmatrix}}}
  
which is matrix multiplication on the right, so
  
    
      
        (
        m
        ,
        n
        )
        ⋅
        
          
            (
            
              
                
                  a
                
                
                  b
                
              
              
                
                  c
                
                
                  d
                
              
            
            )
          
        
        =
        (
        a
        m
        +
        c
        n
        ,
        b
        m
        +
        d
        n
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (m,n)\cdot {\begin{pmatrix}a&b\\c&d\end{pmatrix}}=(am+cn,bm+dn)}
  


== See also ==
Fundamental domain
Homothety
Level structure (algebraic geometry)
Moduli of abelian varieties
Shimura variety
Modular curve
Elliptic cohomology


== References ==

Hain, Richard (2008), Lectures on Moduli Spaces of Elliptic Curves, arXiv:0812.1803, Bibcode:2008arXiv0812.1803H
Lurie, Jacob (2009), A survey of elliptic cohomology (PDF)
Olsson, Martin (2016), Algebraic spaces and stacks, Colloquium Publications, vol. 62, American Mathematical Society, ISBN 978-1470427986


== External links ==
moduli+stack+of+elliptic+curves at the nLab
"The moduli stack of elliptic curves", Stacks project

The adaptive immune system (AIS), also known as the acquired immune system or specific immune system, is a subsystem of the immune system that is composed of specialized cells, organs, and processes that eliminate pathogens specifically. The acquired immune system is one of the two main immunity strategies found in vertebrates (the other being the innate immune system).
Like the innate system, the adaptive immune system includes both humoral immunity components and cell-mediated immunity components and destroys invading pathogens. Unlike the innate immune system, which is pre-programmed to react to common broad categories of pathogen, the adaptive immune system is highly specific to each particular pathogen the body has encountered.
Adaptive immunity creates immunological memory after an initial response to a specific pathogen, and leads to an enhanced response to future encounters with that pathogen. Antibodies are a critical part of the adaptive immune system. Adaptive immunity can provide long-lasting protection, sometimes for the person's entire lifetime. For example, someone who recovers from measles is now protected against measles for their lifetime; in other cases it does not provide lifetime protection, as with chickenpox. This process of adaptive immunity is the basis of vaccination.
The cells that carry out the adaptive immune response are white blood cells known as lymphocytes. B cells and T cells, two different types of lymphocytes, carry out the main activities: antibody responses, and cell-mediated immune response. In antibody responses, B cells are activated to secrete antibodies, which are proteins also known as immunoglobulins. Antibodies travel through the bloodstream and bind to the foreign antigen causing it to inactivate, which does not allow the antigen to bind to the host. Antigens are any substances that elicit the adaptive immune response. Sometimes the adaptive system is unable to distinguish harmful from harmless foreign molecules; the effects of this may be hayfever, asthma, or any other allergy.
In adaptive immunity, pathogen-specific receptors are "acquired" during the lifetime of the organism (whereas in innate immunity pathogen-specific receptors are already encoded in the genome). This acquired response is called "adaptive" because it prepares the body's immune system for future challenges (though it can actually also be maladaptive when it results in allergies or autoimmunity).
The system is highly adaptable because of two factors. First, somatic hypermutation is a process of accelerated random genetic mutations in the antibody-coding genes, which allows antibodies with novel specificity to be created. Second, V(D)J recombination randomly selects one variable (V), one diversity (D), and one joining (J) region for genetic recombination and discards the rest, which produces a highly unique combination of antigen-receptor gene segments in each lymphocyte. This mechanism allows a small number of genetic segments to generate a vast number of different antigen receptors, which are then uniquely expressed on each individual lymphocyte. Since the gene rearrangement leads to an irreversible change in the DNA of each cell, all progeny (offspring) of that cell inherit genes that encode the same receptor specificity, including the memory B cells and memory T cells that are the keys to long-lived specific immunity.


== Naming ==

The term "adaptive" was first used by Robert Good in reference to antibody responses in frogs as a synonym for "acquired immune response" in 1964. Good acknowledged he used the terms as synonyms but explained only that he preferred to use the term "adaptive".  He might have been thinking of the then not implausible theory of antibody formation in which antibodies were plastic and could adapt themselves to the molecular shape of antigens, and/or to the concept of "adaptive enzymes" as described by Monod in bacteria, that is, enzymes whose expression could be induced by their substrates.  The phrase was used almost exclusively by Good and his students and a few other immunologists working with marginal organisms until the 1990s when it became widely used in tandem with the term "innate immunity" which became a popular subject after the discovery of the Toll receptor system in Drosophila, a previously marginal organism for the study of immunology.  The term "adaptive" as used in immunology is problematic as acquired immune responses can be both adaptive and maladaptive in the physiological sense. Indeed, both acquired and innate immune responses can be both adaptive and maladaptive in the evolutionary sense.  Most textbooks today, following the early use by Janeway, use "adaptive" almost exclusively and noting in glossaries that the term is synonymous with "acquired".
The classic sense of "acquired immunity" came to mean, since Tonegawa's discovery, "antigen-specific immunity mediated by somatic gene rearrangements that create clone-defining antigen receptors". In the last decade, the term "adaptive" has been increasingly applied to another class of immune response not so-far associated with somatic gene rearrangements.  These include expansion of natural killer (NK) cells with so-far unexplained specificity for antigens, expansion of NK cells expressing germ-line encoded receptors, and activation of other innate immune cells to an activated state that confers a short-term "immune memory". In this sense, "adaptive immunity" more closely resembles the concept of "activated state" or "heterostasis", thus returning in sense to the physiological sense of "adaptation" to environmental changes.


== Functions ==

Acquired immunity is triggered in vertebrates when a pathogen evades the innate immune system and (1) generates a threshold level of antigen and (2) generates "stranger" or "danger" signals activating dendritic cells.
The major functions of the acquired immune system include:

Recognition of specific "non-self" antigens in the presence of "self", during the process of antigen presentation.
Generation of responses that are tailored to maximally eliminate specific pathogens or pathogen-infected cells.
Development of immunological memory, in which pathogens are "remembered" through memory B cells and memory T cells.
In humans, it takes 4–7 days for the adaptive immune system to mount a significant response.


== Lymphocytes ==

T and B lymphocytes are the cells of the adaptive immune system. The human body has about 2 trillion lymphocytes, which are 20–40% of white blood cells; their total mass is about the same as the brain or liver. The peripheral bloodstream contains only 2% of all circulating lymphocytes; the other 98% move within tissues and the lymphatic system, which includes the lymph nodes and spleen. In humans, approximately 1–2% of the lymphocyte pool recirculates each hour to increase the opportunity for the cells to encounter the specific pathogen and antigen that they react to.
B cells and T cells are derived from the same multipotent hematopoietic stem cells, and look identical to one another until after they are activated. B cells play a large role in the humoral immune response, whereas T cells are intimately involved in cell-mediated immune responses. In all vertebrates except Agnatha, B cells and T cells are produced by stem cells in the bone marrow. T cell progenitors then migrate from the bone marrow to the thymus, where they develop further.
In an adult animal, the peripheral lymphoid organs contain a mixture of B and T cells in at least three stages of differentiation:

Naive B and naive T cells, which have left the bone marrow or thymus and entered the lymphatic system, but have yet to encounter their matching antigen
Effector cells that have been activated by their matching antigen, and are actively involved in eliminating a pathogen
Memory cells, the survivors of past infections


== Antigen presentation ==

Acquired immunity relies on the capacity of immune cells to distinguish between the body's own cells and unwanted invaders. The host's cells express "self" antigens. These antigens are different from those on the surface of bacteria or on the surface of virus-infected host cells ("non-self" or "foreign" antigens). The acquired immune response is triggered by recognizing foreign antigen in the cellular context of an activated dendritic cell.
With the exception of non-nucleated cells (including erythrocytes), all cells are capable of presenting antigen through the function of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) molecules. Some cells are specially equipped to present antigen, and to prime naive T cells. Dendritic cells, B-cells, and macrophages are equipped with special "co-stimulatory" ligands recognized by co-stimulatory receptors on T cells, and are termed professional antigen-presenting cells (APCs).
Several T cells subgroups can be activated by professional APCs, and each type of T cell is specially equipped to deal with each unique toxin or microbial pathogen. The type of T cell activated, and the type of response generated, depends, in part, on the context in which the APC first encountered the antigen.


=== Exogenous antigens ===

Dendritic cells engulf exogenous pathogens, such as bacteria, parasites or toxins in the tissues and then migrate, via chemotactic signals, to the T cell-enriched lymph nodes. During migration, dendritic cells undergo a process of maturation in which they lose most of their ability to engulf other pathogens, and develop an ability to communicate with T-cells.  The dendritic cell uses enzymes to chop the pathogen into smaller pieces, called antigens.  In the lymph node, the dendritic cell displays these non-self antigens on its surface by coupling them to a receptor called the major histocompatibility complex, or MHC (also known in humans as human leukocyte antigen (HLA)). This MHC-antigen complex is recognized by T-cells passing through the lymph node. Exogenous antigens are usually displayed on MHC class II molecules, which activate CD4+T helper cells.


=== Endogenous antigens ===
Endogenous antigens are produced by intracellular bacteria and viruses replicating within a host cell. The host cell uses enzymes to digest virally associated proteins and displays these pieces on its surface to T-cells by coupling them to MHC. Endogenous antigens are typically displayed on MHC class I molecules, and activate CD8+ cytotoxic T-cells. With the exception of non-nucleated cells (including erythrocytes), MHC class I is expressed by all host cells.


== T lymphocytes ==


=== CD8+ T lymphocytes and cytotoxicity ===

Cytotoxic T cells (also known as TC, cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs), or killer T cells) are a sub-group of T cells that induce the death of cells that are infected with viruses (and other pathogens), or are otherwise damaged or dysfunctional.
Naive cytotoxic T cells are activated when their T-cell receptor (TCR) strongly interacts with a peptide-bound MHC class I molecule. This affinity depends on the type and orientation of the antigen/MHC complex, and is what keeps the CTL and infected cell bound together. Once activated, the CTL undergoes a process called clonal selection, in which it gains functions and divides rapidly to produce an army of "armed" effector cells. The activated CTL then travels throughout the body searching for cells that bear that unique MHC class I + peptide.
When exposed to these infected or dysfunctional somatic cells, effector CTLs release perforin and granulysin: cytotoxins that form pores in the target cell's plasma membrane, allowing ions and water to flow into the infected cell and causing it to burst or lyse. CTLs release granzyme, a serine protease encapsulated in a granule that enters cells via pores to induce apoptosis (cell death). To limit extensive tissue damage during an infection, CTL activation is tightly controlled and in general requires a very strong MHC/antigen activation signal, or additional activation signals provided by "helper" T-cells.

On resolution of the infection, most effector cells die and phagocytes clear them away—but a few of these cells remain as memory cells. On a later encounter with the same antigen, these memory cells quickly differentiate into effector cells, dramatically shortening the time required to mount an effective response. 


=== Helper T-cells ===
 
CD4+ lymphocytes, also called "helper" T cells, are immune response mediators, and play an important role in establishing and maximizing the capabilities of the acquired immune response. These cells have no cytotoxic or phagocytic activity; and cannot kill infected cells or clear pathogens, but, in essence "manage" the immune response, by directing other cells to perform these tasks.
Helper T cells express T cell receptors (TCR) that recognize antigen bound to Class II MHC molecules. The activation of a naive helper T-cell causes it to release cytokines, which influences the activity of many cell types, including the APC (Antigen-Presenting Cell) that activated it.  Helper T-cells require a much milder activation stimulus than cytotoxic T cells. Helper T cells can provide extra signals that "help" activate cytotoxic cells.


==== Th1 and Th2: helper T cell responses ====
Classically, two types of effector CD4+ T helper cell responses can be induced by a professional APC, designated Th1 and Th2, each designed to eliminate different types of pathogens. The factors that dictate whether an infection triggers a Th1 or Th2 type response are not fully understood, but the response generated does play an important role in the clearance of different pathogens.
The Th1 response is characterized by the production of Interferon-gamma, which activates the bactericidal activities of macrophages, and induces B cells to make opsonizing (marking for phagocytosis) and complement-fixing antibodies, and leads to cell-mediated immunity. In general, Th1 responses are more effective against intracellular pathogens (viruses and bacteria that are inside host cells).
The Th2 response is characterized by the release of Interleukin 5, which induces eosinophils in the clearance of parasites. Th2 also produce Interleukin 4, which facilitates B cell isotype switching. In general, Th2 responses are more effective against extracellular bacteria, parasites including helminths and toxins. Like cytotoxic T cells, most of the CD4+ helper cells die on resolution of infection, with a few remaining as CD4+ memory cells.
Increasingly, there is strong evidence from mouse and human-based scientific studies of a broader diversity in CD4+ effector T helper cell subsets. Regulatory T (Treg) cells, have been identified as important negative regulators of adaptive immunity as they limit and suppress the immune system to control aberrant immune responses to self-antigens; an important mechanism in controlling the development of autoimmune diseases. Follicular helper T (Tfh) cells are another distinct population of effector CD4+ T cells that develop from naive T cells post-antigen activation. Tfh cells are specialized in helping B cell humoral immunity as they are uniquely capable of migrating to follicular B cells in secondary lymphoid organs and provide them positive paracrine signals to enable the generation and recall production of high-quality affinity-matured antibodies. Similar to Tregs, Tfh cells also play a role in immunological tolerance as an abnormal expansion of Tfh cell numbers can lead to unrestricted autoreactive antibody production causing severe systemic autoimmune disorders.
The relevance of CD4+ T helper cells is highlighted during an HIV infection. HIV is able to subvert the immune system by specifically attacking the CD4+ T cells, precisely the cells that could drive the clearance of the virus, but also the cells that drive immunity against all other pathogens encountered during an organism's lifetime.


=== Gamma delta T cells ===

Gamma delta T cells  (γδ T cells) possess an alternative T cell receptor (TCR) as opposed to CD4+ and CD8+ αβ T cells and share characteristics of helper T cells, cytotoxic T cells and natural killer cells. Like other 'unconventional' T cell subsets bearing invariant TCRs, such as CD1d-restricted natural killer T cells, γδ T cells exhibit characteristics that place them at the border between innate and acquired immunity. On one hand, γδ T cells may be considered a component of adaptive immunity in that they rearrange TCR genes via V(D)J recombination, which also produces junctional diversity, and develop a memory phenotype. On the other hand, however, the various subsets may also be considered part of the innate immune system where a restricted TCR or NK receptors may be used as a pattern recognition receptor. For example, according to this paradigm, large numbers of Vγ9/Vδ2 T cells respond within hours to common molecules produced by microbes, and highly restricted intraepithelial Vδ1 T cells respond to stressed epithelial cells.


== B lymphocytes and antibody production ==

B Cells are the major cells involved in the creation of antibodies that circulate in blood plasma and lymph, known as humoral immunity. Antibodies (also known as immunoglobulin, Ig), are large Y-shaped proteins used by the immune system to identify and neutralize foreign objects. In mammals, there are five types of antibody: IgA, IgD, IgE, IgG, and IgM, differing in biological properties; each has evolved to handle different kinds of antigens. Upon activation, B cells produce antibodies, each of which recognize a unique antigen, and neutralizing specific pathogens.
Antigen and antibody binding would cause five different protective mechanisms:

Agglutination: Reduces number of infectious units to be dealt with
Activation of complement: Cause inflammation and cell lysis
Opsonization: Coating antigen with antibody enhances phagocytosis
Antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity: Antibodies attached to target cell cause destruction by macrophages, eosinophils, and NK cells
Neutralization: Blocks adhesion of bacteria and viruses to mucosa
Like the T cell, B cells express a unique B cell receptor (BCR), in this case, a membrane-bound antibody molecule. All the BCR of any one clone of B cells recognizes and binds to only one particular antigen. A critical difference between B cells and T cells is how each cell "sees" an antigen. T cells recognize their cognate antigen in a processed form – as a peptide in the context of an MHC molecule, whereas B cells recognize antigens in their native form. Once a B cell encounters its cognate (or specific) antigen (and receives additional signals from a helper T cell (predominately Th2 type)), it further differentiates into an effector cell, known as a plasma cell.
Plasma cells are short-lived cells (2–3 days) that secrete antibodies. These antibodies bind to antigens, making them easier targets for phagocytes, and trigger the complement cascade. About 10% of plasma cells survive to become long-lived antigen-specific memory B cells. Already primed to produce specific antibodies, these cells can be called upon to respond quickly if the same pathogen re-infects the host, while the host experiences few, if any, symptoms.


== Alternative systems ==


=== In jawless vertebrates ===

Primitive jawless vertebrates, such as the lamprey and hagfish, have an adaptive immune system that shows 3 different cell lineages, each sharing a common origin with B cells, αβ T cells, and innate-like γΔ T cells. Instead of the classical antibodies and T cell receptors, these animals possess a large array of molecules called variable lymphocyte receptors (VLRs for short) that, like the antigen receptors of jawed vertebrates, are produced from only a small number (one or two) of genes. These molecules are believed to bind pathogenic antigens in a similar way to antibodies, and with the same degree of specificity.


=== In insects ===
For a long time it was thought that insects and other invertebrates possess only innate immune system. However, in recent years some of the basic hallmarks of adaptive immunity have been discovered in insects. Those traits are immune memory and specificity. Although the hallmarks are present the mechanisms are different from those in vertebrates.
Immune memory in insects was discovered through the phenomenon of priming. When insects are exposed to non-lethal dose or heat killed bacteria they are able to develop a memory of that infection that allows them to withstand otherwise lethal dose of the same bacteria they were exposed to before. Unlike in vertebrates, insects do not possess cells specific for adaptive immunity. Instead those mechanisms are mediated by hemocytes. Hemocytes function similarly to phagocytes and after priming they are able to more effectively recognize and engulf the pathogen. It was also shown that it is possible to transfer the memory into offspring. For example, in honeybees if the queen is infected with bacteria then the newly born workers have enhanced abilities in fighting with the same bacteria. Other experimental model based on red flour beetle also showed pathogen specific primed memory transfer into offspring from both mothers and fathers.
The most commonly accepted theory of this specificity is based on the Dscam gene. The Dscam gene, which mediates phagocytosis in some insects, contains three variable Ig domains. These domains can be alternatively spliced, producing a large number of possible isoforms. It has been shown that after exposure to different pathogens, different isoforms of Dscam are produced, and that these isoforms associate and defend against bacteria in an isoform-specific manner.
Another mechanism that supports the specificity of insect immunity is RNA interference (RNAi). RNAi is a form of antiviral immunity with high specificity. It has several different pathways that all end with the virus being unable to replicate. One of the pathways is siRNA in which long double stranded RNA is cut into pieces that serve as templates for protein complex Ago2-RISC that finds and degrades complementary RNA of the virus. MiRNA pathway in cytoplasm binds to Ago1-RISC complex and functions as a template for viral RNA degradation. Last one is piRNA where small RNA binds to the Piwi protein family and controls transposones and other mobile elements. Despite the research the exact mechanisms responsible for immune priming and specificity in insects are not well described.


=== In bacteria ===

CRISPR is a term in DNA research. It stands for clustered regularly-interspaced short palindromic repeats. These are part of the genetic code in prokaryotes: most bacteria and archaea have it. It is their defence against attack by viruses. Its structure and function was discovered in the 21st century.
CRISPR has a lot of short repeated sequences. These sequences are part of an adaptive immune system for prokaryotes. It allows them to remember and counter the bacteriophages which prey on them. They work as a kind of acquired immune system for bacteria.


== Immunological memory ==

When B cells and T cells are activated some become memory B cells and some memory T cells. Throughout the lifetime of an animal these memory cells form a database of effective B and T lymphocytes. Upon interaction with a previously encountered antigen, the appropriate memory cells are selected and activated. In this manner, the second and subsequent exposures to an antigen produce a stronger and faster immune response. This is "adaptive" in the sense that the body's immune system prepares itself for future challenges, but is "maladaptive" of course if the receptors are autoimmune. Immunological memory can be in the form of either passive short-term memory or active long-term memory.


=== Passive memory ===
Passive memory is usually short-term, lasting between a few days and several months. Newborn infants have had no prior exposure to microbes and are particularly vulnerable to infection. Several layers of passive protection are provided by the mother. In utero, maternal IgG is transported directly across the placenta, so that, at birth, human babies have high levels of antibodies, with the same range of antigen specificities as their mother. Breast milk contains antibodies (mainly IgA) that are transferred to the gut of the infant, protecting against bacterial infections, until the newborn can synthesize its own antibodies.
This is passive immunity because the fetus does not actually make any memory cells or antibodies: It only borrows them. Short-term passive immunity can also be transferred artificially from one individual to another via antibody-rich serum.


=== Active memory ===
In general, active immunity is long-term and can be acquired by infection followed by B cell and T cell activation, or artificially acquired by vaccines, in a process called immunization.


==== Immunization ====
Historically, infectious disease has been the leading cause of death in the human population. Over the last century, two important factors have been developed to combat their spread: sanitation and immunization. Immunization (commonly referred to as vaccination) is the deliberate induction of an immune response, and represents the single most effective manipulation of the immune system that scientists have developed. Immunizations are successful because they utilize the immune system's natural specificity as well as its inducibility.
The principle behind immunization is to introduce an antigen, derived from a disease-causing organism, that stimulates the immune system to develop protective immunity against that organism, but that does not itself cause the pathogenic effects of that organism. An antigen (short for antibody generator), is defined as any substance that binds to a specific antibody and elicits an adaptive immune response.
Most viral vaccines are based on live attenuated viruses, whereas many bacterial vaccines are based on acellular components of microorganisms, including harmless toxin components. Many antigens derived from acellular vaccines do not strongly induce an adaptive response, and most bacterial vaccines require the addition of adjuvants that activate the antigen-presenting cells of the innate immune system to enhance immunogenicity.


== Immunological diversity ==

Most large molecules, including virtually all proteins and many polysaccharides, can serve as antigens. The parts of an antigen that interact with an antibody molecule or a lymphocyte receptor, are called epitopes, or antigenic determinants. Most antigens contain a variety of epitopes and can stimulate the production of antibodies, specific T cell responses, or both.   A very small proportion (less than 0.01%) of the total lymphocytes are able to bind to a particular antigen, which suggests that only a few cells respond to each antigen.
For the acquired response to "remember" and eliminate a large number of pathogens the immune system must be able to distinguish between many different antigens, and the receptors that recognize antigens must be produced in a huge variety of configurations, in essence one receptor (at least) for each different pathogen that might ever be encountered. Even in the absence of antigen stimulation, a human can produce more than 1 trillion different antibody molecules. Millions of genes would be required to store the genetic information that produces these receptors, but, the entire human genome contains fewer than 25,000 genes.
Myriad receptors are produced through a process known as clonal selection.  According to the clonal selection theory, at birth, an animal randomly generates a vast diversity of lymphocytes (each bearing a unique antigen receptor) from information encoded in a small family of genes. To generate each unique antigen receptor, these genes have undergone a process called V(D)J recombination, or combinatorial diversification, in which one gene segment recombines with other gene segments to form a single unique gene. This assembly process generates the enormous diversity of receptors and antibodies, before the body ever encounters antigens, and enables the immune system to respond to an almost unlimited diversity of antigens. Throughout an animal's lifetime, lymphocytes that can react against the antigens an animal actually encounters are selected for action—directed against anything that expresses that antigen.
The innate and acquired portions of the immune system work together, not in spite of each other. The acquired arm, B, and T cells could not function without the innate system input. T cells are useless without antigen-presenting cells to activate them, and B cells are disabled without T cell help. On the other hand, the innate system would likely be overrun with pathogens without the specialized action of the adaptive immune response.


== Acquired immunity during pregnancy ==
The cornerstone of the immune system is the recognition of "self" versus "non-self". Therefore, the mechanisms that protect the human fetus (which is considered "non-self") from attack by the immune system, are particularly interesting. Although no comprehensive explanation has emerged to explain this mysterious, and often repeated, lack of rejection, two classical reasons may explain how the fetus is tolerated. The first is that the fetus occupies a portion of the body protected by a non-immunological barrier, the uterus, which the immune system does not routinely patrol. The second is that the fetus itself may promote local immunosuppression in the mother, perhaps by a process of active nutrient depletion. A more modern explanation for this induction of tolerance is that specific glycoproteins expressed in the uterus during pregnancy suppress the uterine immune response (see eu-FEDS).
During pregnancy in viviparous mammals (all mammals except Monotremes), endogenous retroviruses (ERVs) are activated and produced in high quantities during the implantation of the embryo. They are currently known to possess immunosuppressive properties, suggesting a role in protecting the embryo from its mother's immune system. Also, viral fusion proteins cause the formation of the placental syncytium to limit exchange of migratory cells between the developing embryo and the body of the mother (something an epithelium cannot do sufficiently, as certain blood cells specialize to insert themselves between adjacent epithelial cells). The immunodepressive action was the initial normal behavior of the virus, similar to HIV. The fusion proteins were a way to spread the infection to other cells by simply merging them with the infected one (HIV does this too). It is believed that the ancestors of modern viviparous mammals evolved after an infection by this virus, enabling the fetus to survive the immune system of the mother.
The human genome project found several thousand ERVs classified into 24 families.


== Immune network theory ==

A theoretical framework explaining the workings of the acquired immune system is provided by immune network theory, based on interactions between idiotypes (unique molecular features of one clonotype, i.e. the unique set of antigenic determinants of the variable portion of an antibody) and 'anti-idiotypes' (antigen receptors that react with the idiotype as if it were a foreign antigen). This theory, which builds on the existing clonal selection hypothesis and since 1974 has been developed mainly by Niels Jerne and Geoffrey W. Hoffmann, is seen as being relevant to the understanding of the HIV pathogenesis and the search for an HIV vaccine.


=== Stimulation of adaptive immunity ===
One of the most interesting developments in biomedical science during the past few decades has been elucidation of mechanisms mediating innate immunity.  One set of innate immune mechanisms is humoral, such as complement activation.  Another set comprises pattern recognition receptors such as toll-like receptors, which induce the production of interferons and other cytokines increasing resistance of cells such as monocytes to infections. Cytokines produced during innate immune responses are among the activators of adaptive immune responses. Antibodies exert additive or synergistic effects with mechanisms of innate immunity. Unstable HbS clusters Band-3, a major integral red cell protein; antibodies recognize these clusters and accelerate their removal by phagocytic cells. Clustered Band 3 proteins with attached antibodies activate complement, and complement C3 fragments are opsonins recognized by the CR1 complement receptor on phagocytic cells.
A population study has shown that the protective effect of the sickle-cell trait against falciparum malaria involves the augmentation of acquired as well as innate immune responses to the malaria parasite, illustrating the expected transition from innate to acquired immunity.
Repeated malaria infections strengthen acquired immunity and broaden its effects against parasites expressing different surface antigens.  By school age most children have developed efficacious adaptive immunity against malaria. These observations raise questions about mechanisms that favor the survival of most children in Africa while allowing some to develop potentially lethal infections.
In malaria, as in other infections, innate immune responses stimulate the adaptive immune system. The genetic analysis of innate and acquired immunity is now a flourishing discipline.
Humoral and cell-mediated immune responses limit malaria parasite multiplication, and many cytokines contribute to the pathogenesis of malaria as well as to the resolution of infections.


== Evolution ==
The acquired immune system evolved as an elaboration of the innate immune system. Lymphoid cells can be identified in some pre-vertebrate deuterostomes (i.e., sea urchins). Although not as prominently featured in the invertebrate innate immune system as the leucine-rich repeat (LRR) pattern recognition receptors, the immunoglobulin fold has also been involved in the recognition of self versus non-self since very early on in the evolution of animals, as exemplified by studies into the marine sponge.
The amphioxus is a chordate like all vertebrates. Its genome includes many building blocks of the adaptive immune system, but none of the true hallmarks such as somatic recombination. There is, however, considerable expansion in LRR genes and immunoglobulin-fold genes. There is high polymorphism among different individuals, an example of diversity in the innate immune system.


=== Jawed fish ===
The acquired immune system, which has been best-studied in mammals, originated in jawed fish approximately 500 million years ago. Most of the molecules, cells, tissues, and associated mechanisms of this system of defense are found in cartilaginous fishes. Lymphocyte receptors, Ig and TCR, are found in all jawed vertebrates.  The most ancient Ig class, IgM, is membrane-bound and then secreted upon stimulation of cartilaginous fish B cells.  Another isotype, shark IgW, is related to mammalian IgD.  TCRs, both α/β and γ/δ, are found in jawed fish (cladistically including mammals).
Most elements of the jawed fish system are in place thanks to the second round of whole-genome duplication (2R) that the jawed fish have undergone, providing an expanded repertoire of immune-related genes. The immunoprotease genes involved in antigen processing and presentation as well as the class I and class II genes, are closely linked within the MHC of almost all studied species. These systems, along with RAG, were set in place quickly after 2R had happened. The MHC region is paralogous to the Ig/TCR region. Comparing paralogous regions allow for the reconstruction of a primordial immune complex. 
The cartilaginous fish system does have one critical difference compared to the system of bony fish (including mammals): the gene segments that undergo V(D)J recombination in bony fish are not organized in huge clusters like they are in bony fish. Instead, these parts are arranged as "miniclusters" and rearrangement by RAG is largely limited within these clusters. As a result, not as many combinations are available compared to bony fish.
The RAG transposon likely invaded a "UrIg2" immunoglobin gene, which had an unsplit VJ, in an ancestor of all extant jawed fish. Splitting the V and J exons is adaptive, as it enables greater variation through changing the size of the CDR3 loop. This feature is inherited by all the descendants of UrIg2 such as Ig and TCR.


=== Jawless fish ===

The jawless fish are vertebrates like the jawed fish, but belong on a different branch. In jawless fish, three subsets of lymphocytes use variable lymphocyte receptors (VLRs) for antigen binding. The VLRs are derived from pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) of the innate immune system.  Diversity is generated by a cytosine deaminase-mediated rearrangement of LRR-based DNA segments.
The functional dichotomy between two of the lymphocyte subsets parallels Ig and TCR molecules.


== Types of acquired immunity ==
Immunity can be acquired either actively or passively. Immunity is acquired actively when a person is exposed to foreign substances and the immune system responds. Passive immunity is when antibodies are transferred from one host to another. Both actively acquired and passively acquired immunity can be obtained by natural or artificial means.

Naturally Acquired Active Immunity – when a person is naturally exposed to antigens, becomes ill, then recovers.
Naturally Acquired Passive Immunity – involves a natural transfer of antibodies from a mother to her infant. The antibodies cross the woman's placenta to the fetus. Antibodies can also be transferred through breast milk with the secretions of colostrum.
Artificially Acquired Active Immunity – is done by vaccination (introducing dead or weakened antigen to the host's cell).
Artificially Acquired Passive Immunity – This involves the introduction of antibodies rather than antigens to the human body. These antibodies are from an animal or person who is already immune to the disease.


== See also ==


== Notes and references ==
Notes

References

Taoyuan Zhongzheng Arts and Cultural Business District (Chinese: 桃園中正藝文特區) is located on the north side of Taoyuan District, Taoyuan City, Taiwan. The total area of Taoyuan Zhongzheng Arts and Cultural Business District is 15.65 hectares (38.7 acres). It was designed in the 2000s and developed from the 2010s onward, when Taoyuan City was still Taoyuan County. Taoyuan Zhongzheng Arts and Cultural Business District is one of the prime cultural and central business districts of Taoyuan City. Taoyuan's tallest buildings, such as ChungYuet Royal Landmark and ChungYuet World Center, are located within this area.


== Notable buildings ==
Taoyuan Arts Center
ChungYuet Royal Landmark (153 m (502 ft))
Taoyuan Main Public Library
ChungYuet World Center (150 m (490 ft))
ChungYuet Global Business Building (117.3 m (385 ft))


== Entertainment facilities ==
Chung Mao Plaza
Geleven Plaza
Taoyuan Main Public Library


== Transportation ==
Source:


=== Rail ===
Taoyuan Metro
Green Line (under construction): Daxing W. Rd. Intersection and Taoyuan P. Arts Center(TPAC)


=== Road ===
Taoyuan Interchange
Southern Taoyuan Interchange


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Xinyi Planning District
Xinban Special District
Qingpu Special District
List of tallest buildings in Taoyuan City
Urban planning in Taiwan


== References ==

Guevaria is a genus of South American flowering plants in the family Asteraceae.

Species
Guevaria alvaroi R.M.King & H.Rob.
Guevaria loxensis (S.F.Blake & Steyerm.) R.M.King & H.Rob.
Guevaria micranthera H.Rob.
Guevaria sodiroi (Hieron. ex Sodiro) R.M.King & H.Rob.
Guevaria vargasii (Chung) R.M.King & H.Rob.


== References ==

A seizure response dog (SRD) (also known as seizure dog) is a dog demonstrating specific assisting behaviour during or immediately after a person's epileptic seizure or other seizure. When reliably trained such dogs can serve as service dogs for people with epilepsy.


== Tasks ==
Tasks for seizure dogs may include, but are not limited to:

Find someone to help
Activate an emergency response system
Stimulate a person to help them "wake up" after a seizure
Use body weight to keep the person in a specific position
Act as a brace to help the person up
Retrieve a phone or medication
Physically remove the patient from an unsafe situation (e.g., the middle of a street)


=== Seizure alert dog ===
A dog demonstrating specific behaviour prior to a person's epileptic seizure is also referred to as seizure alert dog (SAD). Reports suggest that some dogs can be trained to anticipate epileptic seizures. However, this ability has been questioned.
Seizure response and seizure alerting behaviour may spontaneously develop  in dogs living with children and adults with epilepsy.


== See also ==

Working dog – Dog trained to perform practical tasks
Working animal – Domesticated animals for assisting people


== References ==


== External links ==
Seizure-alert dogs National Geographic News article
Canine Assistants Service Dog School - Specializing in the placement of Seizure Response dogs, and seizure scent research

The Golden Eagle Trail is a 10.1-mile (16.3 km) hiking trail in north-central Pennsylvania, forming a loop through a portion of Tiadaghton State Forest on the east side of Pine Creek Gorge. The trail also traverses Wolf Run Wild Area. Pennsylvania hiking expert Tom Thwaites stated that the Golden Eagle Trail "may be the best day hike in Penn's Woods".


== Route ==
The Golden Eagle Trail is a large loop with a short entrance trail. The entrance trail begins near Pine Creek at a parking lot off of Pennsylvania Route 414 north of the village of Cammal. The entrance trail begins climbing immediately up the side of Pine Creek Gorge, to the northeast and gently at first alongside Bonnell Run. The junction with the main loop is reached at 0.4 mile; hikers wishing to complete the loop in the clockwise direction would continue straight ahead here. The climb up Bonnell Run becomes increasingly steep and difficult with several wet crossings of the stream. The top of the plateau is reached at 3.3 miles; the trail turns to the south and passes several vistas looking to the east (away from Pine Creek Gorge). 
The first significant vista over Pine Creek Gorge is reached at 4.3 miles, just before a steep descent into the hollow formed by Wolf Run. This segment also includes several wet stream crossings. At 7.0 miles and near the bottom of the hollow, a former route of the trail continues ahead a short distance to PA Route 414, but the official route now turns to the west and begins a very steep climb up a rocky ridgeline between Wolf Run and Bonnell Run. Raven's Horn Vista, named after its use as a nesting site by ravens and vultures, is reached at 7.6 miles, followed by a similar vista a short distance later. Both vistas offer views up and down Pine Creek Gorge. The trail descends off the ridgeline steeply and passes through a former farm pasture at 8.5 miles. The junction with the entrance trail is reached at 8.7 miles; here the hiker must turn south and repeat the entrance trail. The route ends at PA 414 after 9.1 miles.


== References ==

Prewitt Ulrich Roberts (April 27, 1888 – December 13, 1964) was an American college football player and coach. Roberts served as the head football coach at William Jewell College in Liberty, Missouri in 1912, compiling a record of 5–3.


== Head coaching record ==


=== College ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Prewitt Roberts at Find a Grave

Ninko Perić (Bojić, May 14, 1886 – Belgrade, April 24, 1961) was a Serbian lawyer and politician.


== Biography ==
He finished high school in Šabac and Belgrade. He graduated from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 1910. He was elected president of the Fund for Poor Students in the same year. As a protégé of the Angelina Marić Foundation, he attended doctoral studies in the field of private law in Paris from 1910 to 1912. He was the initiator of the foundation of the Association of Yugoslav Students in Paris. Božidar Purić was elected president of the management board, and Ninko Perić was elected president of the supervisory board. According to the conditions of the Fund, the doctoral dissertation was defended at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. He then spent several months in Geneva, where he collected materials for future scientific works in libraries. During the First Balkan War, he returned to Serbia and signed up for the army as a volunteer, but was rejected for medical reasons.


== Career as a civil servant ==
After completing his studies in Geneva, he was appointed clerk of the Court of First Instance for the city of Belgrade in October 1913. At the beginning of the First World War, he joined the Serbian army as a volunteer. He was an investigator at the Military Station of the Užice Detachment and at the Valjevo Garrison. In Valjevo, he suffered typhus in 1914, under the watchful care of Dr. Avram Josif Vinaver and his wife Ruža. He was then transferred to the Šabac district command, where he served until the demobilization of the command on November 5, 1915.
He came into contact with the government of the Kingdom of Serbia in Shkodër in January 1916. Minister of Finance Momčilo Ninčić employed him in his department. For the next year and a half, he was on duty in Marseille, Geneva and Corfu. He was then appointed as a 5th class secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in October 1917, and Nikola Pašić chose him as his secretary, to accompany him on his way to Rome, Paris, London, and Evian Spa. He then appointed him as the head of the Cabinet of the President of the Council of Ministers. He was Nikola Pašić's secretary at the Paris Peace Conference.
According to his wishes, he left the diplomatic service and became a professor of private international law and civil law at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in March 1920, and in the same year he also taught at the Faculty of Law in Subotica.
He left his career as a professor after Nikola Pašić formed the first homogeneous radical government on December 16, 1922, and appointed Ninko Perić as Minister of Social Policy. The continuation of his career was inextricably linked with Nikola Pašić, King Alexander and Petar Živković, according to whose wishes he was given various functions. At the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he did not leave a deep mark, because he stayed in the positions of minister for a relatively short time. He left a slightly more visible mark as Minister of Justice. After the Marseille assassination, he remained on good terms with Bogoljub Jevtić, who offered him the position of ambassador in Bucharest in January 1935. He was appointed to that position in March of the same year and held it until mid-May 1936. Milan Stojadinović wanted to transfer him as an ambassador to Brussels in January 1936, but the Belgian government did not give his approval. Ninko Perić officially retired on June 29, 1936.

Secretary of the delegation of the Kingdom of SHS at the Peace Conference in Paris. Elected as an associate professor at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade in 1920.
Minister of Social Policy from May 4 to July 31, 1923. Minister of Finance from April 15 to December 24, 1926.
Minister of Foreign Affairs from December 24, 1926, to April 12, 1927.
Minister without portfolio from April 17 to June 16, represented the ministers of justice, education, and religion.
President of the National Assembly 1927–28.
President of the State Council 1930–31.
Ambassador in Bucharest 1935–36.


== Political career ==
Ninko Perić has been an active member of the People's Radical Party since his student days, first as a member of the radical club Slovenski jug, and then as a member of the editorial staff of the magazine "Slovenski jug", which was started by Professor Božidar Marković. In addition to Ninko Perić, the members of the editorial board were Milan Stojadinović and Veljko Popović. For the first time, he participated in the pre-election campaign in Pocer County in 1908. When Nikola Pašić approved Ninko Perić's transfer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the University of Belgrade, he ordered his father-in-law Draža Petrović to start preparing the ground for his parliamentary candidacy in the Pocer region, judging that it would be better for him to stay in politics than to dedicate himself to an academic career. For the first time, he was elected as a member of parliament in the elections for the Constituent Assembly in 1920, for the Pocer region. He was later elected in the same region in the parliamentary elections of 1923, 1925, 1927 and 1931. As a representative of the Pocer region, Ninko Perić was responsible, among other things, for strengthening the party structure in Eastern Slavonia. Relations between Ninko Perić and Nikola Pašić cooled down in 1924, due to bad relations between Perić and Radomir (Rada) Pašić. However, King Aleksandar and Petar Živković began to show more and more trust and affection towards Ninko Perić from 1925, and his career as a politician and as a civil servant continued to develop under their protection. Ninko Perić and Milan Stojadinović have been friends since their student days. Their relationship cooled down suddenly, since Perić succeeded Stojadinović as the head of the Ministry of Finance in the government of Nikola Uzunović in April 1926. His political career ended with his appointment as an ambassador in Bucharest in 1935.


== Personal life ==
Ninko Perić married Angelina (Gina) Petrović, the daughter of the prominent Šabac Radical Dragomir Draža Petrović, with whom he had three children.


== Works ==
He has published a large number of professional works.

Менична способност (1909)
Теорија злоупотребе права (1912)
Основи грађанског права - општи део (1922)
Међународно приватно право (1926)


== References ==


== Literature ==
Miletić, Aleksandar R. (2003). "From the memoirs of Ninka Perić (1886-1960)". "Currents of history". 1—2 (Institute for the Recent History of Serbia): 141–160. [https://tokovi.istorije.rs/cir/uploaded/1%202%202003/1%202%202003/2003_1-2_07_Miletic.pdf]

Šimonovice (German: Schimsdorf) is a municipality and village in Liberec District in the Liberec Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 1,500 inhabitants.


== Administrative division ==
Šimonovice consists of three municipal parts (in brackets population according to the 2021 census):

Šimonovice (219)
Minkovice (1,135)
Rašovka (60)


== History ==
The first written mention Šimonovice is from 1545.


== Demographics ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

Dar al Athar al Islamiyyah is a cultural organization operating several cultural centers in Kuwait. 
The organization has a collection of more than 20,000 items of rare Islamic art. The collection belongs to Sheikh Nasser Sabah Al-Ahmed Al-Sabah and his wife Sheikha Hussa Sabah Al-Salem Al-Sabah, who personally oversees the Kuwait National Museum. Many items, especially those from the pre-Islamic period, are housed at Amricani Cultural Centre in Kuwait.
The collection includes "books, manuscripts, ceramics, glass, metal, precious stones and jewelled objects, architectural ornaments, textiles and carpets, coins and scientific instruments." 
The Dar al Athar al Islamiyyah cultural centres include education wings, conservation labs, and research libraries.


== See also ==
List of Islamic art museums


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
The Al-Sabah Collection
Dar al Athar al Islamiyyah within Google Arts & Culture
 Media related to Google Art Project works in al Sabah Collection, Kuwait at Wikimedia Commons

Budiriro South is a constituency represented in the National Assembly of the Parliament of Zimbabwe. It was established through the 2023 delimitation report and was first contested at the 2023 general election. The current MP is Darlington Dzikamai Chigumbu of the Citizens Coalition for Change since the 2023 election.


== Members ==


== See also ==
List of Zimbabwean parliamentary constituencies


== References ==

Joaquín Domínguez Portela (born 13 April 1991), known as El Xokas, is a Spanish influencer, content creator, and Twitch streamer. He gained popularity on Twitch and YouTube. In 2022 he was the most subscribed channel on Twitch in Spain.
As of 2025 he has 2.74 million followers on YouTube, and 4,264,928 on Twitch.


== Biography ==
Xokas was born on 13 April 1991 in Lugo. His father is from A Coruña and his mother from Abadín in the province of Lugo. They own a hair salon. He studied primary school on Colegio Rosalía de Castro and then he studied ESO in Fingoi. He moved to Salamanca to study an Advertising and Marketing Bachelor Degree at Universidad Pontificia de Salamanca, and then he studied a postgrad course in audiovisual post-production in Madrid.
He is dating League of Legends streamer Zeling.


== Career ==
In 2016 he started as post-producer and video editor for Real Madrid Club de Fútbol, and at the same time he was a YouTuber, where he uploaded League of Legends videos. On 8 January 2018 he started his career on Twitch, making streams with content related with World of Warcraft, becoming in 2019 in the main content creator for this category and one of the prominent streamers in Europe.
On 27 August 2019 he ended his contract as post-productor, working on full-time on Twitch. He attended Twitch events alongside El Rubius. and he also collaborated with Ibai Llanos. On 9 January 2021 he was invited to Juego del calamar, one of the major events between streamers and YouTubers, where he became one of the most influential one. He also was invited to a Rust event. Then he attended television programms such as La Resistencia, on Movistar Plus, and The Wild Project and Charlando Tranquilamente podcasts.
In 2021 he ran EL XOKAST podcast, where he interviewed urban music singers such as Natos y Waor, Prok and SFDK. He won an ESLAND Awards for Revelation Streamer of the Year. In the same year he was implicated in a controversy by Ministry of Equality, Irene Montero.
At the beginning of 2022 he reached 1.2 million viewers during the streaming of Squid Game, Minecraft event which was the third streaming video most watched on the platform, and it is based on the Netflix series.
In February 2024 he acquired Knoweats, a business which sells prepared food, to compete against Wetaca. In February 2025 he created the WoW event named Go Again, made for Spanish players, which starts on 9 February.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Robert Maunsell may refer to:

Robert Maunsell (missionary) (1810–1894), English missionary, linguist and translator in New Zealand
Robert Mansell (1573–1656), admiral of the English Royal Navy and member of parliament
Robert Maunsell (Royal Navy officer) (1785/6–1845), Royal Navy officer, made post-captain in 1812


== See also ==
Maunsell

Vernie D. McGaha (born September 13, 1947) is an American politician and former state senator for Kentucky's south central 15th district, which includes the counties of Adair, Casey, Pulaski, and Russell.
McGaha served on these committees: (1) Agriculture and Natural Resources [Vice Chair], (2) Veterans, Military Affairs, and Public Protection, (3) Appropriations and Revenue, and (4) Education [Vice Chair]. The chairman of the Education Committee is Kenneth W. Winters, a Republican from Murray, who is also a former president of McGaha's alma mater, Campbellsville University.
On February 22, 2012, McGaha received the "Kids First Advocacy Award" from the Kentucky School Boards Association.
McGaha did not seek reelection to the Senate in 2012 and endorsed Mark Polston as his successor. However, Republican primary voters nominated Chris Girdler, who then won the seat in the November general election.


== References ==

En anglais is a studio album by popular French singer Françoise Hardy. It was originally released in United Kingdom in October 1968, on LP by Asparagus Productions/United Artists Records (ULP 1207) in mono and stereo (SULP 1207) formats.  The LP saw a French release in December 1968 by Asparagus Productions/Disques Vogue/Vogue international industries (CLD 729) in a stéréo universelle format. Jean-Marie Périer was credited for the cover photography.


== Track listing ==
Françoise Hardy is accompanied by orchestras directed by Charles Blackwell (1-2-3-11), Arthur Greenslade (4-5-7-8-9), Simon Napier-Bell (6-12) and Jean-Pierre Sabar (10).


== Editions ==


=== LP records: first editions in the English-speaking world ===
 South Africa, 1968: Françoise - The Second English Album, World Records Co (ORC 6024).
 United States, 1968: Loving, Reprise Records (RS 6318).
 Australia, 1969: Françoise Hardy in Anglais [sic], Production Asparagus/Phono Vox Records, coll. “Celebrity Series”, Vol. 2 (LPV 001).
 Canada, 1969: Loving, Reprise Records (RS 6318).
 New Zealand, 1969: Will You Love Me Tomorrow, Interfusion (SITFL 934.135).


=== Reissues ===
 Japan, 1990: CD (Jewel case), En anglais, Epic Records/Sony Records (ESCA 5191).
 United Kingdom, 2016: LP, En anglais, Parlophone/Warner Music (190295 989590).
 United Kingdom, 2016: CD (digipack), En anglais, Parlophone/Warner Music (190296 997488).


== References ==

The Société Nationale des chemins de fer du Congo (SNCC; "National Railway Company of the Congo") is the national railway company for the inland railways of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.


== History ==
The railway took over the assets of the Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer Zaïrois (SNCZ; "National Railway Company of Zaire"). Due to the civil war, the railway was not functioning from 1998 until June 29, 2004. During the war, 500 km of railway in the provinces of Maniema and Katanga were destroyed. A million dollar grant from the United States Agency for International Development's Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance is helping to pay for the section's repair. Charities often use the railway to distribute food and other supplies. Despite foreign support, SNCC was again on the brink of collapse in 2010; to prevent this, in June 2010 the World Bank gave a 255 million US dollar grant.
The Matadi-Kinshasa Railway is operated by ONATRA, under an agreement with the CNC.


== Network ==

3,641 kilometres (of which 858 kilometres electrified) in Katanga, Kasaï-Occidental, Kasaï-Oriental and Maniema.
Track gauge 1,067 mm (3 ft 6 in)  :

Kamina to Ilebo Only remaining weekly through passenger train is timetabled to take six days. Agreement signed in September 2007 for China to fund an extension to Kinshasa.
Sakania-Lubumbashi to Kindu (see: Cape to Cairo Railway)
Tenke (a siding on the Lubumbashi to Ilebo mainline) to Dilolo (Angola border at Luau, rail has connection to the Benguela Railway ending at port of Lobito on the Atlantic Ocean .)
Kabalo to Kalemie
Track gauge 1,000 mm (3 ft 3+3⁄8 in) metre gauge:

Ubundu to Kisangani (portage railway)


== See also ==
Railway Company of Benguela
Congo-Ocean Railway
Rail transport in the Democratic Republic of Congo
South African Class 32-000
Chemins de Fer des Grands Lacs
Transport in the Democratic Republic of the Congo


== References ==


== External links ==
(in French) SNCC official website

Lee Jin (Korean: 이진; born March 21, 1980) is a South Korean singer and actress. She made her entertainment debut as a member of the K-pop girl group Fin.K.L, along with Lee Hyori, Ock Joo-hyun, and Sung Yu-ri. After Fin.K.L came to an unofficial end in 2002, Lee became an actress.


== Career ==
Lee Jin joined Fin.K.L after her friend Ock Joo-hyun—the first member to be selected for the group—introduced her to the casting director selecting the group's members. She sang Eco's "Heng Bok Han Na Reul" and was immediately selected to be in the group.
In 2002, the members from the girl group started solo activities. Lee had long expressed her interest in acting, before her debut she was in MBC's Police People. Subsequently, she starred in the popular sitcom Nonstop.
In 2005, Lee joined the variety program X-Man. On the show, Lee signalled that she had grown into a "lady" from her Fin.K.L teenage days via a change in her hairstyle and clothes. In X-Man, she became known for her stiff dance steps, so she had to create new stiff dance steps for the intro dance segment in each episode. She was also known for being the show's ulzzang ("best/pretty face"), having been chosen by many of the male guests to be their partner in the couple game.
In 2010, Lee also appeared in Heroes where 12 artists competed in games to garner the popular title or will fall into the unpopular group. In this program, she showed her nice and warm-hearted personality.


== Filmography ==


=== Television dramas ===
Nonstop 3 (MBC, 2002–2003)
Banjun Drama (MBC, 2005) (with Andy of Shinhwa)
Best Theater "Accident Prone Area"  (MBC, 2006)
Her Cerebral Hemorrhage Story (MBC, 2006)
The King and I (SBS, 2007–2008)
New Wise Mother, Good Wife (MBC, 2007, cameo)
Hometown of Legends  "Returning Lady" (KBS2, 2008)
Soul (MBC, 2009)
Jejungwon (SBS, 2010)
Glory Jane (KBS2, 2011)
The Great Seer (SBS, 2012)
The Secret of Birth (SBS, 2013)
Shining Romance (MBC, 2013–2014)
Immutable Law of First Love (Naver TV Cast, 2015)


=== Film ===
Too Fragile to Be Loved  (2009)


=== Variety shows ===
Beauty Center (SBS, 2002–2003)
Declaration of Freedom! Today is Saturday – A Good Transportation Day (KBS, 2003)
Show! Power Video (KBS, 2003–2005)
X-Man (SBS, 2005)
Millionaire's Bag (ETN, 2008)
Heroes (SBS, 2010)
Camping Club (JTBC, 2019)


== Video game appearance ==
Lee is a playable character in the video game Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 2 (only in the South Korean PC version).


== Personal life ==
Lee got married in Hawaii on February 20, 2016.


== References ==


== External links ==
Lee Jin at King Kong by Starship (in Korean)
Lee Jin Fansite (in Korean)
Lee Jin at HanCinema 
Lee Jin at IMDb

The Guild of Women-Binders was a British organization founded to promote and distribute the work of women bookbinders at the turn of the 20th century. It was founded by Frank (Francis) Karslake in 1898, and disbanded in 1904. It helped sell bindings produced by women binders already practicing, and instituted training programs to teach other women. 


== History ==

Frank Karslake was a London bookseller, and a founder and financial backer of the Hampstead Bindery. At the 1897 Victorian Era Exhibition at Earl's Court, he encountered several bindings by women, including Annie S. Macdonald, on display, and his interest was piqued. Soon after, he invited several women binders to exhibit their work in his London shop; this "Exhibition of Artistic Bookbinding by Women," which ran from November 1897 to February 1898, garnered a substantial amount of interest from the public, and convinced him that promoting women's bookbindings could be a profitable venture, if perhaps partially for the novelty. Whatever his motivations, Karslake soon began acting as an agent to women binders already practicing, such as Annie MacDonald and Edith and Florence de Rheims.

By May 1898, the Guild of Women Binders was open as a business venture, headquartered at Karslake's bookstore at 61 Charing Cross Road. Karslake "saw that more money could be made by teaching to bind than by only binding and selling books. He maintained that women were well-suited to be bookbinders, due to their "inborn reverence for the beautiful" and their deftness of hand. He focused on both promoting the work of women already engaged in bookbinding, and training additional women to create bindings. Every member of the Guild received training in hand-bookbinding, and were offered employment after they completed this training. 
Members and associates of the Guild of Women Binders carved out a niche for themselves at the end of the 19th century by producing fine, artistic bindings by hand in an era when bookbinding was becoming increasingly mechanized. As part of its training efforts, the Guild set up a workshop, headed by Karslake's daughter Constance, near the Hampstead Bindery in 1899. The Guild accepted for training only women with an art school background, likely limiting them to a small pool of middle-class women; by 1903, they had an estimated 25-30 students. In keeping with the artistic styles of the time, many of the bindings featured Art Nouveau patterns, with sweeping lines and elegantly curved shapes. Karslake's advertising claimed that each binding was decorated with a unique pattern, though several patterns seem to have been variations of others.
The Guild promoted and sold not only its own bindings, but also those of other groups such as the Chiswick Art Guild. Consequently, the presence of a stamp of the Guild of Women Binders on a book may not necessarily mean that it was created by the Guild unless the individual binder can be identified, and may mean "little more than a bookseller's stamp."
Ultimately, the Guild was not a successful business venture, possibly due to Karslake's inexperience in the professional bookbinding world (despite his associations with several binding operations, he had never worked as a binder himself). Karslake had tried to grow the Guild too far and too fast, taking on more students than teachers, and expecting too much out of his teaching staff. Some professional bookbinders suspected that the bindings were too sophisticated to have been produced by women, especially recently trained ones; a few even accused Karslake of passing off the work of the Hampstead Bindery as Guild work. Potential buyers began to mistrust Karslake and the guild's products (with some justification, as Karslake and his workshops had little knowledge of sound bookbinding techniques such as those practiced by other Arts and Crafts binders of the time), and many bindings went unsold. The Guild was shuttered in 1904, leaving Karslake bankrupt and many of the women who had worked with him tainted by the controversy (though some did go on to continue independent careers as bookbinders).


== Notable people ==
This is an incomplete list of women binders associated with the Guild. 

Ella Bailey
Hélène Cox
Mary Downing
Muriel Driffield
"TMD"
Gwladys Edwards
Gertrude Giles
Dorothy Holmes
Annie S. Macdonald
Constance Karslake
Olive Karslake
Helen Schofield
Mrs. Frances Knight
Lilian Overton
Edith de Rheims
Florence de Rheims
Ethel Slater
Gertrude Stiles
H. W. Sym


== References ==


== Further reading ==
The bindings of to-morrow: a record of the work of the Guild of Women-Binders and of the Hampstead Bindery (London: Printed for the Guild of Women-Binders, 1902)

Alfred Francis Russell (August 25, 1817 – April 4, 1884) was an Americo-Liberian missionary, planter, and politician who served as the tenth president of Liberia from 1883 to 1884 after serving as vice-president under Anthony W. Gardner, whom he succeeded as president.
Born in Lexington, Kentucky, Russell was emancipated in 1833 (with his mother Amelie "Milly" Crawford) by their mistress Mary Owen Todd Russell Wickliffe (Russell's grandmother through his white father). Wickliffe also emancipated his cousin, Lucretia Russell, and her four children. Both families emigrated together from the United States to Liberia that year. Alfred F. Russell later married and had a daughter by the name of Julia Ann, who later married John Douglas Simpson one of the first black congressmen from Florida, United States. They both had several children including Alpha Douglas Simpson, father of future Liberian vice president Clarence L. Simpson Sr. Alfred Russell served as a Methodist missionary and later owned a large coffee and sugarcane farm. Russell continued to serve as a Methodist minister after entering politics; he was also elected to the Liberian Senate, and served as President Pro Tempore of the Senate of Liberia.


== Early life ==
Russell was born into slavery in 1817 Lexington, Kentucky, as the mixed-race, very white son of Amelie "Milly" Crawford, a mixed-race woman described as octoroon (meaning she was 7⁄8 European in ancestry). Their owner was Jane Hawkins Todd Irvine. Russell and his mother were the subjects of gossip in Lexington during Russell's youth. Robert J. Breckinridge published a pamphlet revealing that Alfred Francis Russell's father was John Russell, Irvine's grandson and Mary Owen Todd Russell Wickliffe's son from her first marriage. During a summer visit with his grandmother, John Russell, then a student at Princeton University, raped the enslaved octoroon Milly Crawford. Their son, Alfred, then, was overwhelmingly European in ancestry and appearance, reportedly being only 1⁄16 African.
After Irvine's death in 1822, Alfred Russell and his mother were sold to Irvine's daughter Mary Owen Todd Russell Wickliffe and her husband Robert. (Mary Wickliffe was the mother of John Russell by her late husband James Russell.) Alfred and his mother called their new mistress Mrs. Polly; she was a wealthy heiress of the frontiersman Colonel John Todd. He was the brother of Levi Todd, the grandfather of Mary Todd Lincoln.
In 1833, Mary Wickliffe emancipated Alfred (her grandson by blood) and his mother Milly; she also freed his cousin Lucretia (Lucy) Russell and her four children: Sinthia, Gilbert, George, and Henry, all of whom were of majority-white ancestry. They emigrated that year with nearly 200 other colonists to Liberia on the brig Ajax under auspices of the American Colonization Society; Alfred was fifteen years old when they arrived with other settlers in Liberia on July 11, 1833. Some 146 pioneers survived the voyage; about 30 children died during the voyage.


== Pioneers in Liberia ==

The Russells were among the last of 1,400 settlers to the colony. Conditions were very harsh for the pioneers; they suffered greatly from local diseases, including malaria, and supplies were extremely short in the colony for some time. "Housing was inadequate, food was scarce, and medical service was almost nonexistent." His cousin Lucy, her daughter Sinthia, and two eldest sons all quickly succumbed to the local fever, which caused ulcers. Sinthia died in 1836 and Gilbert in 1839. Alfred Russell also suffered from this disease, which resulted by 1835 in his having to use a crutch.
Russell's mother Milly married George Crawford, another immigrant. She died in 1845 of "dropsey", and he died the following year. Russell wrote in 1855 of their struggles in Africa:  "It was so long before we could find Africa out, how to live in it, and what to do to live, that it all most cost us death seeking life."
Lucy Russell married a man by the surname of Briant. By 1857, she had learned to read and write, as she wrote to her former master Robert Wickliffe from Liberia, asking to be remembered to his daughters and other persons she knew.


== Political career ==
Russell was trained to be a teacher after having suffered an illness that caused an injury in one leg. He later became an Episcopal priest in the St. Paul River area, where he had 200 acres in the Clay Ashland district, purchased for the free people of color by the Kentucky Colonization Society, an affiliate of the ACS. He cultivated sugar cane and coffee, for which he hired indigenous workers.
Russell also became active in politics. In 1881, he ran for vice-president with Anthony W. Gardner, who won the presidency for a third term. When health issues resulted in Gardner's resignation three years later, Russell became president.


== Presidency (1883–1884) ==


=== Territorial conflict with the British ===
The conflict with the British, which had reached a crisis during the Gardner administration, was still unsolved. Two months after Russell took office, in March 1883, the British Government annexed the Gallinas territory west of the Mano River and formally incorporated it into their colony of Sierra Leone, like Liberia established as a place of resettlement of free blacks and liberated slaves.
Whenever the British and French seemed intent on enlarging at Liberia's expense the neighboring territories they already controlled, periodic appearances by U.S. warships helped discourage encroachment. But successive American administrations rejected appeals from Monrovia for more forceful support. Russell, along with Gardner, has been notably blamed for Liberia's losing much of its territory to the British. This was likely why he was not re-elected to the presidency for a second term.


=== Economy ===
In the decades after 1868, escalating economic difficulties weakened the state's dominance over the coastal indigenous population. As conditions worsened, the cost of imports was far greater than the income generated by exports of coffee, rice, palm oil, sugar cane, and timber. Liberia tried desperately to modernize its largely agricultural economy.


== Death and legacy ==
Russell died, three months after he left office, on April 4, 1884.
Russell is survived by many descendants in Liberia and West Africa, and he was the paternal great-grandfather of Clarence Lorenzo Simpson and great-great-grandfather of Clarence Lorenzo Simpson Jr. He also has collateral paternal Russell relatives in U.S. states such as Maryland, Kentucky, and South Carolina.


== See also ==
History of Liberia


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Smither, James Wesley. Sojourners in Search of Freedom: The Settlement of Liberia by Black Americans. Lanham, Maryland: University Press of America, Inc., 1987.
Liebenow, J. Gus. Liberia: The Quest for Democracy. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1987.
See further: History of Liberia, further reading


== External links ==
"Alfred Francis Russell," A Durable Memento: Portraits by Augustus Washington, African American Daguerreotypist, exhibit, National Portrait Gallery, Smithsonian Institution
See History of Liberia, external links

Benjamin Timms (born 23 July 1998) is a Jèrriais professional wrestler. He is signed to WWE, where he performs on the SmackDown brand under the ring name Nathan Frazer. He is a former one-time NXT Heritage Cup Champion and a two-time NXT Tag Team Champion as one-half of Fraxiom with Axiom.


== Professional wrestling career ==


=== Early career (2018–2020) ===
Benjamin Timms was trained by fellow professional wrestlers Seth Rollins and Marek Brave at the Black and Brave Wrestling Academy in the United States. Timms made his professional wrestling debut in 2018 under the ring name Benjamin Carter, performing in various independent promotions including big name promotion: Resolute Wrestling in Crossville, TN where he defeated names such as Toby Farley, Caleb Courageous and Christopher Carlton and then moved on to other major promotions such as Impact Wrestling and All Elite Wrestling (AEW).


=== All Elite Wrestling (2020) ===
In 2020, Timms was invited by All Elite Wrestling's head of Talent Relations Christopher Daniels to appear for the promotion. Timms made his AEW debut in September 2020 at Daily's Place in Jacksonville, Florida. Timms, under his ring name Ben Carter, faced off against Ricky Starks in a losing effort on Dark. Carter made his Dynamite debut in the opening contest of 'Late Night Dynamite', losing against Scorpio Sky. Carter went on to have a 1-2 record before signing with the WWE later that year. In October 2020, it was revealed that Carter could not get legally paid for his AEW matches, due to not having a valid work visa in the United States.


=== WWE (2020–present) ===


==== NXT UK and NXT (2020–2023) ====
On 17 December 2020, WWE announced that they signed Timms. He was then assigned to the NXT UK brand where, on the episode 7 January 2021 episode of NXT UK, he made his debut under the ring name Ben Carter, facing Jordan Devlin for the NXT Cruiserweight Championship but lost. After defeating Josh Morell and Sam Gradwell, Carter was repackaged as Nathan Frazer on 11 March.
On the 3 June episode of NXT UK, Frazer and Jack Starz teamed up to face Pretty Deadly (Lewis Howley and Sam Stoker) for the NXT UK Tag Team Championship but were defeated. Later, Frazer competed to become the No. 1 contender for the NXT UK Heritage Cup but he lost to Teoman in the first round. Subsequently, Frazer also competed to become the No. 1 contender for the NXT United Kingdom Championship on 23 September, competed against A-Kid and Rampage Brown, where the former won. On 3 March 2022, Frazer fought his last match at NXT UK in a NXT United Kingdom Championship match, losing to Ilja Dragunov.
On 12 April 2022, it was announced that Frazer would make his NXT debut. At Spring Breakin' on 3 May, he debuted by defeating Grayson Waller due to the interference of Andre Chase. On the 2 August episode of NXT 2.0, Frazer responded to Carmelo Hayes' open challenge for the NXT North American Championship but lost when Giovanni Vinci interfered. On the 13 June 2023 episode of NXT, Frazer defeated Oro Mensah 2–1, who wrestled on behalf of Noam Dar due to Dar suffering an injury, to become the NXT Heritage Cup Champion. Frazer lost the Cup back to Dar 69 days later at NXT: Heatwave.


==== Fraxiom (2023–present) ====

In late 2023, Frazer formed a tag team partnership with Axiom (with the team later known as Fraxiom). The duo won the 2024 NXT Tag Team Championship Eliminator Tournament to face NXT Tag Team Champions The Wolf Dogs (Baron Corbin and Bron Breakker) for the titles at NXT Stand & Deliver on 6 April 2024 but failed to win the match. In a rematch on the following episode of NXT, Fraxiom defeated The Wolf Dogs to become the new NXT Tag Team Champions. Much later, Frazer started to set his sights on singles titles to Axiom's displeasure. On the 25 June episode of NXT, Frazer failed to defeat Tony D'Angelo for the NXT Heritage Cup. On the following day's episode of Speed, he defeated Akira Tozawa to advance in the Speed Championship #1 Contender's tournament but lost to The New Day's Xavier Woods in the final the next week. After multiple successful title defenses, on the 13 August episode of NXT, Chase University's Andre Chase and Ridge Holland defeated Fraxiom for the NXT Tag Team Championship, ending their reign at 126 days. The pair regained the titles in a rematch 19 days later at NXT No Mercy to become two-time champions. Soon after, Frazer began to set his sights on singles championships again. On the November 19 episode of NXT, Frazer defeated Eddy Thorpe to qualify for the Iron Survivor Challenge at NXT Deadline on 7 December, where Frazer failed to win the Iron Survivor Challenge but Fraxiom successfully defended the NXT Tag Team Championship against No Quarter Catch Crew (Myles Borne and Tavion Heights). At NXT: Roadblock on 11 March 2025, Fraxiom failed to defeat TNA World Tag Team Champions The Hardy Boyz for the title. On the 4 April episode of SmackDown, Frazer made his main roster debut where he lost to a debuting Rey Fénix. At NXT Stand & Deliver on April 19, Fraxiom lost the NXT Tag Team Championships to Hank and Tank (Hank Walker and Tank Ledger) in their final match for NXT, ending their second reign at 230 days.
On the 25 April episode of SmackDown, Fraxiom were promoted to the SmackDown brand, where they defeated Legado Del Fantasma's Los Garza (Angel and Berto) in their first match as a team in the main roster. After four successive tag team match wins, including a non-title match against WWE Tag Team Champions The Street Profits (Angelo Dawkins and Montez Ford), Fraxiom faced The Street Profits for the titles on the 23 May episode of SmackDown which ended in a no-contest after interference from #DIY (Johnny Gargano and Tommaso Ciampa) and Candice LeRae, Motor City Machine Guns (Alex Shelley and Chris Sabin), and the returning Wyatt Sicks (Uncle Howdy, Erick Rowan, Dexter Lumis, Joe Gacy and Nikki Cross).


=== Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (2025) ===
Timms, as Nathan Frazer, alongside the debuting Axiom returned to Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) at Genesis on 19 January 2025 during the tag team title match between TNA World Tag Team Champions The Hardys (Matt Hardy and Jeff Hardy) and The Rascalz (Trey Miguel and Zachary Wentz). Later that night, it was announced that The Rascalz will face Fraxiom for the NXT Tag Team Championship on the 23 January episode of Impact!, becoming the first WWE wrestlers to defend a WWE championship in TNA where they successfully retained the titles after interference from Wes Lee, Tyriek Igwe and Tyson Dupont.


== Personal life ==
On 19 April 2023, Timms became a born-again Christian, announcing he had been baptized.


== Other media ==
As Nathan Frazer, he made his video game debut in WWE 2K23 as downloadable content in the Bad News U pack. He also appears as a regular game character in the WWE 2K24 , WWE 2K25, and WWE 2K26 Video games.


== Championships and accomplishments ==
Pro Wrestling Illustrated
Ranked No. 165 of the top 500 singles wrestlers in the PWI 500 in 2023
Ranked No. 2 of the top 100 tag team wrestlers in the PWI 100 in 2024 – with Axiom
Resolute Wrestling
Resolute P4P Championship (1 time)
Resolute Undisputed Championship (2 times)
SCW Pro Wrestling
SCW Pro Iowa Wrestling Championship (1 time)
WWE
NXT Heritage Cup (1 time)
NXT Tag Team Championship (2 times) – with Axiom
NXT Tag Team Championship Eliminator Tournament (2024) – with Axiom
NXT Year-End Award (1 time)
Tag Team of the Year (2024) – with Axiom


== References ==


== External links ==
Nathan Frazer's profile at WWE , Cagematch , Wrestlingdata , Internet Wrestling Database 
Nathan Frazer at IMDb

Helter Skelter is a 1949 British romantic comedy film directed by Ralph Thomas and starring Carol Marsh, David Tomlinson and Mervyn Johns. It was written by Patrick Campbell.
A radio star becomes involved with a wealthy heiress. The title is a common expression to describe a situation of "chaotic and disorderly haste".
The recurring English comic characters Charters and Caldicott also appeared in the film.


== Plot ==
Susan Graham is a discontented heiress whose joint guardians are both trying to get her married to their odious nephews. On her nineteenth birthday, the five of them visit a nightclub called the Magnolia Club; also present happens to be radio star Nick Martin, whom Susan detests. When she is inadvertently seated at Martin's table directly in front of the floor show, she refuses to move, and Martin, despite his radio reputation as a fearless detective, is too intimidated by her hauteur to insist. This, however, proves to be a mixed blessing for Susan; when the evening's principal performer, a ventriloquist, comes out, she laughs so hard at his routine that she gets a bad case of the hiccups. She attempts to cure them by getting a drink of water, but succeeds only in getting caught in the crossfire of a pie fight.
Four days later, Susan's hiccups still haven't stopped, and her doctor recommends that her guardians take her to a certain haunted house for a good fright. On the way, they stop at a pub for directions, and Susan runs into Nick Martin again. At first, she is still chilly towards him, but then the narrator shoots the two of them with Cupid's arrow, and they immediately fall in love. Martin's overbearing mother, however, soon comes to take him away – but not before the two of them have arranged a rendezvous.
The plot then proceeds to the haunted house, where Susan's guardians, not believing in the ghost, have hired an actor to play the part. Susan, however, slips away to her rendezvous before he begins working; consequently, she still has the hiccups when Mrs Martin finds her and Nick trysting together. This fact doesn't amuse Mrs Martin, who apparently believes that hiccups are contagious; she forbids Susan to see her son again, and suggests that she see a psychiatrist about her problem.
The psychiatrist concludes that, because Susan got the hiccups from laughing, she can rid herself of them if she laughs that hard again. He recommends “a fellow on a BBC show called Jimmy Edwards”; Susan accordingly goes to the BBC studios, where, naturally enough, she meets Nick again. The two of them arrange a date at the Magnolia Club, ostensibly so Susan can cure her hiccups by laughing at the ventriloquist again, but really so they can gaze into each other's eyes all night. Their reverie is interrupted, however, by Mrs Martin, who shows up at the club and orders her son home. When Nick fails to stand up to her, Susan, disgusted, storms out of the club, inspiring Nick, a little too late, to develop a backbone and tell his mother off.
Returning home, Susan writes a letter to Nick breaking off their relationship, but the Martin address turns out to be unlisted. She therefore returns to the BBC and leaves the letter on his microphone; on her way back out, however, she mistakes the door and ends up locking herself in a cupboard. The next morning, she turns up missing; Nick, frantic, sets all of England looking for her, and at first refuses to broadcast until she's found. Being persuaded, however, that his programme is necessary for the social stability of the nation, he returns to the BBC that evening; in the course of the broadcast, the cupboard door is opened, and Susan tumbles out, unconscious. She is, however, quickly revived – and, what is more, when she sees her guardians’ nephews (who have inadvertently locked themselves into, and then flooded, the mixing room), she bursts out laughing, thereby finally curing herself of the hiccups. She and Nick fall into each other's arms, and all ends happily.


== Stand-alone segments ==
Helter Skelter is as much a variety programme as it is a narrative film; it includes numerous scenes that have only the faintest connection with the plot, and are included principally for their stand-alone comedy value. The following are noteworthy:

The ventriloquist routine that gives Susan the hiccups is shown in full; it features Robert Lamouret and a duck puppet named Dudule.
While Susan is being shown her bedroom at the haunted house, the maid has a fantasy in which she becomes a notorious 17th century courtesan, the romantic interest of both Oliver Cromwell and King Charles II.
In a vain attempt to make Susan laugh, the psychiatrist shows her scenes from the silent-comedy film Would You Believe It!, starring Walter Forde, involving four spies trying to seize an inventor's briefcase.
During Susan's first trip to the BBC, Terry-Thomas is shown as a frantic disc jockey whose assistant has broken the record he was supposed to play; in desperation, he attempts to sing the song himself, despite sounding nothing like the original recording artist. (This would later become a staple routine of Thomas's, known as the "Technical Hitch" sketch.)
At the very end of the film a brief appearance is made by a mermaid, and David Tomlinson stares at her, saying she’s “someone [he] once knew”; this is in reference to the film Miranda (1948), which he starred in with Glynis Johns.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
Director Ralph Thomas called the film "one of those 'Friday night pictures'" he made under Sydney Box. "You were quite likely to finish shooting on Friday, plan to go into the cutting rooms on Monday to look over your stuff and get your cut ready, then go for a drink, and you'd be given another script and be told, 'The sets are standing and you start on Monday – this is the cast!' It wasn't necessarily good and we didn't get a lot of money, but it was regular."
Thomas did not "particularly want to make comedies, but I said I'd enormously admired a crazy American picture called Hellzapoppin! We cast it well and enjoyed making it, although I never quite understood the storyline. Funnily enough it has become a sort of cult picture in odd places."
Associate producer Alfred Roome called it "terrible, you couldn't do anything with that."


== Reception ==
The Monthly Film Bulletin wrote: "Every conceivable formula for laughter is employed, including revue sketches, an early Walter Forde comedy, custard pies, and trick photography, but although the cast strives had for laughs, the fim is a dismal failure. Carol Marsh and David Tomlinson as the petulant lovers do not improve the situation and the atmosphere of forced hilarity is wearisome"
In British Sound Films: The Studio Years 1928–1959 David Quinlan rated the film as "poor", writing: "one of the best casts ever wasted on a terrible film; gets worse the harder it tries."
Ralph Thomas later said the film "was too crazy for any audience... it would have made a perfectly good radio show but had no possible visual appeal."


== References ==


== External links ==
Helter Skelter at IMDb
Helter Skelter at Britmovie

Milan Kný is a retired Czechoslovak slalom canoeist who competed from the late 1950s to the mid-1960s. He won a silver medal in the C-2 team event at the 1959 ICF Canoe Slalom World Championships in Geneva.


== References ==


== External links ==
Milan KNY at CanoeSlalom.net

Clunio is a genus of non-biting midges in the subfamily Orthocladiinae of the bloodworm family (Chironomidae). All species in the genus are marine. They are found in the intertidal zone of many coasts worldwide. The species Clunio marinus is a long-standing model system in chronobiology and its genome has been sequenced. Clunio species can be dispersed widely by hitch-hiking on sea turtles, feeding on algae growing on their carapace.


== Species ==
The following species are recognized by the World Register of Marine Species, with some additional species recognized by the Catalogue of Life (marked with C):

Clunio adriaticus Schiner, 1856
Clunio africanus Hesse, 1937
Clunio aquilonius Tokunaga, 1938
Clunio balticus Heimbach, 1978
Clunio boudouresquei Moubayed-Breil, 2019 C
Clunio brasiliensis Oliviera, 1950
Clunio brevis Stone & Wirth, 1947
Clunio californiensis Hashimoto, 1974
Clunio chilensis Paggi, 1985 C
Clunio fuscipennis Wirth, 1952
Clunio gerlachi Saether, 2004 C
Clunio jonesi Sæther & Andersen, 2011
Clunio littoralis Stone & Wirth, 1947
Clunio marinus Haliday, 1855
Clunio marshalli Stone & Wirth, 1947
Clunio martini Hashimoto, 1973
Clunio minor Tokunaga, 1933 C
Clunio pacificus Edwards, 1926
Clunio ponticus Michailova, 1980
Clunio purpureus Hashimoto, 1962
Clunio schmitti Stone & Wirth, 1947
Clunio setoensis Tokunaga, 1933
Clunio takahashii Tokunaga, 1938
Clunio tsushimensis Tokunaga, 1933
Clunio tuthilli Tokunaga, 1964
Clunio vagans Stone & Wirth, 1947
Clunio vagansmensis Stone & Wirth C
Clunio virginianus Paggi, 1985 C


== References ==

That Friday Feeling (TFF) was a humorous phone in and music radio programme, broadcast on Mansfield 103.2 which last aired in September 2009.
Mansfield 103.2 FM – The Home of Great Music is an Independent Local Radio station in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire.
The show ran for three hours, between 7pm and 10pm, on Fridays. Presented by Ian 'Watko' Watkins, it also featured his producers, Christoff, Cam and Ben. Podcasts of the show were made available by MickYNWA.
The show relied on callers and crazy topics. Some of the regulars included the Iman, Crazy Dave, Helen in Sutton, Sue Morgan, Russell from Warsop, David In Mansfield, Mad Pixie, Gary from Kirkby and Phil Mitchell.
In one episode Phil Mitchell was almost enticed to buy a fridge by an unknown caller.
The show was heavily influenced by radio and TV presenter Iain Lee and on 24 July 2009 he made a guest appearance live in the studio.
The programme started on 22 February 2008 and ran for 5 series until 11 September 2009.
TFF did make a come back for a one off special on 24 March 2017, where Watko put together a treasure hunt and people had to help find golden ducks that were hidden across Mansfield, Ashfield and Bolsover


== References ==

MickYNWA audio archives [1]
Iain Lee's visit to Mansfield 103.2 [2]
Ian Watkins – Friday Nights on Mansfield 103.2 FM [3]
Phil Mitchell and the Fridge call [4]


== External links ==
Mansfield 103.2
Watko's Blog

The Rivett-Carnac baronetcy, of Derby, is a title in the Baronetage of the United Kingdom. It was created on 12 March 1836 for James Rivett-Carnac, Chairman of the East India Company, Member of Parliament for Sandwich and Governor of Bombay. His father James Rivett had assumed by royal warrant the additional surname of Carnac in 1801. The second Baronet represented Lymington in the House of Commons as a Conservative.
The fourth Baronet was missing for many years, with his last confirmed location being Seattle in 1906. After this date he was also reported to have visited Portland, Oregon, Philadelphia, Standerton, Durban and Vancouver. On 11 March 1924 an order was issued in the Chancery Division of the High Court of Justice, presuming his death to have occurred on 31 December 1909.
Admiral John Rivett-Carnac was the younger brother of the first Baronet. James Rivett-Carnac, a younger son of the sixth Baronet, was a vice-admiral in the Royal Navy. The designer Lulu Guinness is the daughter of the ninth Baronet.


== Rivett-Carnac baronets, of Derby (1836) ==
Sir James Rivett-Carnac, 1st Baronet (1784–1846)
Sir John Rivett-Carnac, 2nd Baronet (1818–1883)
Sir James Henry Sproule Rivett-Carnac, 3rd Baronet (1846–1909)
Sir Claud James Rivett-Carnac, 4th Baronet (1877–1909)
Sir William Percival Rivett-Carnac, 5th Baronet (1847–1924)
Sir Clennell George Rivett-Carnac, 6th Baronet (1851–1932)
Sir Henry George Crabbe Rivett-Carnac, 7th Baronet (1889–1972)
Canon Sir (Thomas) Nicholas Rivett-Carnac, 8th Baronet (1927–2004)
Sir Miles James Rivett-Carnac, 9th Baronet (1933–2009)
Sir Jonathan James Rivett-Carnac, 10th Baronet (born 1962)
The heir presumptive is the present baronet's nephew, Tom Alexander Miles Rivett-Carnac (born 1996).


== Notes ==


== External links ==
Canon Sir Nicholas Rivett-Carnac, 8th Baronet obituary. The Daily Telegraph, 19 May 2004.

The 1944 WANFL season was the 60th season of the various incarnations of the Western Australian National Football League. Consequent upon the improved fortunes of the Allies in the Pacific War, the league's decision to restrict football to those under nineteen as of 1 October become somewhat controversial, but the WANFL after much debate during the early weeks of the season decided it would not raise the age limit or even as West Perth suggested allow four 1943 players over the limit to play. This meant that a large number of players who had been mainstays in the 1942 and 1943 seasons were no longer eligible to play, and as in 1943 a number of players still eligible were erratically available due to service in the war.
The 1944 season is notable for the first perfect season in the history of Western Australian league football, by East Perth. Under the coaching of former forward Cecil Rowland an exceptionally powerful core of players was developed from 1942 and 1943 mainstays including Frank Allen, Ken Wimbridge, Ray Perry, John "Todge" Campbell and Ron Brentnall, joined by outstanding talents in full-forward Alan Watts, key position player Jim Washbourne and injury-plagued but talented rover Norm Gibbney. So well-equipped were the Royals that they did not suffer during the finals from the loss of best-and-fairest Campbell, ruckman Brentnall and Ron Frankish – instead fitting Northam defender Jack Leadbitter and Wesley rover Ernie England for their only games of the season and losing nothing in efficiency. At the other end of the ladder, South Fremantle, already last in 1943, lost their only class players in Frank Treasure and Erik Eriksson and became the first team since Midland Junction in 1917 to lose every match. The red and whites in fact never led during the second half in any of their nineteen matches, and officials were so desperate that a meeting of former players was called mid-season to revive the club's on-field fortunes – to no effect.
Apart from South Fremantle's winless season, Claremont suffered a huge loss when Claremont Oval, which had been their home ground since 1927, had its grandstand completely burnt down in a fire at 5:11 a.m. on 28 July. In the fire, which was estimated to have cost a total of £3000, all the records, jerseys and training equipment were lost, and Claremont were forced to play home matches at Subiaco Oval and the W.A.C.A. until 1948, despite financial donations by Collingwood to help rebuild the grandstand. The Tigers had to take the field in several games wearing East Perth guernseys, and suffered from the loss of key players like Robin Farmer, consequently falling to second-last on the ladder.


== Home-and-away season ==


=== Round 1 ===


=== Round 2 ===


=== Round 3 ===


=== Round 4 ===


=== Round 5 ===


=== Round 6 ===


=== Round 7 ===


=== Round 8 ===


=== Round 9 ===


=== Round 10 ===


=== Round 11 ===


=== Round 12 ===


=== Round 13 ===


=== Round 14 ===


=== Round 15 ===


=== Round 16 ===


=== Round 17 ===


=== Round 18 ===


=== Round 19 ===


== Ladder ==


== Finals ==


=== First semi-final ===


=== First semi-final replay ===


=== Second semi-final ===


=== Preliminary final ===


=== Grand Final ===


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official WAFL website
Western Australian National Football League (WANFL), 1944

James H. Morrison (October 5, 1898 – July 13, 1951) was an American sports coach, athletic director, and educator who served as the head football, basketball, and track and field coach at Valley City State Teachers College—now known as Valley City State University—from 1925 to 1936. One of the most successful early figures in the history of Viking athletics, Morrison coached three sports and led his programs to a combined 15 conference championships.
During his tenure, Morrison's football teams secured three consecutive North Dakota College Athletic Conference (NDCAC) championships from 1926 through 1928, establishing VCSU as a regional power in the upper Midwest. He also coached the basketball and track and field teams, winning six conference titles in each sport and setting foundational standards for the university’s athletic success.


== Early life and playing career ==
Morrison was born on October 5, 1898 in Sioux City, Iowa. He attended high school in Council Bluffs, Iowa, where played football as a center. Morrison then moved on to Iowa State College—now known as Iowa State University—where played as a guard on the Iowa State Cyclones football team, lettering in 1920 and 1921. He graduated from Iowa State in 1922.


== Coaching career ==
Morrison began his coaching and teaching career in 1922, at the high school in Cresco, Iowa. Two years later, he moved to Bismarck High School in Bismarck, North Dakota, to serve as athletic instructor, coach, and physics teacher.
Morrison arrived at Valley City State in 1925 and quickly became the defining coaching figure of the decade. His football teams relied on defensive discipline and a tough running game, characteristics that helped produce three straight NDCAC titles from 1926 to 1928. Beyond football, Morrison's basketball teams won six NDCAC championships (1925–26, 1926–27, 1929–30, 1930–31, 1933–34, 1934–35). His track and field teams also earned six conference titles (1928, 1930, 1931, 1933, 1934, 1935), making him one of the winningest multi-sport coaches in school history.
In 1938, Morrison was appointed director of athletics and physical educational at Wayne State College in Wayne, Nebraska.


== Late life and death ==
Morrison died on July 13, 1951, in Wayne, Nebraska, after suffering from a stroke.


== Head coaching record ==


=== College football ===


== References ==


== External links ==
VCSU Viking Hall of Fame
Jim Morrison at Find a Grave

Big St. Martin Island is an island in Mackinac County of the U.S. state of Michigan. It is located in St. Martin Bay, a bay of Lake Huron.
Like other islands in and around the Mackinac Straits, Big St. Martin Island is believed to be sacred ground to local Native Americans.  The island was privately owned as of 2010.


== See also ==
List of islands of Michigan


== References ==

Tarski's circle-squaring problem is the challenge, posed by Alfred Tarski in 1925, to take a disc in the plane, cut it into finitely many pieces, and reassemble the pieces so as to get a square of equal area. It is possible, using pieces that are Borel sets, but not with pieces cut by Jordan curves.


== Solutions ==
Tarski's circle-squaring problem was proven to be solvable by Miklós Laczkovich in 1990. The decomposition makes heavy use of the axiom of choice and is therefore non-constructive. Laczkovich estimated the number of pieces in his decomposition at roughly 1050. The pieces used in his decomposition are non-measurable subsets of the plane.
Laczkovich actually proved the reassembly can be done using translations only; rotations are not required. Along the way, he also proved that any simple polygon in the plane can be decomposed into finitely many pieces and reassembled using translations only to form a square of equal area.
It follows from a result of Wilson (2005) that it is possible to choose the pieces in such a way that they can be moved continuously while remaining disjoint to yield the square. Moreover, this stronger statement can be proved as well to be accomplished by means of translations only.
A constructive solution was given by Łukasz Grabowski, András Máthé and Oleg Pikhurko in 2016 which worked everywhere except for a set of measure zero. In 2017, Andrew Marks and Spencer Unger gave a completely constructive solution using Borel sets.  In an interview, Marks has claimed it is possible to use about 
  
    
      
        
          10
          
            200
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle 10^{200}}
  
 Borel pieces.


== Limitations ==
Lester Dubins, Morris W. Hirsch & Jack Karush proved it is impossible to dissect a circle and make a square using pieces that could be cut with an idealized pair of scissors (that is, having Jordan curve boundary).


== Related problems ==
The Bolyai–Gerwien theorem is a related but much simpler result: it states that one can accomplish such a decomposition of a simple polygon with finitely many polygonal pieces if both translations and rotations are allowed for the reassembly.
These results should be compared with the much more paradoxical decompositions in three dimensions provided by the Banach–Tarski paradox; those decompositions can even change the volume of a set. However, in the plane, a decomposition into finitely many pieces must preserve the sum of the Banach measures of the pieces, and therefore cannot change the total area of a set.


== See also ==
Squaring the circle, a different problem: the task (which has been proven to be impossible) of constructing, for a given circle, a square of equal area with straightedge and compass alone.


== References ==

Triple planetary crisis is a term and framework adopted by the United Nations system to describe the three intersecting global environmental crises of pollution, climate crisis, biodiversity loss and/or ecological crises. This term underscores the interdependence of these issues and their collective impact on the planet's ecosystems, societies, and economies.
The three crises interconnect to increase environmental risks and cause global economic loss. The framework is designed to address the need to mitigate and adapt to the challenges posed by pollution, climate crisis, and biodiversity loss.
The framework is similar to other multidimensional analyses of human impacts on the environment including global catastrophic risk and planetary boundaries. For further information about human impacts on the environment, see environmental issues.


== Pollution ==
The pollution crisis includes various forms of pollution, including air pollution, water pollution, and soil contamination. It is characterized by the release of pollutants and harmful chemicals such as synthetic organic chemicals, plastics, and metals into the environment, impacting both human health and ecosystems. As reported by The Lancet Commission on pollution and health, pollution stands as the leading environmental cause of disease and death. In 2015, an estimated 9 million premature deaths were attributed to illnesses linked to pollution. With over 80% of urban populations currently exposed to air quality levels greater than World Health Organization limits, air pollution levels in many urban cities, particularly those from low and middle income countries, are rising. Furthermore, pollution can impact the ecosystem through albedo reduction, ocean acidification, ozone depletion, and more.


== Climate crisis ==
The climate crisis encompasses global warming and climate change, which have resulted from the excessive accumulation of greenhouse gases in the Earth's atmosphere. It leads to rising temperatures, sea-level rise, and extreme weather events such as extreme precipitation, flooding, extreme heat events, severe storms, drought and more. Furthermore, these conditions can lead to food and water insecurity, displacement and migration from coastal areas, an increase in transmission of water-borne diseases, and more.


== Biodiversity loss ==

Biodiversity loss or ecological crisis refers to the significant reduction in the variety and abundance of species in ecosystems worldwide. Anthropogenic activities such as habitat destruction, overexploitation, and invasive species contribute to this crisis. The consequences of biodiversity loss on ecological processes have as significant of an impact as various other prominent drivers of global environmental change such as climate change, forms of pollution, and more. With up to one million plant and animal species facing the threat of extinction, biodiversity loss hurts an ecosystem's ability to properly function, making it harder for it to maintain a healthy environment. Furthermore, a loss in biodiversity makes it harder for ecosystems to adapt to climate change. With over half the global GDP being dependent on nature and the livelihoods of over 1 billion people worldwide connected to forests, the consequences of biodiversity loss are extensive.


== The role of the United Nations ==
The United Nations system, through various agencies and initiatives, work to address the crisis alongside its member states. Currently, these include UN Climate Change, UN Environment, UN Biodiversity, the UN Convention to Combat Desertification and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, which aims to provide aid to refugees displaced by the climate crisis.
For further information on consequences of the climate crisis, see effects of climate change.


== See also ==
Sustainable Development Goals
Wildlife Conservation
Environmental Policy
United Nations Environment Programme
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services
Intergovernmental Science-Policy Panel on Chemicals, Waste and Pollution


== References ==

Lynton Ronald "Red" Wilson  (3 April 1940 – 9 February 2026) was a Canadian business executive. He served as chairman of the board at both Nortel and CAE, chief executive officer at BCE, and corporate director of DaimlerChrysler.


== Life and career ==
Wilson was born and raised in Port Colborne, Ontario, and educated at Port Colborne High School. He obtained an undergraduate degree from McMaster University before entering the foreign service. After postings in Vienna and Japan, Wilson became a teaching assistant at Cornell University where he earned an M.A. in Economics.
Entering the corporate world, Wilson held the position of corporate economist and director of economic research with John Labatt Ltd. from 1969 to 1971, before becoming co-ordinator-industrial research and development policy for the Federal Government.
Wilson left the government again in 1974 to take up a vice-presidency and directorship with MacMillan Bloedel, but returned to the civil service to become the executive director (1977–78) and then deputy minister (1978–1981) of industry and tourism for the Government of Ontario.
Returning once more to the corporate world in 1981, Wilson became the president and CEO of Redpath Industries Ltd., later becoming chairman in 1988. In 1989, he was appointed vice-chairman of the Bank of Nova Scotia. Wilson became president and COO of BCE Inc., Canada's largest telecommunications company, in 1990, was appointed president and CEO in 1992, and added the responsibilities of chairman in 1993. Wilson stepped down from all but his position as chairman in 1998, but continued to serve as chairman of the board until 2000. Between 2000 and 2005 he served as chairman for Nortel.
Wilson held numerous honorary degrees, and was appointed officer of the Order of Canada in 1997. In later life he continued to be involved with companies such as Nortel Networks, CAE Inc., and Daimler AG, and also served as chancellor of his alma mater, McMaster University from 2007 to 2013.
Wilson died on 9 February 2026, at the age of 85. He was survived by his wife, Brenda, and their three children and grandchildren.


== References ==


== External links ==
Biography as Chancellor of McMaster University
Biography as an introduction to a speech made to the Empire Club

N. K. K. P. Raja (born 8 March 1966) is an Indian politician who served as the Minister for Textiles and Handlooms, Tamil Nadu in the M. Karunanidhi cabinet during 2006-08. He is the son of  N. K. K. Periasamy, himself a former minister who held the same portfolio in the 1996-2001 Karunanidhi Cabinet.  He is a member of the 13th Tamil Nadu Assembly representing the Erode Constituency in Tamil Nadu and is a member of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) political party.


== Controversies ==
In June 2008, an aged couple claimed that NKKP Raja called them over phone and asked them to register their 10-acre (40,000 m2) land in favour of his men. They alleged that Raja and others had a role in their abduction in connection with a property claim. They also filed a memo apprehending danger to their lives as well as those of their grandchildren. In August 2008, he was dropped from the state cabinet. In October 2009, he was involved in a violent altercation with Sivabalan, the couple's son. Both Raja and Sivabalan were admitted to hospitals with injuries which both of them allege were caused by the other and police registered cases against them. On 26 October 2009, he was expelled from the primary membership of the DMK.


== References ==

Hüsnü Savman (18 August 1908 – 8 August 1948) was a Turkish footballer. He competed in the men's tournament at the 1936 Summer Olympics.


== References ==


== External links ==
Hüsnü Savman at WorldFootball.net
Hüsnü Savman at the Turkish Football Federation
Hüsnü Savman at EU-Football.info
Hüsnü Savman at Olympedia

Tuiloma Neroni Slade (born 8 April 1941) is a Samoan politician, diplomat and lawyer who held the post of secretary general of the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat from 2008 to 4 December 2014. He was elected to the position for three years on 20 August 2008. Slade was reappointed to a second term by the leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum on 8 September 2011.


== Biography ==
Tuiloma Neroni Slade was born in Samoa on 8 April 1941. He graduated with a LL.B. from Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand.


=== Career ===
Slade began his career as a Samoan lawyer, serving as the senior prosecutor for the attorney general and the Parliamentary Counsel to the Samoan government. He became the Attorney-General of Samoa in 1976 and remained in office until 1982.
Slade became the Samoan ambassador to the United States and permanent representative to the United Nations and a judge of the International Criminal Court. He was elected to the International Criminal Court in 2003 for a three-year term, and served as presiding judge of Pre-Trial Chamber II.
Before beginning a diplomatic career in 1993, Slade became the assistant director of the legal office for the Commonwealth Secretariat, based in London.
Slade served as a Samoan diplomat from 1993 until his appointment to the International Criminal Court in 2003. He was appointed Samoa's permanent representative to the United Nations in New York City. Slade concurrently served as both the Samoan Ambassador to the United States and the High Commissioner to Canada.
He has also served as chairman of the Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS) from 1997 to 2003.


=== International Criminal Court ===
In 2003, Slade was elected to a three-year term as a justice of the International Criminal Court. During his tenure, Slade served as a Presiding Judge of Pre-Trial Chamber II at the International Criminal Court in The Hague, the Netherlands. He practised law as an international legal consultant from 2007 to 2008 after leaving the court.


=== Secretary general ===
Tuiloma Neroni Slade was appointed secretary general of the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat on 20 August 2008 for a three-year term and took office on 13 October 2008. He was elected following the death of Secretary General Greg Urwin on 9 August 2008. He succeeded acting Secretary General Feleti Teo, who also sought appointment to a full term.
He announced his intention to seek reappointment to a second term in 2011. Slade's reappointment was openly opposed by the government Frank Bainimarama of Fiji, which has been suspended from the Pacific Islands Forum since 2009. Bainimarama put forth another candidate for nomination, former Fijian foreign minister Kaliopate Tavola, with the initial support of the members of the Melanesian Spearhead Group. Fiji released statements touting the opposition of the Pacific Islands Forum's Melanesian members to Slade's reappointment.
Despite Tavola's nomination, the leaders of the Pacific Islands Forum unanimously reappointed Slade for a second term on 8 September 2011, following a leaders' retreat on Waiheke Island in Auckland, New Zealand. He received full support from all members, including the Melanesian Spearhead Group. It is unknown if any Melanesian members put forth Tavola's nomination during the retreat. Slade thanked leaders for his renomination in a statement, "I sincerely thank the Forum Leaders for having confidence in me to lead their Secretariat for a second term. I will of course work to the best of my abilities to serve the Forum membership in pursuit of aspirations in the Leaders' Vision for a region of peace, harmony, security and economic prosperity, so that all our people can lead free and worthwhile lives."
Following his retirement, Slade was appointed to Samoa's Judicial Service Commission.


=== Awards and recognitions ===
Slade received the Elizabeth Haub Award for Environmental Diplomacy in 2001. He was the recipient of the Elisabeth Mann Borgese Medal and the Global Oceans Leadership Award, both in 2003 for his work on behalf of the oceans and developing, small island states. In 2005, he was awarded the Order of Samoa ù Poloaiga Sili a Samoa. In November 2016 he was awarded an honorary doctorate from Victoria University of Wellington.


== References ==

Amie Fabureh is a Gambian politician who is serving as the Minister of Agriculture. She was appointed on 27 March 2019, by President Adama Barrow after working in the ministry for 30 years in different positions including as Training Officer in the Department of Agricultural Development Agency from 2007 to 2009, and Deputy Manager until 2017 when she became Horticulture Technical Services Manager. She was the chairwoman of the National Women's Council (NWC) in 2018.
Fabureh holds a master's degree in horticulture from the University of Reading in the United Kingdom and a Post Graduate Diploma in Gender and Development from the Management Development Institute, Gambia.


== References ==

In liquid crystals, homeotropic alignment is one of the ways of alignment of liquid crystalline molecules. Homeotropic alignment is the state in which a rod-like liquid crystalline molecule aligns perpendicularly to the substrate. In the polydomain state, the parts also are called homeotropic domains. In contrast, the state in which the molecule aligns to a substance in parallel is called homogeneous alignment.
There are various other ways of alignment in liquid crystals. Because homeotropic alignment is not anisotropic optically, a dark field is observed between crossed polarizers in polarizing optical microscopy. 
By conoscope observation, however, a cross image is observed in the homeotropic alignments. Homeotropic alignment often appears in the smectic A phase (SA).
In discotic liquid crystals homeotropic alignment is defined as the state in which an axis of the column structure, which is formed by disc-like liquid crystalline molecules, aligns perpendicularly to a substance. In other words, this alignment looks like a state in which columns formed by piled-up coins are arranged in an orderly way on a table.
In practice, the homeotropic alignment is usually achieved by surfactants and detergent for example lecithin, some esilanes or some special polyimide (PI 1211). Generally liquid crystals align homeotropically at an air or glass interface.


== References ==

Harrison Charter Township is a charter township of Macomb County in the U.S. state of Michigan.  The population was 24,314 at the 2020 census.
Harrison Township was formed in 1827 in the Michigan Territory along the shores of Lake St. Clair. The township became a charter township in 1978.


== Geography ==
The township is in southeastern Macomb County, along the northwestern shores of Lake St. Clair. The Clinton River has its mouth in the lake within Harrison Township, and Lake St. Clair Metropark is within the township, along the lakeshore. The township is partially bordered to the west by the city of Mount Clemens, the Macomb county seat.
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the township has a total area of 23.76 square miles (61.5 km2), of which 14.25 square miles (36.9 km2) are land and 9.51 square miles (24.6 km2), or 40.03%, are water.
Selfridge Air National Guard Base, which was first built in 1917, is an Air National Guard installation that occupies a large portion of the northern section of the township.


== Communities ==
Belvidere, originally called Huron Point, was a historic settlement formed within the township in 1835 by David and James Conger from Cleveland, who bought land near the mouth of the Clinton River.  It was platted the next year and given a post office in 1837.  Many lots of land were sold to future settlers, but the area had to be abandoned soon after, when it was flooded in 1838.
Harrison Township was part of the original Michigan Territory, formed in 1827. It became a charter township government on November 13, 1978.
Lakeside is an unincorporated community located in the southern portion of the township at 42°33′54″N 82°50′21″W.  The community was settled around 1900 by Pittsburgh capitalists who anticipated creating a coastal city east of Mount Clemens along L'Anse Creuse Bay (French for "Little Bay").  The community never really developed on its own and merely succeeded due to its proximity to Mount Clemens.
Liverpool is a former community located within the township along L'Anse Creuse Bay.  It began in 1856 when Edward Shook platted the village with the hopes of making it similar to Liverpool, England.  He built a hotel and a dock along the lake, but the project failed.
Saint Clair Haven is an unincorporated community located along the shores of Lake St. Clair at 42°35′00″N 82°47′25″W.


== Major highways ==
 I-94 runs south–north along the western edge of the township.
 M-59 enters briefly in the northwest corner of the township before having its eastern terminus at I-94.


== Demographics ==
As of the census of 2000, there were 24,461 people, 10,720 households, and 6,421 families residing in the township.  The population density was 1,710.2 inhabitants per square mile (660.3/km2).  There were 11,486 housing units at an average density of 803.0 per square mile (310.0/km2).  The racial makeup of the township was 94.53% White, 2.47% African American, 0.38% Native American, 0.58% Asian, 0.04% Pacific Islander, 0.45% from other races, and 1.55% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino residents of any race were 1.48% of the population.
There were 10,720 households, out of which 26.9% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 47.5% were married couples living together, 8.1% had a female householder with no husband present, and 40.1% were non-families. 33.1% of all households were made up of individuals, and 8.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 2.28 and the average family size was 2.94.
In the township, 21.9% of the population was under the age of 18, 8.7% was from 18 to 24, 32.5% from 25 to 44, 26.0% from 45 to 64, and 10.9% was 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females, there were 101.2 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 100.7 males.
The median income for a household in the township was $51,892, and the median income for a family was $67,129. Males had a median income of $47,444 versus $31,561 for females. The per capita income for the township was $29,491.  About 3.6% of families and 5.7% of the population were below the poverty line, including 7.0% of those under age 18 and 5.9% of those age 65 or over.


== Education ==
The entire township is served by L'Anse Creuse Public Schools, which is headquartered in Clinton Township to the west.


== Notable people ==
Dino Ciccarelli, retired professional ice hockey player
Uncle Kracker, singer and musician
David Legwand, retired professional ice hockey player
Candice Miller, county and state politician
Angela Ruggiero, retired professional ice hockey player and Olympian


== References ==


=== Sources ===
Romig, Walter (October 1, 1986) [1973]. Michigan Place Names: The History of the Founding and the Naming of More Than Five Thousand Past and Present Michigan Communities (Paperback). Great Lakes Books Series. Detroit, Michigan: Wayne State University Press. pp. 55, 254, 315, 331. ISBN 978-0-8143-1838-6.


== External links ==
Official website
The Lost Villages of Harrison
Harrison Township Factsheet

The 1997 Oklahoma Sooners football team represented the University of Oklahoma during the 1997 NCAA Division I-A football season. They played their home games at Oklahoma Memorial Stadium and participated as members of the Big 12 Conference in the South Division. They were coached by John Blake.


== Schedule ==


== Game summaries ==


=== Texas Tech ===


== Awards ==
All-Big 12: DT Kelly Gregg


== 1998 NFL draft ==
The following Sooners were selected in the 1998 NFL draft.


== References ==

Guideposts is a spiritual non-profit organization publishing inspirational magazines, books and online material. Founded in 1945 by Norman Vincent Peale, Raymond Thornburg, and Peale's wife, Ruth Stafford Peale, with just one inaugural magazine, Guideposts has since grown to publish annual devotionals, books about faith, Christian novels, periodicals and a website.
The Guideposts organization is currently headquartered in Danbury, Connecticut, with additional offices in New York City.


== The Guideposts magazine ==
The March 1945 issue of Guideposts magazine was distributed to 10,000 households. There were four short articles, one for each week of the month. That inaugural issue contained a story by a World War I Ace, Eddie Rickenbacker, entitled I Believe In Prayer, which told of a plane crash during World War II that left eight men, in three life rafts, stranded on the Pacific Ocean.
Although a fire destroyed the magazine's circulation files in 1947, the publication was saved thanks to publicity from radio broadcaster Lowell Thomas, and an article in Reader's Digest. By 1952, there were 500,000 subscribers to the magazine and in 2018 circulation was more than 2,000,000 subscribers and receivers of the outreach gifting programs in the United States. The magazine is non-denominational, avoids politics and controversy, and for many years did not accept advertising.


== Frequency of magazine issues ==
For much of its history, Guideposts published twelve issues a year. Starting in 2019 the periodical was published ten times a year, with the June/July and December/January issues being two-month editions. Starting with the June/July 2021 issue Guideposts became a bimonthly magazine, with six issues being published each year. Each issue was expanded to 100 pages, an increase of 30 pages from earlier issues.


== Other Guideposts publications and website content ==
In addition to Guideposts there are now five other bi-monthly spiritual magazines, including Angels on Earth and All God's Creatures.
Guideposts publishes several genres of books, prayer guides, daily devotionals, and inspirational novels. The organization also provides daily devotions on their website.


== Writing contests ==
Guideposts sponsors two writing contests. The annual Guideposts Young Writers Contest awards scholarship funds to high school juniors and seniors whose personal stories are chosen for publication in the magazine. The Guideposts Writers Workshop Contest, held every other year, offers winners a free writing clinic with established authors in Rye, New York.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

A banker's acceptance is a document issued by a bank institution that represents a bank's commitment to make a requested future payment. The request will typically specify the payee, the amount, and the date on which it is eligible for payment. After acceptance, the request becomes an unconditional liability of the bank. Banker's acceptances are distinguished from ordinary time drafts in that ownership is transferable before maturity, allowing them to be traded in the secondary market.
A banker's acceptance starts with a deposit in the amount of the future payment plus fees. A time draft to be drawn on the deposit is issued for the payment at a future date, analogous to a post-dated check. The bank accepts (guarantees) the obligation to pay the holder of the draft, analogous to a cashier's check. The draft holder may hold the acceptance until maturity and receive the face value payment from the bank, or it may sell (exchange) the acceptance at a discount to another party willing to wait until maturity to receive the bank's promised payment.
Banker's acceptances are advantageous in transactions between unacquainted parties by reducing credit risk, and are used extensively in international trade for this reason. In an agreement whereby goods will be sold at a future date, if the buyer does not have an established relationship with or otherwise cannot obtain credit from the seller, a banker's acceptance enables it to substitute the bank's creditworthiness for its own.
Banker's acceptances are typically issued in multiples of US$100,000, with a term to maturity between 1 and 6 months.


== History ==
Banker's acceptances date back to the 12th century when they emerged as a means to finance uncertain trade, as banks bought bills of exchange at a discount. During the 18th and 19th centuries, there was an active market for sterling banker's acceptances in London.
When the United States Federal Reserve was formed in 1913, one of its purposes was to promote a domestic banker's acceptance market to rival London's to boost US trade and enhance the competitive position of US banks. National banks were authorized to accept time drafts, and the Federal Reserve was authorized to purchase certain eligible banker's acceptances. It did so until 1977, when the Federal Open Market Committee determined that the acceptance market no longer required central bank support.
In the People's Republic of China, banker's acceptance notes have become a shadow currency with captive banks of local governments issuing BA's to hide their debt levels.


== Banker's acceptance rates ==
Banker's acceptance rates are the market rates at which banker's acceptances trade, and are determined by current values relative to face values. They represent the return received if an acceptance were purchased today at the market price and held until the payment date.
All-in rates are banker's acceptance rates which include the bank's commission.


== Comparison with other drafts ==
When a draft promises immediate payment to the holder of the draft, it is called a sight draft. Cheques written on demand deposits are examples of sight drafts. When a draft promises a deferred payment to the holder of the draft, it is called a time draft. The date on which the payment is due is called the maturity date. In a case where the payee and drawee of a time draft are distinct parties, the payee may submit the draft to the drawee for confirmation that the draft is a legitimate order and that the drawee will make payment on the specified date. Such confirmation is called an acceptance — the drawee accepts the order to pay as legitimate. The drawee stamps ACCEPTED on the draft and is thereafter obligated to make the specified payment when it is due. If the drawee is a bank, the acceptance is called a banker's acceptance. Banker's acceptances are considered eligible collateral under the Treasury Tax & Loan (TT&L) Program under 31 CFR part 203


== Comparison of banker's discount with true discount (as per present value) ==
Often, banks were willing to buy time drafts from the party holding the acceptance, provided the issuer was creditworthy. If the party holding the acceptance sold the note before maturity, a discount value called the Banker's Discount was used to reduce the face value of the amount to be handed over to the claimant. Historically, the discount rate used by the Banks on such acceptances was FV × r × t (FV: Face Value, r: interest rate, t: time period). If this discount is applied, the value of the amount returned to the holder of the acceptance will mathematically be lower than the True Value (or Present Value) of the note. The difference is called Banker's Gain and represents the profits earned by the Bank in exchange for accepting the risk of default.


== See also ==
Banker's draft
Bond (finance)
Commercial paper
Forfaiting
Letter of credit


== References ==

Syron Vanes is a Swedish heavy metal band formed in 1980 in Arlöv, Sweden. Originally assembled by former Drummer Staffan Lindstedt and guitarist Anders Hahne they are a big part of the early Swedish heavy metal scene. "We just wanted to be rock stars Anders Hahne recalls"


== Biography ==
Syron Vanes were one of the first bands coming from Sweden inspired by the new wave of British heavy metal (NWOBHM). After a tour in Germany in 1983, Ebony Records owner and producer Darryl Johnston offered the band a record deal, and in 1984 their first album Bringer of Evil was released. The album sold well and Syron Vanes appeared in almost every rock magazine, hailed in the music press as the new big thing.
The second album Revenge was released in 1986 and was the last record under the wings of Ebony Records.
While most early-80s era metal bands disappeared Syron Vanes took a break but never disband. They continued to tour and to write songs, but no records were made until 2003 when the new album Insane was released. The new album got great reviews and was a new start for the band, whose tour culminated with a show at Sweden Rock 2003.
In 2004, Anders Hahne left the band to take a break.
In 2007, the album Property of.. was released and also got some good reviews. Syron vanes was a 3-piece band at this time. The album was mixed by Anders Hahne. He re-joined Syron Vanes in 2009 and the band began to write songs for a new album.
The album Evil Redux was released in 2013 and Syron Vanes once again enter the scene. Pete Pardo at Sea Of Tranquility wrote: "If you like classic metal sounds, chances are you're going to get a lot of mileage out of this CD. It's not hard to get into headbanging form with tracks such as "Sacrifice", "Only Hell Remains", "Hellion Child", "Heaven and Back", and the grinding "Bringer of Evil". Plenty of tasty, crunchy riffage throughout the album courtesy of Vahlstroem & Hahne, and with the spot on production it only raises the enjoyment factor".
Syron Vanes having enjoyed a more than 30-year career with no plans to retire.
By June 2014, Syron Vanes were very special guest for Jake E. Lee's Red Dragon Cartel on his UK tour. The concerts were at the O2 Academy Islington London and Rescue Rooms in Nottingham. In July 2014 they were opening for Sebastian Bach.
In early 2016, the band released their sixth album titled Chaos from a Distance, which was received well by Swedish press.


== Members ==
Current members

Anders Hahne – guitar (1980–present)
Rimbert Vahlstroem – guitar, lead vocals (1981–present)
Mats Bergentz – drums (2011–present)
Anders Sellborn – bass guitar (2013–present)
Former members

Staffan Lindstedt – drums (1980–2011)
Erik Briselius – vocals (1981–1986)
Jakob Lagergren – bass
Michel Strand – bass
Peter Espinoza – guitar
Anders Hansson – drums
Abbe Ahlbin – bass
Peter Christensson
Jocke Magnusson – drums
Mårten Hedener – drums
Dick Qwarfort – bass
Arne Sandved – bass
Ola Petersson – guitar (1980–1981)
Anders Lind – bass (1980–1981)


== Discography ==
Studio albums

Bringer of Evil (1984)
Revenge (1986)
Insane (2003)
Property of.. (2007)
Evil Redux (2013)
Chaos from a Distance (2016)


== References ==


== External links ==
Official Syron Vanes website

Hollywood Vice Squad is a 1986 American sex comedy film directed by Penelope Spheeris with music by Keith Levene of Public Image Ltd. It marked Robin Wright's film debut.


== Plot ==
Pauline Stanton, a mother, travels to Hollywood to find her daughter, Lori, working in the porn industry.


== Cast ==


== Reception ==
The film received mixed reviews. Janet Maslin of The New York Times described it as "decent, but dull."


== References ==


== External links ==
Hollywood Vice Squad at IMDb
Hollywood Vice Squad at Box Office Mojo
Hollywood Vice Squad at Rotten Tomatoes

Munish Chandra Joshi (30 March 1935 – 1 January 2007) was an Indian archaeologist who served as Director General of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) from 1990 to 1993. He was the head of the ASI when the Babri Masjid was demolished in 1992.
Joshi (1935–2007) devoted all his life to the study and research on art history, architecture, iconography, epigraphy, besides field archaeology. He left an indefatigable mark as an Indologist.


== Early life ==
Joshi was born at Haldwani in United Provinces on 30 March 1935. In 1956, he passed his M. A. in history from Lucknow University and joined the Archaeological Survey of India.


== References ==
"Obituary:M. C. Joshi" (PDF). MINUTES OF THE 33rd MEETING OF THE CENTRAL ADVISORY BOARD OF ARCHAEOLOGY, ARCHAEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF INDIA HELD AT HALL NO. 4, VIGYAN BHAWAN, NEW DELHI ON 31 st DECEMBER 2007. ASI.
Biography of M. C. Joshi at Jivani.org (in Hindi)

Moving Mountains is the second album by The Casket Lottery. The cover and insert images are from Katsushika Hokusai's woodblock prints from his Thirty-six Views of Mount Fuji series.


== Track listing ==
"Dead Dear" - 3:44
"Rip Van Winkle" - 2:44
"Vista Point" - 2:37
"Jealousy On Tap" - 2:51
"Thousand Oaks (Away From Home)" - 3:16
"Ancient Injury" - 3:26
"Stolen Honda" - 2:54
"Keep Searching" - 2:52
"Optimist Honor Roll" - 4:11


== Personnel ==
Nathan Ellis (Guitar, Vocals)
Stacy Hilt (Bass, Vocals)
Nathan Richardson (Drums)
Sean Ingram (Vocals on "A Dead Dear")


== References ==


== External links ==
Casket Lottery Info

Bram Goldsmith (February 22, 1923 – February 28, 2016) was an American real estate developer, banker and philanthropist. He served as the chief executive officer of City National Bank from 1975 to 1995, and as its chairman from 1975 to 2013. He became known as the "banker to the stars". He was a major philanthropist in Beverly Hills, California.


== Early life ==
Bram Goldsmith was born in 1923 in Chicago, Illinois, where he grew up. His father was Max Goldsmith and his mother, Bertha.
Goldsmith graduated from the University of Illinois, where he studied finance and business administration. After graduation, he served in the United States Army Air Corps for three and a half years, spending eighteen months in Burma.


== Career ==
Goldsmith served as president and chief executive officer of the Buckeye Realty and Management Corporation and the Buckeye Construction Company for twenty-five years. It was the largest privately owned real estate development company in California at the time. It built over thirty office towers in Beverly Hills, California. The loans for their construction were secured through the City National Bank.
Goldsmith was elected to the board of directors of City National Bank in 1964, when Alfred S. Hart was chairman and Benjamin N. Maltz (1901–1993), president. He served as its chief executive officer for twenty years, from 1975 to 1995, and as its chairman from 1975 to 2013. During his tenure, the bank's assets went from $600 million to $3.3 billion. He served as its chairman emeritus and Board until his death. He was sometimes referred to as the "banker to the stars," as the bank's clients under his included celebrities such as; Robert Redford, Paul Newman and Cher. In 1984, he was the highest paid banker in the United States with US$3.1 million, more than the salaries of the CEOs of Bank of America, Citibank and Chase Manhattan combined.
Goldsmith served on the board of directors of the Los Angeles Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco from 1981 to 1987. He also served on the board of directors of Wynn Resorts.


== Philanthropy ==
Goldsmith chaired the Los Angeles United Jewish Fund Campaign of 1965. He served as president of the Jewish Federation Council of Greater Los Angeles in 1969 and 1970. He also served as national chairman of the United Jewish Appeal from 1970 to 1974. Additionally, he served as Los Angeles Chairman and national Board member of the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
Goldsmith served as president of the Hillcrest Country Club from 1972 to 1975. He also served on the board of trustees of the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center from 1979 to 1999. From 1977 until his death in 2016, he served on the board of trustees of the Los Angeles Philharmonic. He was also chairman of the board of Region IV of the United Way and a member of its Central Board. Additionally, he served as the Founding Chairman of the Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts in Beverly Hills, California, until February 2013.  Therein the 500-seat Goldsmith Theater is named in his honor.


== Personal life ==
Goldsmith was married to Elaine Maltz, a sculptor and the daughter of Benjamin N. Maltz, the President of City National Bank. They resided above Sunset Boulevard in Beverly Hills, California and had a secondary residence in Newport Beach, California. Their youngest son, Russell Goldsmith, serves as chairman and chief executive officer of City National Bank. Their other son Bruce Goldsmith is a published novelist, playwright and screenwriter.


== Death and legacy ==
Goldsmith died on February 28, 2016, at the age of 93. The city of Beverly Hills named Bram Goldsmith Way in his honor on November 7, 2018.


== References ==

M is a 2018 French documentary film directed by Yolande Zauberman. It follows Menachem Lang, aged 35, as he returns to Bnei Brak to confront the men who abused him as a child, to discuss child abuse with other members of the ultra-Orthodox community and to attempt to reconcile with his parents.
In 2020 it received the César Award for Best Documentary Film.


== Plot ==


== Cast ==
Talleen Abu Hanna as Self


== References ==


== External links ==
M at IMDb

The Battle of Waj Rudh (Waay Rudha) was fought in 642/643 between the Rashidun Caliphate under Nu'man, and the Sasanian Empire under the Dailamite Muta, the Parthian Farrukhzad and Isfandiyar, and the Armenian Varaztirots. The battle was fought in Waj Rudh, a village in Hamadan. The location was precisely theorized and occurred on a road junction between Hamadan and Qazvin.
The Sasanians were defeated under heavy casualties, which included the death of Muta and Varaztirots. According to Tabari, the scale of the battle was said to have rivalled the battle of Nahavand, As according to G. Rex Smith, this means Waj al-Rudh was the greatest calamity of Sassanid after Nahavand and battle of al-Qadisiyyah.


== References ==


== Sources ==
Pourshariati, Parvaneh (2008). Decline and Fall of the Sasanian Empire: The Sasanian-Parthian Confederacy and the Arab Conquest of Iran. London and New York: I.B. Tauris. ISBN 978-1-84511-645-3.

Fatal Fury Special, known as Garō Densetsu Special in Japan, is a 1993 fighting game developed and published by SNK for the Neo Geo arcade and home platforms. The third installment of the Fatal Fury series, it is an updated version of Fatal Fury 2 (1992), adding four CPU-only bosses as playable characters, featuring three characters from its predecessor, and introducing combos while further balancing the gameplay. In addition, it featured Ryo Sakazaki as a secret boss character at the end of the single-player mode; the inclusion of Ryo inspired SNK to create The King of Fighters series.


== Gameplay ==

Fatal Fury Special is an updated version of Fatal Fury 2. It features many of the same graphics and gameplay, although some slight changes were made to the system, including faster game speed and an all new combo system. Unlike the previous Fatal Fury games, Special allows the player to combine their attacks. When an attack lands, the player will have a brief moment of invincibility. The number of Line Move Attacks have also increased; pressing the Light Punch or Light Kick button while the opponent is on an opposite line will perform a Low Line Jump Attack.
In single-player mode, the player fights all of the playable characters, beginning with the eight regular characters from the previous game, as well as Tung and Duck; the player gets to choose their first opponent. After the first ten opponents, the player will fight against Billy, Axel, Laurence, Geese, and Krauser, respectively. If the player wins every match in two rounds, they will be challenged by Ryo in a special "Dream Match".


== Characters ==
The character roster of Fatal Fury 2 returns. The four AI-only characters from the previous game (Billy Kane, Axel Hawk, Laurence Blood, and Wolfgang Krauser) can now be controlled by the player, and three characters from the original Fatal Fury (Tung Fu Rue, Duck King, and Geese Howard) return, increasing the number of playable characters to fifteen. Ryo Sakazaki, the protagonist of Art of Fighting, appears as a hidden opponent at the end of the Single Player Mode and is playable in the home versions. This cross-over inspired SNK to create The King of Fighters series. The first installment of this series, The King of Fighters '94, was released a year after Fatal Fury Special.


== Release ==


=== Home versions ===
In addition to the home versions of the Neo Geo and Neo Geo CD, conversions of Fatal Fury Special were made for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System (with Playmates Interactive Entertainment handling distribution in North America), Sega CD and Game Gear, as well as the PC Engine game console (in CD-ROM² format), and the X68000 and FM Towns computer platforms in Japan between 1994 and 1996. The game is included in 2007's Fatal Fury: Battle Archives Volume 1 for the PlayStation 2.
Fatal Fury Special for the Neo Geo was later released on the Wii Virtual Console in 2010. An emulation of the Neo Geo arcade game was also released for the Xbox Live Arcade in 2007. Furthermore, mobile versions were released for Android and iOS-based devices. Hamster Corporation re-released the game as part of their ACA Neo Geo series for the PlayStation 4, Xbox One, Nintendo Switch, Windows, Android and iOS. The Super NES version was re-released on the Nintendo Classics service on October 9, 2025.


== Reception ==

In Japan, Game Machine listed Fatal Fury Special on their October 15, 1993 issue as being the most-successful table arcade unit of the month. It went on to be Japan's third highest-grossing arcade game of 1994, just below Super Street Fighter II X and Virtua Fighter. In North America, RePlay reported that Fatal Fury Special was the seventh most-popular arcade game in December 1993. Play Meter also listed Fatal Fury Special to be the thirty-eighth most-popular arcade game at the time.
The Neo Geo version received positive reviews from critics. GamePro praised the variety of characters, the addition of new moves for the older characters, the combos, the detailed graphics, and the humorous touches to the backgrounds, though they felt the ability to jump between the foreground and background tended to be an annoyance. All four reviewers for Electronic Gaming Monthly (EGM) referred to it as "one of the best tournament fighting games out there" (with insignificant changes in wording between each reviewer). They praised the new characters, the improved backgrounds and animations.
GamePro gave the Game Gear version a rave review, stating though it has fewer characters and vastly inferior graphics and sounds compared to the Neo Geo version, it "is arguably the best handheld fighting game ever released" due to the responsive action and the inclusion of "extra elements you never thought you'd see in a handheld fighter". The magazine particularly applauded the presence of a combo system and the numerous special moves.
GamePro declared the Sega CD version "yet another Neo Geo arcade game that's been poorly converted for a home system". Although they complimented the inclusion of all the characters, moves, and music of the arcade version, they felt that the removal of key animation frames and distinctive background elements would make the conversion a big disappointment to anyone used to the arcade game. The four reviewers of Electronic Gaming Monthly instead judged it to be an overall solid conversion, remarking that the sound effects are weak and garbled, but the music, play controls, and graphics all replicate the original with reasonable accuracy.
All four reviewers of EGM complained about the severe echo effect in the audio of the SNES version, and two of them said that some of the moves are hard to pull off. However, they commented that the graphics, while a step down from the Neo Geo version, are still relatively sharp, and judged it an overall good conversion. GamePro was less pleased with the conversion, and remarked that the graphics and controls are vastly inferior to those of the Neo Geo version. They also criticized the special moves which are activated when a character is near death as a "cheesy way of evening things out between players of varying skill levels." Next Generation also gave it a negative review, though almost solely for its perceived lack of originality, saying that "sprite-based 2D fighting games are a dime a dozen, and in spite of the impressive Dolby Surround, all this one really has going it is sheer size: 15 characters ... and five special moves apiece, some of which are slick, but none of which you haven't pulled off it some other game of its ilk."
Jeff Gerstmann of GameSpot, reviewing the Xbox Live Arcade release, remarked the game is emulated well, and approved of the fact that it emulates the Neo Geo home version rather than the arcade version. He stated that the game itself is good compared to other Neo Geo fighters of its time, but would probably not appeal to modern players who are not already familiar with the Fatal Fury franchise. In a 1996 retrospective review, Maximum commented that Fatal Fury Special "tweaked the gameplay of Fatal Fury 2 overly very superficially, and the main selling point lay with the number of combatants". However, they praised the more hectic pace of the game, and gave it 3 out of 5 stars.


== Notes ==


== References ==


=== Bibliography ===
All About Garou Densetsu Special (ALL ABOUT 餓狼伝説スペシャル) (All About Series Vol. 3), a guide book from Dempa Shimbunsha;
Garou Densetsu Special (餓狼伝説スペシャル) (Gamest Extra No.106), a magazine-book from Shinseisha;
Garou Densetsu Special 4-Koma Ketteiban (餓狼伝説スペシャル 4コマ決定版) (Gamest Comics 6) (ISBN 4-88199-109-4), a 4-koma manga from Shinseisha;
Garou Densetsu Special Cancellation (餓狼伝説スペシャル キャンセレーション), a book from Hakosho;
Garou Densetsu Special Hisshō Kōryaku Hō (餓狼伝説スペシャル 必勝攻略法) (NEO-GEO Kanpeki Koryaku Series 1) (ISBN 4-575-28294-4), a guide book from Futabasha;
Garou Densetsu Special Hisshō Kōryaku Hon (餓狼伝説スペシャル 必勝攻略本) (Haoh Game Special 13) (ISBN 4-06-329213-4), a guide book from Kodansha;
Garou Densetsu Special Kanzen Kōryaku Hon (餓狼伝説スペシャル 完全攻略本), a SFC guide book from Tokuma Shoten;
Garou Densetsu Special Super Guide (餓狼伝説スペシャル スーパーガイド) (ISBN 4-89052-554-8), a SNES guide book from Kodansha.


=== Discography ===
Garou Densetsu Special (餓狼伝説スペシャル) (PCCB-00138), an original soundtrack by SNK Neo Sound Orchestra from Pony Canyon;
Garou Densetsu Special Image Album Part 1 (餓狼伝説スペシャル イメージアルバム パート1) (PCCB-00152) and Garou Densetsu Special Image Album Part 2 (PCCB-00155), a two-part arranged soundtrack from Pony Canyon.


=== Filmography ===
Garou Densetsu Special - Chōzetsu Butō Kai (餓狼伝説スペシャル 超絶武闘会) official VHS tape (PCVP-11355) and Laser Disc (PCLP-00494) from Pony Canyon.


== External links ==
Fatal Fury Special at GameFAQs
Fatal Fury Special at Giant Bomb
Fatal Fury Special at Killer List of Videogames
Fatal Fury Special at MobyGames

Sun Myung Moon and the Unification Church is a nonfiction book about the Unification Church and its founder and leader, Sun Myung Moon. It was written by Frederick Sontag, a professor of philosophy at Pomona College and a minister in the United Church of Christ., and published by Abingdon Press in 1977. Sontag spent 10 months visiting church members in North America, Europe, and Asia as well as interviewing Moon at his home in New York State.  The book also provides an overview of Unification Church beliefs.
In an interview with UPI Sontag compared the Unification Church (founded in 1954) with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and said that he expected its practices to conform more to mainstream American society as its members become more mature. He added that he did not want to be considered an apologist for the church but a close look at its theology is important: "They raise some incredibly interesting issues."


== References ==

Darwinia masonii, commonly known as Mason's darwinia is a plant in the myrtle family Myrtaceae and is endemic to Western Australia.


== Description ==
Darwinia masonii is an erect shrub typically growing to a height of 1–3 m (3.3–9.8 ft).  It has closely crowded and narrow grey-green leaves that are approximately 1 cm (0.39 in) in length and almost triangular in cross section. The inflorescence consists of several small, pendant, tubular red flowers approximately 3 cm (1.2 in) in diameter and 5 mm (0.20 in) long.  The flowers are surrounded by spreading pinkish pendulous bracts at the ends of small branchlets.  The bracts have a prominent midrib and are wider at the base and narrower toward the apex.  The style is about 1.5 cm (0.59 in) long. It blooms usually between April and November. 


== Taxonomy and naming ==
Mason's darwinia was first formally described in 1964 by Charles Gardner and published in the Journal of the Royal Society of Western Australia. The specific epithet (masonii) honours D. Mason collector of the type specimen.


== Distribution and habitat ==
Darwinia masonii has a restricted distribution, endemic to a small area in the Mt Gibson Ranges in the Wheatbelt region of Western Australia. This species is found generally on upper hillsides and ridges above 330 m (1,100 ft) on shallow clay soils over laterite, ironstone, granite or near creeks.


== Conservation status ==
Darwinia masonii is listed as a vulnerable species in Western Australia and in terms of the Australian Government Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999.


== External links ==
Mason’s Darwinia (Darwinia masonii) Recovery Plan


== References ==

William Staughton (January 4, 1770 – December 12, 1829) was a Baptist clergyman, educator, and music composer.  He was also a Chaplain of the United States Senate and the first President of Columbian College from 1821-1827, which is the original name and oldest division (1821) of The George Washington University.


== Life ==
Staughton was born on January 4, 1770, in Coventry, Warwickshire, England, to Sutton and Keziah Staughton.  In 1792, he graduated from Bristol Baptist College. He became a preacher in Northampton, and in 1792 helped found the Baptist Missionary Society.
Staughton moved to Charleston, South Carolina, in 1793.  After marrying Maria Hanson shortly after his arrival, he preached in Georgetown, South Carolina, for approximately two years.  In 1795, Staughton moved to York City and then to Bordentown, New Jersey, where he preached at a Baptist church, headed an academy, and was ordained a Baptist minister on June 17, 1797.  He continued his educational studies at Princeton University and received a Doctor of Divinity in 1801.  From 1805 to 1811, Staughton fulfilled pastorship positions at the First Baptist Church in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (1805–1811) and the Sansom Street Church (1811–1822). Concurrently, Staughton also acted as the designated tutor of the Baptist Education Society of America of the Middle States, was one of the founding members of the Bible Society at Philadelphia (now known as the Pennsylvania Bible Society), helped organize the Triennial Convention from 1814-1826, and served as the Principal of the Theological Department of the Triennial Convention in 1817.
When the Columbian College opened on January 9, 1822, William Staughton presided as president.  He also taught theological and classical courses at the college, including general history, belles lettres, rhetoric, moral philosophy and divinity, and pulpit eloquence.  During his tenure as president, Staughton simultaneously served as chaplain of the Congress for two sessions.  After five years serving as president, Staughton resigned due to the college's financial troubles and dispute among the board of trustees regarding the theology and classic departments.
In 1826, he was sent, along with Samuel Wait, future first president of Wake Forest University, to New Bern, North Carolina, to raise funds for the church.
William accepted a position as president of the Literary and Theological Institution of Georgetown College in Georgetown, Kentucky, in September 1829.  However, while making the journey to the college, Staughton died on December 12, 1829.  He was originally buried in the District of Columbia's Episcopal cemetery, but his body was later moved to Philadelphia's Sansom Street Church Cemetery.


== Works ==
In addition to his pastoral and educator careers, Staughton also wrote poems, sermons, discourses, lyrics, and hymns.  In fact, several of his hymns can be found in the Baptist Hymn Book of 1825.  He made literary contributions to The Latter Day Luminary and edited The Works of Virgil, as well as A Compendious System of Greek Grammar by Edward Wetenhall. In 1808, Staughton was also a member of the American Philosophical Society.
A collection of documents and artifacts associated with Staughton is maintained by the Special Collections Research Center at The George Washington University.  The collection includes correspondence, writings, photographs of paintings, and biographical information on the Staughton family.


== References ==


== External links ==
Guide to the William Staughton Collection, 1795-1964, Special Collections Research Center, Estelle and Melvin Gelman Library, The George Washington University

Valentin Rose (8 January, 1829 – 25 December, 1916) was a German classicist and textual critic.


== Personal life ==
Valentin Rose was the son of mineralogist Gustav Rose (1798–1873), and a nephew to famed mineralogist Heinrich Rose (1795–1864) and to the pharmacist Wilhelm Rose (1792–1867), of whom he published a brief remembrance (Berlin 1867). His great-grandfather was pharmacologist Valentin Rose the Elder (1736–1771), and his grandfather was Valentin Rose the Younger (1762–1807), who was also a noted pharmacologist. His younger brother was the surgeon Edmund Rose. In August 1872, he married Marie Poggendorff, the daughter of Johann Christian Poggendorff.


== Academic career ==
Rose received his doctorate from the Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität in Berlin in 1854. In 1855, he took a post at the Royal Library at Berlin, where he remained until his retirement in 1905.  Under his leadership, the library's Manuscript Department (which he headed from 1886), gained a leading international reputation.  He published catalogs of the collection between 1893 and 1905, and among the important discoveries made were texts in the history of medicine and in horticulture.


=== Aristotelian fragments ===

Rose's first edition of the fragments of Aristotle was Aristoteles Pseudepigraphus (1863).  As the title suggests, Rose considered these all to be spurious.  The third revised edition was published at Leipzig in 1886 with the title Aristotelis Qui Ferebantur Librorum Fragmenta. The engagement of Friedrich Nietzsche with this work has been described in the first chapter of James I. Porter, Nietzsche and the Philology of the Future, Stanford, 2000.


=== Other works ===
His other works (among them several editiones principes) include:

De Aristotelis librorum ordine et auctoritate, inaugural dissertation, 1854 (online)
Anecdota graeca et graecolatina: Mitteilungen aus Handschriften zur Geschichte der griechischen Wissenschaft, 2 vols., 1864-1870 (vols. 1–2, vol. 1, vol. 2)
Teubner editions of Vitruvius (1867), Anacreon (1868, 1876) Medicina Plinii and Quintus Gargilius Martialis (1875), Anthimus (1877), Cassius Felix (1879), Soranus and Muscio (1882), Theodorus Priscianus (1894), Gilles de Corbeil (1907)

Montagny-lès-Buxy (French pronunciation: [mɔ̃taɲi lɛ byksi], literally Montagny near Buxy) is a commune in the Saône-et-Loire department in the region of Bourgogne-Franche-Comté in eastern France.


== See also ==
Communes of the Saône-et-Loire department
Côte Chalonnaise


== References ==

Giorgos Naoum (Greek: Γιώργος Ναούμ; born 21 April 2001) is a Cypriot professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder for Cypriot club AEK Larnaca and the Cyprus national team.


== Club career ==


=== Early career ===
Born in Strovolos, Cyprus, Naoum grew up in the Antonis Naoum Football Academy. He then joined APOEL Nicosia's youth sector on 12 September 2013, playing 152 games and scoring 10 goals in all competitions between the under-13s and under-19s.
On 28 February 2019, Naoum joined the primavera (under-19) team of Padova in Italy.


=== AEK Larnaca ===
He moved to Cypriot First Division club AEK Larnaca in on 29 September 2019; Naoum sustained an ACL injury in November, and was sidelined for six months. He played nine league games in the 2020–21 season. In May 2021, Naoum's contract was extended until summer 2024.


== International career ==
Naoum represented Cyprus at under-17 level, scoring a goal (against Denmark) in 11 games. He also played for the Cyprus under-21 team at the 2023 UEFA European Under-21 Championship qualification.


== Personal life ==
Naoum is of Lebanese descent, and is a Maronite Christian. He took part in mandatory military service for Cyprus while playing football.


== Career statistics ==


=== Club ===
As of match played 22 September 2025


== Honours ==
AEK Larnaca

Cypriot Cup: 2024–25


== References ==

Jan Leonhard Camenisch is a Swiss research scientist in cryptography and privacy at Subzero Labs, and is the former CTO of DFINITY. He previously worked at IBM Research – Zurich, Switzerland and has published over 100 widely cited scientific articles and holds more than 70 U.S. patents.

Camenisch received an engineer's degree in electrical engineering in 1993 and a Ph.D. in computer science in 1998, both from ETH Zurich. He was an assistant professor in computer science at the University of Aarhus, Denmark, before joining the IBM Zurich Research Laboratory in 1999. Camenisch was born in the small Swiss village of Langwies.


== Awards ==
Camenisch was named Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) for contributions to privacy-enhancing cryptographic protocols in 2013 and Fellow of the International Association for Cryptologic Research for contributions to the theory and practice of privacy-preserving protocols and impact on government policy and industry in 2017.
He received the 2010 ACM SIGSAC Outstanding Innovation Award for outstanding theoretical work on privacy-enhancing cryptographic protocols and his leadership in their practical realization and a Technical Achievement Award from the IEEE Computer Society for pioneering theoretical work on privacy-enhancing cryptographic protocols and leadership in their practical realization in 2013.
He was elected as an ACM Fellow in 2018 for "contributions to privacy-enhancing cryptographic protocols and leadership in their practical realization".
In 2024, Jan received the Levchin Prize for Real-World Cryptography together with Anna Lysyanskaya for "the development of efficient Anonymous Credentials".


== References ==


== External links ==
Jan Camenisch on LinkedIn
Jan Camenisch publications indexed by Google Scholar
Jan Camenisch at DBLP

The 5th (4th East Prussian) Grenadier Regiment "King Frederick I" (German: Grenadier-Regiment „König Friedrich I.“ (4. Ostpreußisches) Nr. 5), formerly known as the 4th East Prussian Infantry Regiment (German: 4. Ost-Preußisches Infanterie-Regiment) was an infantry unit of the Prussian Army.


== History ==
In 1808, the regiment was formed from several infantry regiments of the Old Prussian Army during its reorganization into the New Prussian Army. The unit was initially formed as the 4th East Prussian Infantry Regiment, chiefly from several Old Prussian regiments, including the 3rd Battalion of the No. 4 Infantry Regiment Von Kalkreuth.
In 1812, during the French invasion of Russia, the regiment's 1st and Fusilier Battalions were assigned to the 2nd East Prussian Combined Regiment within General Yorck's auxiliary corps, although their involvement in terms of combat was limited. After the Convention of Tauroggen, General Yorck's corps was initially exempt from any military action against the French or Russians. On 5 January 1813, the Fusilier and 1st Battalions of the regiment arrived in Tilsit, and would replenish in Tilsit and Elbing, before crossing the Oder into Brandenburg in March.
At the end of March, Colonel August von Thümen received three musketeer battalions from the regiment to besiege the French forces at Spandau. These three musketeer battalions participated in the blockade of Spandau, as well as during multiple engagements in the assault on the French forces at Spandau during the closing stages of the siege. The regiment's 3rd Battalion formed Spandau's new garrison following the capitulation of the French forces at Spandau, while the 2nd Battalion escorted the French prisoners of war.
Then, as part of the 4th Division within the Prussian III Corps, the regiment participated in the Battle of Großbeeren, the Battle of Dennewitz, and the Battle of Leipzig. In 1814, the regiment was transferred to the 4th Brigade of the III Corps, and participated in the Battle of Laon as well as in skirmishes near Soissons. The regiment did not participate in the Hundred Days. Some time following the Napoleonic Wars, the regiment was renamed the 5th (4th East Prussian) Infantry Regiment, and the regiment was renamed once again to the 5th (4th East Prussian) Grenadier Regiment "King Frederick I" in 1889.


=== German Wars of Unification ===
During the Austro-Prussian War, the regiment was involved in the Battle of Tratenau as well as in the Battle of Königgrätz. During the Franco-Prussian War, the regiment was involved in the Battle of Borny-Colombey as well as during the Siege of Metz and the Battle of Noisseville.


=== First World War ===
Upon the outbreak of the First World War, the regiment mobilized on 2 August 1914. Additionally, it also formed a four-company replacement battalion two recruit depots. Initially, the regiment saw action on the Eastern Front as part of the 71st Infantry Brigade, which was attached to the 36th Infantry Division. The regiment initially participated in the Battle of Tannenberg and the First Battle of the Masurian Lakes, before being transferred to the Western Front in September 1915.
In the Western Front, the regiment participated in the Battle of the Somme as well as in the Battle of Arras. Following the German spring offensive in 1918, the regiment would be involved in defensive operations until the end of the war. In September 1918, the regiment received its own trench mortar company. After the war, the regiment marched back to Danzig, and began demobilization in December 1918.


== References ==

Real Emotional Trash is the fourth album by Stephen Malkmus and the Jicks. The album was released on March 4, 2008, by Matador Records. It was leaked on to the internet January 13, 2008. The album peaked at No. 64 on the Billboard 200.
The album features Quasi and Sleater-Kinney drummer Janet Weiss.
The album was recorded at SnowGhost Music in Whitefish, Montana, and  Wilco's Foxtrot Studio in Chicago, Illinois.


== Track listing ==
"Dragonfly Pie" - 5:08
"Hopscotch Willie" - 6:56
"Cold Son" - 3:43
"Real Emotional Trash" - 10:09
"Out of Reaches" - 4:51
"Baltimore" - 6:37
"Gardenia" - 2:54
"Elmo Delmo" - 6:42
"We Can't Help You" - 3:04
"Wicked Wanda" - 5:06
Bonus tracks
"Walk Into the Mirror" - 3:39
"Mr. Jolly" - 3:44


== Personnel ==
Stephen Malkmus - guitar, vocals
Joanna Bolme - bass, background vocals, synthesizer
Janet Weiss - drums
Mike Clark - keyboards, guitar, synthesizer


== Credits ==
Mixed by Nicolas Vernhes and The Jicks at the Rare Book Room, Brooklyn, New York
Recorded by TJ Doherty and Brett Allen (assistant)
Additional Recording by Sean Flora and Zach Okun


== Album covers ==
There are several cover designs, all using the same image, but with differences in the artist / band name (using different colours). Examples are STEPHEN MALKMUS & JICKS (with white and/or blue text), SM & JICKS, and MALKMUS & JICKS. The cover image incorporates elements from a 1973/4 issue of Graphis Annual.


== References ==

Phostria citrinalis is a species of moth in the family Crambidae. It was described by Herbert Druce in 1895. It is found in Mexico (Guerrero, Jalisco), Costa Rica, Guatemala and Panama.


== References ==

WAULT, short for weighted average unexpired lease term, is a measurement used in commercial real estate to quickly judge the value of contracted rents in a property, or more commonly, a portfolio of properties. It is one of the many key performance indicators (KPIs) used in the field.
A WAULT is the product of currently contracted rental income between now and the time the leases expire for any given tenant, summed across tenants, and then divided by the total annual income of the property or portfolio being studied. The result is expressed in years. A closely related measure is the WAULT to break, which sums the individual rents to their first break, the point where the tenants can legally leave their lease. The basic definition is also known as WAULT to expiry to make the distinction clear.
Depending on the market conditions, one might desire a high or low WAULT. For instance, if the rental market is strong and rents are rising, a low WAULT is desirable as that indicates that the current leases are going to expire or renegotiate in the short term and rental incomes are likely to rise. Conversely, in soft markets a long WAULT indicates steady income through lean periods.
A WAULT-like value can also be expressed using leased areas instead of rents. Depending on the property type this may be a better indication of the market, as some leases like anchor tenants and kiosks might skew the results on a purely rent basis. This measure is sometimes known as a WALE, for weighted average lease expiry, although this terminology is not as common as WAULT.


== References ==
Hofmann, Steffen (1 March 2016). "Key Performance Indicators III - Let's talk about lease length!".
"WAULT". QuotedData.

Thomas Jefferson High School (commonly referred to as Jefferson High School, Rockford Jefferson, or JHS) is a public coed four-year high school, in Rockford, Illinois, United States. The school serves the city of Rockford and the neighboring villages of Cherry Valley, Illinois and New Milford, Illinois. The school is named after the third President of the United States, Thomas Jefferson.


== Athletics ==

Jefferson High School's mascot is the J-Hawk. The official school colors are red, white, and gold.
Jefferson High School is a member of the Northern Illinois Conference (NIC-10) and participates in state championship tournaments sanctioned by the Illinois High School Association (IHSA).
The following competitive teams won their respective IHSA sanctioned state championship tournament:

Bowling (Boys): State Champion (2002–03)
Bowling (Girls): State Champion (2007–08)


== Activities ==
The following competitive teams won their respective IHSA sanctioned state championship tournament:

Chess: State Champion (1990–91)
Journalism: State Champion (2006–07)


== Notable alumni ==
Leonard Bell (1982) - defensive back, Cincinnati Bengals
Chad Knaus (1989) - crew chief, Jimmie Johnson, NASCAR Sprint Cup Series champion
Kathryn Layng (1978) - actress, Doogie Howser, M.D.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official Thomas Jefferson High School Website
Official Thomas Jefferson High School Alumni Association Website[link removed]
Thomas Jefferson High School Class of 1974 Alumni Website

Pachybrachis brevicollis is a species in the subfamily Cryptocephalinae ("case-bearing leaf beetles"), in the suborder Polyphaga ("water, rove, scarab, long-horned, leaf and snout beetles"). It is found in North America.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Arnett, R. H. Jr., M. C. Thomas, P. E. Skelley and J. H. Frank. (eds.). (21 June 2002). American Beetles, Volume II: Polyphaga: Scarabaeoidea through Curculionoidea. CRC Press LLC, Boca Raton, Florida ISBN 978-0-8493-0954-0.
Arnett, Ross H. (2000). American Insects: A Handbook of the Insects of America North of Mexico. CRC Press.
Richard E. White. (1983). Peterson Field Guides: Beetles. Houghton Mifflin Company.
Riley, Edward G., Shawn M. Clark, and Terry N. Seeno (2003). "Catalog of the leaf beetles of America north of Mexico (Coleoptera: Megalopodidae, Orsodacnidae and Chrysomelidae, excluding Bruchinae)". Coleopterists Society Special Publication no. 1, 290.

Leftfield are a British electronic music group formed in London in 1989, a duo of Neil Barnes (born 6 August 1960) and Paul Daley (the latter formerly of The Rivals and A Man Called Adam). The duo was influential in the evolution of electronic music in the 1990s, with Mixmag describing them as "the single most influential production team working in British dance music". As with many of their contemporaries, such as The Chemical Brothers and Fatboy Slim, Leftfield are notable for their use of guest vocalists in their works. Among them are Toni Halliday on "Original", John Lydon on "Open Up", Djum Djum on "Afro-Left", Earl 16 and Cheshire Cat on "Release the Pressure", and Grian Chatten of Fontaines D.C. on "Full Way Round". The term progressive house was coined to define their style, a fusion of house with dub and reggae.
There was a hiatus in recording and live performances between 2002 and 2010. When Barnes revived Leftfield, Daley declined to be involved, preferring to focus on his solo career. After touring for a few years, Barnes finished writing new material for a third Leftfield album, Alternative Light Source, which was released in 2015. In 2022, they released their fourth studio album, This Is What We Do.


== Formation ==
Neil Barnes' music career started off as a DJ at The Wag Club while simultaneously playing percussion on a sessional basis. In 1986, he joined the London School of Samba and played the bateria in the 1986 Notting Hill Carnival. Around 1989, inspired by Afrika Bambaataa, Barnes decided to try his hand at electronic music production, the results of which were the tracks "Not Forgotten" and "More Than I Know", released on Rhythm King Records offshoot label Outer Rhythm. For the remixes of these tracks, Barnes called upon Paul Daley, percussion player with A Man Called Adam and formerly a session musician for the Brand New Heavies and Primal Scream, appearing on their Dixie-Narco EP. Barnes and Daley had previously worked together as percussionists at The Sandals first club, Violets. Described by Barnes as "[t]he sound of 15 years of frustration coming out in one record", the piece was termed "Progressive House" by Mixmag and held significant prominence in nightclubs from 1991 onwards. As their mutual interest in electronic music became clear the pair decided that they would work instead upon Leftfield, once Barnes had extricated himself from his now troublesome contract with Rhythm King's Outer Rhythm subsidiary. The name Leftfield was originally used by Barnes for his first single, with editing/arranging and additional production undertaken by Daley. However, after this, Daley was subsequently involved in remixing "Not Forgotten" and thereafter in the creation of all of Leftfield's work until the band split up in 2002.
During this period, in which the band could not release their own music owing to the legal dispute with Rhythm King, the pair undertook remix work for React 2 Rhythm, I.C.P. (Ice Cool Productions), Supereal, Inner City, Sunscreem, Ultra Naté and provided two remixes to David Bowie's single "Jump They Say". Finally, once the problems with their former label had been sorted out, Leftfield were able to unveil their single "Release the Pressure".


== Albums ==


=== Leftism ===
Leftfield's first major career break came with the single "Open Up", a collaboration with Public Image Ltd and former Sex Pistols vocalist John Lydon, that was soon followed by their debut album, Leftism in 1995, blending dub, breakbeat, and house. It was shortlisted for the 1995 Mercury Music Prize but lost out to Portishead's Dummy. In a 1998 Q magazine poll, readers voted it the eightieth greatest album of all time, while in 2000 Q placed it at number 34 in its list of the 100 Greatest British Albums Ever. The album was re-released in 2000 with a bonus disc of remixes, and again in 2017 as a remastered version with eleven completely new remixes.


=== Rhythm and Stealth ===
Their second album, Rhythm and Stealth (1999) maintained a similar style, and featured Roots Manuva, Afrika Bambaataa and MC Cheshire Cat from Birmingham.  The album was shortlisted for the Mercury Music Prize in 2000 but lost out to Badly Drawn Boy's The Hour of Bewilderbeast.  It reached No. 1 in the UK Albums Chart. The album featured the song "Phat Planet" which featured on Guinness' 1999 advert, Surfer, and "6/8 War" featured on the Volkswagen Lupo Advert 'Demon Baby'. The track "Double Flash" featured in the PlayStation software game Music 2000. Leftfield split in 2002, with both Barnes and Daley planning to work on separate solo projects.


=== Reformation and Alternative Light Source ===
Leftfield headlined RockNess in Dores, Scotland in June 2010, Creamfields in Cheshire, England in August 2010, and played the final set on the main stage at Ireland's three-day festival, Electric Picnic in September. Further headline festival shows were announced in the coming weeks. Leftfield is now represented by Neil Barnes on keyboards and drum programming, with a rotating group of vocalists, MC Cheshire Cat, Adam Wren on engineering and programming and Sebastian 'Bid' Beresford on drums. Founding member Paul Daley declined to rejoin, focusing on his solo DJ career.
On 25 March 2015, the new single, "Universal Everything", was premiered on Annie Mac's BBC Radio 1 show. Shortly afterwards the new album was announced via the Leftfield website and social networks, along with UK tour dates for June 2015.
Alternative Light Source, Leftfield's first album in 16 years, was released on 8 June 2015 on Infectious Records. On 1 June 2015 the album premiere was streamed live on Twitter, coupled with conversation via hashtag #leftfieldstream.
"Head and Shoulders" features Sleaford Mods on vocals, and its stop-motion and animation hybrid video debuted on Pitchfork on 6 August 2015.


=== This Is What We Do ===
A fourth album was declared finished by Barnes via Twitter on 4 February 2022, later revealed to be titled This Is What We Do. It was released on 2 December 2022 on Virgin. It debuted at No. 18 on the UK Albums Chart, before dropping out of the Top 100.


== Commercial use of tracks ==
The song "Phat Planet" was used in the "Surfer" TV advertisement for Guinness, ranked number one in Channel 4's Top 100 Adverts list in 2000. "Phat Planet" was also used in the animated television series Beast Machines: Transformers, the simulation racing games F1 2000 by EA Sports and Racedriver GRID by Codemasters. The song "Open Up" was used for the intro and main menu in the game All Star Baseball 2000 by Acclaim Sports. "Swords" was used in an advertisement for the Irish mobile phone service Eircell. In addition, their song "Release the Pressure" was used on advertisements for the O2 mobile phone network at its launch, and the Kerry Group's Cheestrings snack in 2006. "A Final Hit" was featured on the Trainspotting soundtrack; the b-side "Afro Ride" was also featured on the soundtracks to both wipE'out" and wipE'out" 2097 although it did not appear on the album of the first game.
A white label release called "Snakeblood" was featured on the soundtrack of The Beach (2000). The song was found to have sampled OMD's "Almost" without permission.
The song "Storm 3000" has been used as the theme tune for the BBC television programme Dragons' Den.


== Live performances ==
 In June 1996, while the group was playing at Brixton Academy, the sound system caused dust and plaster to fall from the ceiling; subsequently, the group was banned from ever returning to the venue. The ban however was taken by the band as a ban on the sound system and not themselves, which was confirmed when Leftfield returned to Brixton again on Saturday 20 May 2000.
In November and December 2010, Leftfield did a series of dates around the UK and Ireland.  Friday 3 December's gig saw more plaster fall from Brixton Academy's ceiling.


== Discography ==


=== Studio albums ===


=== Compilation albums ===


=== Live albums ===


=== Singles ===


=== Remixes ===


=== Soundtracks and various compilations ===
From the Shallow Grave soundtrack
"Shallow Grave" (Featuring Christopher Eccleston)
"Release the Dubs"
From the Hackers soundtrack:
"Inspection (Check One)"
"Open Up" (featuring John Lydon)
From the wipE'out" soundtrack
"Afro Ride" (from the EP Afro-Left)
From 104.9 (An XFM Compilation)
"Praise"
From the Trainspotting soundtrack
"A Final Hit"
From the Trainspotting#2 soundtrack
"A Final Hit" (full-length version)
From the wipE'out" 2097 soundtrack
"Afro Ride" (from the EP Afro-Left)
From the Go soundtrack
"Swords" (featuring Nicole Willis) (Original Version)
From The Beach soundtrack
"Snakeblood"
From the Vanilla Sky soundtrack
"Afrika Shox"
From Beast Machines, and EA Sports F1 2000
"Phat Planet"
From Lara Croft: Tomb Raider
"Song of Life"


== References ==


== External links ==
Leftfield official website
Leftfield Facebook
Leftfield Twitter
Leftfield SoundCloud
Leftfield Spotify
Leftfield iTunes
Not Forgotten: unofficial website

Diospyros venosa is a tree in the family Ebenaceae. It is native to Southeast Asia, from the Maluku Islands to Myanmar. It provides raw material for handicrafts, traditional medicine and fuel.


== Description ==
Diospyros venosa grows as a tree, sometimes a shrub, from 5–20 metres (20–70 ft) tall. Inflorescences bear up to 25 flowers. The fruits are ellipsoid to roundish, up to 2.5 cm (1 in) in diameter.


== Taxonomy ==
The specific epithet venosa is from the Latin meaning 'veined', referring to the leaf.
D. venosa has an accepted infraspecific variety, D. venosa var. olivacea.
Within the genus Diospyros, there is the geographically heterogenous clade XI, with sister species from India, Sri Lanka, Southeast Asia and New Caledonia. D. venosa is a member along with D. ebenum, D. ehretioides, D. fasciculosa, D. maritima, D. pubicalyx, D. styraciformis, and D. wallichii.


== Distribution ==
Diospyros venosa var. venosa is native to the Maluku Islands, Borneo, Java, Sumatra, Peninsular Malaysia, Thailand, Cambodia and Myanmar.
The var. olivacea is endemic to Peninsular Malaysia.


== Habitat ==
Its habitat is lowland mixed dipterocarp forests, though it occurs up to 1300m elevation. In the Guning Aias Forest Reserve, Pahang, Malaysia, the Lowland dipterocarp forest has a 30-40m tall canopy of trees in the Anacardiaceae, Dipterocarpaceae, Euphorbiaceae, Fabaceae, Sapotaceae, and  Sterculiaceae families. Amongst the understorey plants is D. venosa var. venosa.
Within the Ayer Hitam Forest Reserve, Selangor, D. venosa grows as a tree to 10m height, throughout the reserves from the Lowland dipterocarp forest to the lower montane forest at 1300m.
The tree/shrub was one of the characteristic plants in the upper elevations (375-450m) ridge and slope community within the Seraya-ridge forest of the Semangkok Forest Reserve, Selangor, Malaysia. The seraya-ridge forest is a subtype of Hill dipterocarp forest, characterised by the dipterocarp Shorea curtisii and the palm Eugeissona tristis, the most common type of hill forest in Peninsular Malaysia.


== Vernacular names ==
In Malaysia it is known as kayu arang (a general name for Diospyros species). In the Khmer language, angɔt kmao and ângkât' khmau slëk thôm refer to the plant.


== Uses ==
Twigs from the plant are used as firewood. The ebony-like wood is used to make luxury knick-knacks. The roots are used in a traditional medicine decoction as a sedative, as well as a component of a tonic.
Villagers living on the plateau of Phnom Kulen National Park, in Svay Leu District, Siem Reap Province, northwestern Cambodia, use the root and wood chips of the shrub in their traditional medicinal practices to improve post-partum care and circulation, to treat malaria, and to treat sexually transmitted diseases in women.


== References ==

Jupp Hussels (1901–1986) was a German actor and comedian. He performed widely in cabaret, stage, film and radio. During the Second World War he appeared in the Tran and Helle series of short films, which featured propaganda for the German cause. Hussels played Helle the suaver, more knowledgeable of the two discussing events with the ignorant, apolitical Tran played by Ludwig Schmitz.


== Selected filmography ==
Das lustige Kleeblatt (1933)
Peter, Paul and Nanette (1935)
One Too Many on Board (1935)
The Abduction of the Sabine Women (1936)
Herbstmanöver (1936)
The Missing Wife (1937)
The Secret Lie (1938)
Der dunkle Punkt (1940)
Weltrekord im Seitensprung (1940)
A Beautiful Day (1944)
Heimat, deine Sterne (1951)
Drei Kavaliere (1951)
Once on the Rhine (1952)
The Imaginary Invalid (1952)
The Telephone Operator (1954)
Sun Over the Adriatic (1954)
The Forest House in Tyrol (1955)
Father's Day (1955)
Operation Sleeping Bag (1955)


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Buruma, Ian. Stay Alive: Berlin, 1939–1945. Atlantic Books, 2026.
Herzog, Rudolph. Dead Funny: Telling Jokes in Hitler's Germany. Melville House, 2011.
Pridham, Geoffrey & Noakes, Jeremy. Nazism, 1919–1945: The German Home Front in World War II.  University of Exeter Press, 1983.


== External links ==
Jupp Hussels at IMDb

Iliana Regan is an American chef and restaurateur. She ran the restaurant Elizabeth in Chicago from 2012 to 2020, receiving Michelin stars in each year. Since 2019, she has been the owner of The Milkweed Inn in Wetmore, Michigan.


== Early life and education ==
Regan was born (1979) in Merrillville, Indiana. Her mother was a scratch cook and her steelworker father was a gardener. She and her three older sisters grew up on a 10-acre farm. She studied chemistry at Indiana University before earning a degree in creative writing at Columbia College Chicago. In the spring of 2022 she earned an MFAW from the School of the Art Institute of Chicago.


== Career ==
Regan worked as a waitress and as a cook in several fine-dining restaurants in Chicago, including Trio, Schwa, and Alinea under Grant Achatz and Michael Carlson.
In 2008, she began selling microgreens and vegetables at farmer's markets, soon expanding her offerings to include pierogi. In 2010, she started a weekly supper club hosting 10 to 12 diners in her apartment. Through the supper club, Regan met several investors interested in supporting her opening her own restaurant.
Regan named her restaurant Elizabeth for her deceased sister, opening in Chicago's Lincoln Square in 2012. Elizabeth features home-grown and foraged ingredients, originally served multi-course prix fixe menus at three 8-seat communal tables in the style of Regan's supper club. She later condensed the menu and removed the communal tables. The restaurant was immediately well-received, earning a Michelin star in its second year.
Regan opened a second restaurant in 2017, Kitsune, with Japanese influences. It closed in 2019. In July 2020 she passed ownership of Elizabeth to her employees. 
In 2019, Regan and her wife Anna opened The Milkweed Inn, in Nahma Township in Michigan's Upper Peninsula. The Milkweed Inn hosts 10 guests each weekend April through October at $750 to $1750 per person for a "new gatherer" culinary experience. Accommodations include three rooms inside the inn, a platform tent and a small Airstream trailer. A 2019 weekend "starts with pierogi and smoked lake trout on Friday and peaks on Saturday with a 15-course dinner that might include wild blueberries in juiced wood sorrel, young milkweed pods fried until the insides turn as silky as cheese, and moose tartare."
Regan published a memoir in 2019 titled Burn the Place. The New York Times called it "perhaps the definitive Midwest drunken-lesbian food memoir." In it she describes incidents "before she got sober 10 years ago, ran away from the police in handcuffs, had sex in bar bathrooms and used her car key to administer bumps of cocaine." The New Yorker  review cited Burn the Place as more than just a chef memoir, writing "More rightly, it belongs on a shelf with the great memoirs of addiction, of gender ambivalence and queer coming-of-age..."
In January 2023 her second memoir, Fieldwork was published highlighting her years spent foraging and living in the woods.


== Recognition ==

In 2008 Chicago Magazine named Regan's pierogi the best in the city. In 2016, Regan was named one of Food & Wine magazine's best new chefs. She was also named to the Crain's Chicago Business 40 Under 40. David Chang called her one of the best chefs he has ever known.
Regan's book Burn the Place was longlisted for the National Book Award in 2019, the first time in 40 years a book in food had received such recognition since Julia Child in 1979. Smithsonian named Burn the Place to their list of 2019's ten best books about food.  Burn the Place won the Midland Author's prize in non-fiction Burn the Place also won the prize in non-fiction from Story Studio Chicago.


== Personal life ==
Regan is married to Anna Hamlin. They met while Hamlin was working with a wine distributor and managing the Elizabeth account. They reside at Milkweed Inn with their four dogs.


== References ==


== External links ==
Elizabeth Restaurant Archived 2019-06-07 at the Wayback Machine

Naval Consolidated Brig may refer to:

Naval Consolidated Brig, Chesapeake in Chesapeake, Virginia
Naval Consolidated Brig, Charleston in Hanahan, South Carolina
Naval Consolidated Brig, Miramar in San Diego, California

Vespina quercivora is a moth of the  family Incurvariidae. It is found in California.
The wingspan is 7–9 mm for males and 7–10 mm for females.
The larvae feed on Quercus agrifolia. Young larvae mine the leaves of their host plant.


== References ==

On Thursday 23 February 1950, the 1950 United Kingdom general election was held in England, to elect all 625 members of the House of Commons, with 506 constituencies being in England.
It was the first election to be held after the abolition of plural voting and university constituencies in addition to a reorganisation of constituencies by the House of Commons (Redistribution of Seats) Act 1949. It was also the first election to be held after a full 5-year term of a Labour government in office.
While the Labour Party registered a narrow majority of 5 seats in the House of Commons, the Conservative Party won 2 seats more than Labour in England (a phenomenon which has since occurred only in 1964). However, in terms of the voteshare, Labour led by nearly 2.5% in England. The wafer-thin majority of the Labour government meant that another election had to be called in October 1951 in which the Conservatives won a narrow majority in the Commons as well as in England, despite Labour winning its highest ever share of the vote (and total raw votes).
The turnout registered in this election remains the highest for any election in the post-war era.


== Results ==


== See also ==
1950 United Kingdom general election in Scotland
1950 United Kingdom general election in Wales
1950 United Kingdom general election in Northern Ireland


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Nicholas, H. (1951). The British general election of 1950. London: Macmillan
"1950: Labour majority slashed". BBC News. 5 April 2005.
"Masters No More: Clement Attlee and the 'Revolt of the Suburbs'". The Critic. 23 February 2021

Philip Robert Morris (born 15 May 1952) is a New Zealand former cricketer. He played 11 first-class matches for Otago during the  1975–76 and 1976–77 seasons.
Morris was born at Dunedin in 1952 and educated at King's High School in the city. He played for an Otago under-23 team during the 1974–75 season before making his senior representative debut for the team the following season, taking two wickets on debut against Wellington at the Basin Reserve in December 1975 after breaking in to the team following an injury to Larry Eckhoff.
Going on to play four more matches for Otago during the season and six during the following season, as well as playing a single List A match for the team, Morris took a total of 16 first-class wickets. He played club cricket for Albion Cricket Club in Dunedin and coached at the club, including helping to coach future New Zealand players Brendon and Nathan McCullum.


== References ==


== External links ==
Philip Morris at Cricinfo

Wilhelm Gericke, also known as William Gericke, (April 18, 1845 – October 27, 1925) was an Austrian-born conductor and composer who worked in Vienna and Boston.
He was born in Schwanberg, Austria. Initially he trained in Graz to be a schoolmaster. He was unsuccessful, although he did get a position playing violin in a theatre orchestra. In 1862 he entered the Vienna Conservatory, where he studied under Dessoff. Leaving the conservatory in 1865, he became kapellmeister of the theatre at Linz, directing opera there and in Vienna. In 1874, he became second kapellmeister and chorus master at the Vienna Court Opera, where his lifelong friend Hans Richter was first kapellmeister. There he gave the Viennese premiere of Richard Wagner's Tannhäuser.  He also made a name for himself producing French and Italian operas. On the retirement of Brahms from the conductorship of the Vienna Society (German: Wiener Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde) concerts (German: Gesellschaftskonzerte) in 1880, Gericke succeeded him, and also became the conductor of its choral society (German: Singverein).
His fame as a conductor, and particularly as a drillmaster, induced Henry Lee Higginson of the Boston Symphony Orchestra (BSO) to secure him as its leader after attending one of Gericke's concerts in Vienna.  He spent two periods in the United States conducting the BSO, 1884–1889 and 1898–1906. During his first stay, he eliminated the lighter music that his predecessor had allowed in the programs, scheduled extra rehearsal time, and hired more foreign musicians. The orchestra improved noticeably in the quality of its playing.
In 1884, he was made an honorary member of the Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde in Wien. In 1889, for health reasons, he returned to Vienna, and to the leadership of the Gesellschaftsconcerte, but resigned again in 1895. He and the BSO parted company amicably in 1906 due to the BSO's failure to meet his expectations for a new contract. He died in Vienna.


== Works ==
He published a number of works for orchestra, also pianoforte works, and some chamber music.  Among his works are:

Maiglöckchen (May bells)
Muntrer Bach, was rauscht du so? (Merry brook, what stirs you so?)
Wach auf, du schöne Träumerin (Wake up, beautiful dreamer)


== Notes ==


== References ==
This article contains translations from the corresponding article on German Wikipedia, visited 6 July 2011.
Gilman, D. C.; Peck, H. T.; Colby, F. M., eds. (1906). "Gericke, Wilhelm" . New International Encyclopedia (1st ed.). New York: Dodd, Mead.
Rines, George Edwin, ed. (1920). "Gericke, Wilhelm" . Encyclopedia Americana.

Hybodus (from Greek: ύβος hybos, 'crooked' and Greek: ὀδούς odoús 'tooth') is an extinct genus of hybodont. Numerous species have been assigned to Hybodus spanning a large period of time, and it is currently considered a wastebasket taxon that is 'broadly polyphyletic' and requires reexamination. It has been suggested that Hybodus sensu stricto only consists of two species, the type species H. reticulatus and H. hauffianus, both known from the Early Jurassic of Europe, with H. obtusus from the Middle-Late Jurassic of Europe possibly also being a true species of Hybodus.


== Description ==

Hybodus species typically grew to about 2 metres (6.6 ft) in length, with larger specimens of H. hauffianus reaching about 3 metres (9.8 ft). It possessed a streamlined body shape similar to modern sharks, with two similarly sized dorsal fins. As in other Hybodontiformes, dentinous fin spines were present on the dorsal fins of Hybodus, which in this genus exhibit a rib-like ornamentation located towards the tip of the spine, with rows of hooked denticles present on the posterior side. The males possessed claspers, specialized organs that directly insert sperm into the female, and which are still present in modern sharks.


== Species ==

Several Hybodus species, including H. butleri, H. rajkovichi, and H. montanensis, were later reassigned to Meristodonoides. H. basanus and H. fraasi are now included in the genus Egertonodus, though the placement of the latter in the Egertonodus is considered tentative, due to the strong differences in tooth morphology between the two species. H. obtusus represents a junior synonym of Asteracanthus ornatissimus. Multiple Triassic species previously assigned to Hybodus including H. microdus, H. yohi, H. zuodengensis and H. bugarensis are not hybodonts and most likely belong to an entirely separate order Synechodontiformes. Two new species from China, H. xinzhuangensis and H. chuanjieensis are named in 2018, and H. houtienensis is considered, while other species from China and Thailand are no longer part of the genus and requires reassessment. However, the only two species that should be retained within the genus Hybodus are the type species H. reticulatus and the other species H. hauffianus. The problem is that even those two species require reassessment.


== Paleobiology ==

Hybodus is thought to have been an active predator which was capable of consuming swiftly moving prey, probably predominantly cephalopods and, to a lesser extent, fish. Based on fossilized stomach contents, it has been proposed that Hybodus was a more active hunter than its close relatives like Asteracanthus, which likely fed on benthic prey. A preserved specimen of Hybodus hauffianus has been found with over 100 belemnite (a type of extinct squid-like cephalopod) rostra (hard mineralized internal elements) in its stomach, which may have resulted in its death. Hybodus' varied dentition would have allowed it to opportunistically exploit a variety of food sources; sharper teeth would have been used to catch slippery prey (such as fish), while flatter teeth probably helped them crush shelled animals (such as snails, sea urchins, crustaceans, and shellfish). The large spines on the first and second dorsal fins were likely defensive structures intended to protect against attacks from Hybodus' own predators.


== References ==


== Sources ==
Haines, Tim; Paul Chambers (2006). The Complete Guide to Prehistoric Life. Canada: Firefly Books. p. 89.
Diffily, Deborah; Karen Carr (2004). Jurassic Shark. HarperCollins Publishers.


== External links ==
High-resolution and stereoscopic photographs of the type specimen of H. reticulatus, provided by the GB3D Type Fossils project

Gheorghe Brega (born 25 September 1951) is a Moldovan physician and politician who was the acting Prime Minister of Moldova from 30 October 2015 to 20 January 2016. He served as Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs of Moldova from 30 July 2015 to 30 May 2017, and was a Member of the Moldovan Parliament from 2009 to 2015.


== Biography ==
Born in the village of Drepcăuți, Briceni District, Soviet Moldova, Brega graduated from Nicolae Testemiţanu State University of Medicine and Pharmacy in Chişinău in 1974. He was a member of the Parliament of Moldova from 2009 to 31 July 2015.
On 30 October 2015 he was named as acting prime minister (locum tenens), until Pavel Filip was chosen as a permanent replacement for Valeriu Streleț, and formed a new cabinet in which Brega continued his work as Deputy Prime Minister for Social Affairs. He was the first and last member of the Liberal Party (PL) to serve as prime minister in any capacity, even if acting.


== Honours ==
National Order Star of Romania, rank of Grand Officer (2014)


== References ==


== External links ==
Gheorghe BREGA official site
Gheorghe Brega pe site-ul Parlamentului Republicii Moldova
Gheorghe Brega pe site-ul Parlamentului Republicii Moldova [old version]

Ilchester Town Hall is a municipal building on High Street in Ilchester, Somerset, England. The structure serves as the offices and meeting place of Ilchester Parish Council and is a Grade II listed building.


== History ==
The first building on the site was a shire hall which dated from the 13th century, when Ilchester was the county town of Somerset. In the 17th century, it was replaced by a new structure, parts of which are incorporated into the west end of the current building.
The current building was designed in the neoclassical style, built in rubble masonry and was completed in 1816. The design involved an asymmetrical main frontage of five bays facing onto the Town Square. The central bay featured a large round headed arch with voussoirs and a keystone containing a doorway. To the left, there were two bipartite windows and, on the first floor, there were five sash windows. At roof level, there was a parapet and a hipped roof. Internally, the principal room was an assembly room, which featured a vaulted ceiling, on the first floor.
Ilchester had a very small electorate and a dominant patron, Sir William Manners, which meant the UK Parliament recognised it as a rotten borough. The right to elect members of parliament was removed by the Reform Act 1832. The building was used as a courthouse until 1843 and as the county gaol until 1846.
The borough council, which had met in the council chamber, was abolished under the Municipal Corporations Act 1883. Its assets, including the town hall, were transferred to a specially formed entity, the Ilchester Town Trust, in 1889. Following local government reorganisation in 1974, it became the meeting place of Ilchester Parish Council. In 1989, Ilchester Museum opened in the Town Hall House, immediately behind the town hall. Since then, the town hall has continued serving as a community event venue.


== References ==

Fellows Road is a two-lane road in the London Borough of Camden, just north of Central London. It is on the Eton College estate, a series of roads and houses built to replace the area destroyed in World War II, on land owned by Eton College. The road was originally built in 1873 and finished between 1874 and 1894, and named after the college's fellows.
Between Fellows Road and the parallel Adelaide Road is the Chalcots housing estate, which has four tower blocks: Dorney, Bray, Burnham and Taplow (all named after places near Eton). Entrances to the road can be accessed via Merton Rise, King's College Road, Winchester Road and Primrose Hill Road. The road also has a number of small closes, including Brocas Close, Tobin Close, Huson Close, Briary Close and Hornby Close.


== Appearance ==
The road has many large, grey brick houses, decorated with Corinthian capitals. These are from the Victorian era and were designed by Samuel Cumming. Unlike the south side of the road, these structures were mostly undamaged from the Blitz in World War II (though, the east part of the road was destroyed and had to be rebuilt as part of the Chalcots Estate development). When entering from the east direction, one can see that the left side of the road is decorated by many brown and white modern, cube shaped households. These were constructed after World War II, where the south side of the road was bombed in an air raid by the Blitz. Construction finished in 1968 and the south part of the road was named Chalcots Estate.


== References ==

The 2012–13 season was Sydney Football Club's fifth season, in the W-League. Sydney FC finished 4th in their W-League season, finishing as winners in the Grand Final.


== Players ==

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


== Transfers ==


=== Transfers in ===


=== Transfers out ===


== Competitions ==


=== Overall record ===


=== W-League ===


==== League table ====


==== Results summary ====


==== Results by round ====


==== Matches ====
The league fixtures were announced on 18 September 2012.
  Win
  Draw
  Loss


==== Finals series ====


== Statistics ==


=== Appearances and goals ===
Includes all competitions. Players with no appearances not included in the list.


=== Disciplinary record ===
Includes all competitions. The list is sorted by squad number when total cards are equal. Players with no cards not included in the list.


=== Clean sheets ===
Includes all competitions. The list is sorted by squad number when total clean sheets are equal. Numbers in parentheses represent games where both goalkeepers participated and both kept a clean sheet; the number in parentheses is awarded to the goalkeeper who was substituted on, whilst a full clean sheet is awarded to the goalkeeper who was on the field at the start of play. Goalkeepers with no clean sheets not included in the list.


== References ==

Achen Amar Muktar (Bengali: আছেন আমার মোক্তার, transl. There Is My Attorney) is a Bengali language song from the 1978 Bangladeshi film Golapi Ekhon Traine, which won numerous national awards including Best Film. The song was written by Gazi Mazharul Anwar, composed by Alauddin Ali and sung by Syed Abdul Hadi. Veteran actor Anwar Hossain performed with the song. The song gained popularity with the audience after release of the film.


== Release ==
The song was released as part of the soundtrack album of Golapi Ekhon Traine, which was released on September 5, 1978, by the music publisher sur jhonker through Gramophone vinyl record (number- SJ-221119).
The original song was so popular at that time, even after 38 years of release, in 2016 music director Kaushik Hossain Taposh re-released that song. Original singer Syed Abdul Hadi sung it this time also. Wind of change music show of Bangladeshi television Channel Gaan Bangla broadcast that song and received positive feedback, on 14 September 2016 this song was also published on YouTube.


== Accolades ==
Syed Abdul Hadi and Alauddin Ali received National Film Awards for this song in 1979. it was the first time for both recipients to receive a National Film Award.


== References ==


== External links ==
Achen Amar Muktar on Discogs

The Western Hills (Chinese: 西山; pinyin: Xīshān) are the hills and mountains in the western part of Beijing.


== Geography ==
Being an extension of the Taihang mountain range from the Hebei Province, the Western Hills cover approximately 17% of the Beijing municipality, including most of the Mentougou and Fangshan Districts as well as parts of Changping, Haidian, and Shijingshan. The elevation of the Western Hills range is between 100 m to over 1900 m above sea level and is visible from the city on clear days. A mix of deciduous and coniferous forests and highland meadows cover much of the Western Hills. Mountain streams feed into the Yongding and Juma Rivers, which flow through the Western Hills to irrigate the plains of Beijing. Coal is mined in Fangshan and Mentougou Districts. Natural and historical points of interest include river gorges, and hot springs, as well as temples, historic homes, secluded retreats and ancient ruins.
Also known as the Western Hills Scenic Area, the area has long been used as a retreat by Chinese scholars, religious men, and members of the government and civil service. Nearest to Beijing's Haidian District is the Fragrant Hills Park. Nearby is the Beijing Botanical Garden and Temple of Azure Clouds. The Wofo Temple, which has a giant reclining Buddha statue, is located on the grounds of the botanical gardens. To the northwest of the Fragrant Hills Park are Jiufeng (Vulture Peak) Forest Park (鹫峰森林公园), Dajue Temple, and Fenghuanling (Phoenix Ridge) Scenic Area.
South of the Fragrant Hills Park is Badachu (八大处; literally "eight great sites") in Shijingshan District, which is named after eight Buddhist temples and monasteries. The Western Hills of Shijinghan are also home to the Laoshan Mountain Bike Course, where the mountain biking competition of the 2008 Summer Olympic Games was held.
Fossils of the Peking Man were discovered in the caves of Dragon Bone Hill near Zhoukoudian in Fangshan District.
The Western Hills also houses an underground command center of the Chinese military, a secret bunker-like underground facility built with the assistance of the USSR in the 1950s, which now serves a purpose similar to the United States Military's Pentagon.
Mao Zedong briefly lived in the Western Hills, and the Politburo of the Chinese Communist Party retreated there briefly in 1989.


== Western Hills Group ==

The Kuomintang (KMT) also had a secret group named Western Hills, established in 1925. Revolutionary Sun Yat-sen's coffin was kept there, with the group's members being Buddhist, believing that the presence of Sun Yat-sen's body could bless them.
The group had a political goal of ousting the Communist Left, headed by Mikhail Borodin, from the KMT.


== See also ==
Geography of Beijing
10 spirits from Western Hills (西山十戾) Taoism stories
Xishan Society


== References ==


== External links ==
Western Hills page
Article about the geology of the Western Hills

Gaoxinqu Station (Chinese: 高新区站), literally Hi-tech Industrial Development Area Station in English, is a station of Line 3 of the Tianjin Metro. It started operations on 1 October 2012.


== References ==

 Media related to Gaoxinqu Station at Wikimedia Commons

Tixagevimab/cilgavimab, sold under the brand name Evusheld, is a combination of two human monoclonal antibodies, tixagevimab (AZD8895) and cilgavimab (AZD1061) targeted against the surface spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 used to prevent COVID-19. It is being developed by British-Swedish multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology company AstraZeneca. It is co-packaged and given as two separate consecutive intramuscular injections (one injection per monoclonal antibody, given in immediate succession).


== Development ==
In 2020, researchers at Vanderbilt University Medical Center discovered particularly potent monoclonal antibodies, isolated from COVID-19 patients infected with a SARS-CoV-2 circulating at that time. Initially designated COV2-2196 and COV2-2130, antibody engineering was used to transfer their SARS-CoV-2 binding specificity to IgG scaffolds that would last longer in the body, and these engineered antibodies were named AZD8895 (tixagevimab) and AZD1061 (cilgavimab), respectively (and the combination was called AZD7442).
To evaluate the potential of the antibodies as monoclonal antibody based prophylaxis (prevention), the 'Provent' clinical trial enrolled 5,000 high risk but not yet infected individuals and monitored them for 15 months. The trial reported that those receiving the cocktail showed a 77% reduction in symptomatic COVID-19 and that there were no severe cases or deaths. AstraZeneca also found that the antibody cocktail "neutralizes recent emergent SARS-CoV-2 viral variants" including the Delta variant, and the Omicron variant.
In contrast to pre-exposure prophylaxis, the Storm Chaser study of already-exposed people (post-exposure prophylaxis) did not meet its primary endpoint, which was prevention of symptomatic COVID-19 in people already exposed. AZD7442 was administered to 1,000 volunteers who had recently been exposed to COVID.


== Society and culture ==


=== Legal status ===
In October 2021, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the European Medicines Agency (EMA) started a rolling review of tixagevimab/cilgavimab, which is being developed by AstraZeneca AB, for the prevention of COVID-19 in adults. It was approved for medical use in the European Union in March 2022.
Also in October 2021, AstraZeneca requested emergency use authorization for tixagevimab/cilgavimab to prevent COVID-19 from the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
In November 2021, Bahrain authorized it for emergency use.
In December 2021, the US FDA granted emergency use authorization (EUA) of this combination to prevent COVID-19 (before exposure) in people with weakened immunity or who cannot be fully vaccinated due to a history of severe reaction to coronavirus vaccines. and in certain people aged 12 years of age and older weighing at least 40 kilograms (88 lb). The product is only authorized for those individuals who are not infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus and who have not recently been exposed to an individual infected with SARS-CoV-2. The EUA was revoked in January 2023.
In March 2022, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorization for the medicinal product Evusheld, intended for the pre-exposure prophylaxis of COVID-19 in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and older weighing at least 40 kilograms (88 lb). The applicant for this medicinal product is AstraZeneca AB. It has since been granted approval for use in the UK and in the European Union.
In January 2023, the FDA revised the EUA for Evusheld to limit its use to when the combined frequency of non-susceptible SARS-CoV-2 variants nationally is less than or equal to 90%. Based on this revision, Evusheld is not authorized for use in the US.


== References ==


== External links ==

"Tixagevimab". Drug Information Portal. U.S. National Library of Medicine. Archived from the original on 15 October 2021.
Clinical trial number NCT04625972 for "Phase III Double-blind, Placebo-controlled Study of AZD7442 for Post-exposure Prophylaxis of COVID-19 in Adults (STORM CHASER)" at ClinicalTrials.gov
Clinical trial number NCT04625725 for "Phase III Double-blind, Placebo-controlled Study of AZD7442 for Pre-exposure Prophylaxis of COVID-19 in Adult. (PROVENT)" at ClinicalTrials.gov

What Are You Waiting For is the third album of Dutch band Krezip. It is the first album released with their new label Sony BMG. The album peaked at #1 in the Dutch Mega Album Top 100.


== Album information ==
In 2004 Krezip lost their record label. This was because Warner Music BeNeLux had to drop out all their national artist. Very soon after the drop out Krezip got another record deal with Sony BMG, where this was their first release.
In addition to make the album, Jacqueline Govaert (singer of the band) flew to the United States to write for the album with several writers. The album is also produced in the U.S. with the famous producer-couple Wizardz of Oz (Andrew Bojanic and Liz Hooper), who also worked with artist like Avril Lavigne and Britney Spears. All the songs are written by Jacqueline Govaert with co-writers.
The song "Same Mistake" was used in the Dutch movie Schnitzel Paradise (Het Schnitzelparadijs) which became a huge hit in the Netherlands.


== Singles ==
Out Of My Bed
Don't Crush Me
I Apologize


=== Singles charts ===


== Track listing ==


== Charts ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Live performance of Out Of My Bed on YouTube

The Battle of Fayal was fought on September 26–27, 1814, during the War of 1812. It occurred near the Portuguese village of Horta on Faial Island, in the Azores. A Royal Navy squadron on its way to Jamaica and Louisiana attacked the American privateer General Armstrong while she was at anchor in Horta. After repulsing two attacks from armed boats sent by the squadron, the Americans scuttled General Armstrong the following morning to prevent its capture. The British squadron subsequently attempted to land on Faial Island to continue fighting the Americans, but were prevented from doing so by the island's governor and the American consul-resident. The squadron eventually set sail for Louisiana.


== Background ==
In late 1814, the 74-gun HMS Plantagenet, commanded by Captain Robert Lloyd, set sail for the West Indies with the 38-gun frigate HMS Rota and the 18-gun brig-sloop HMS Carnation as part of the planned British invasion of Louisiana. On the night of September 26, the three ships were in the Fayal Roadstead when they spotted the American privateer General Armstrong, a 7-gun brig with a complement of approximately 90 men. She was commanded by Captain Samuel Chester Reid. Lloyd ordered a pinnace under Lieutenant Robert Faussett be sent from Plantagenet to ascertain the nationality of General Armstrong. When the British came within gun range of the American vessel and requested the crew identify themselves, Reid declared he would open fire if they came any closer.


== Battle ==

Faussett was unable to stop his boat in the rough tides, and it drifted too close to General Armstrong. The Americans proceeded to open fire with their 9-pound long guns at the pinnace. Two men were killed and seven others wounded before the pinnace could retire out of range. Carnation immediately moved in and anchored in front of the American ship to begin negotiations. When discussions failed, and since General Armstrong had fired the first shot in a neutral port, Carnation cut her cable and lowered four boats filled with boarding parties towards General Armstrong,  while Reid moved his ship closer to shore. The first boarding attempt occurred at around 8:00 pm. When the Americans observed the incoming boats they maneuvered again to receive them. In the following engagement, Carnation was kept out of range by American fire and the boats were repulsed with a loss estimated by Reid at 20 men killed and 20 more wounded. One American was killed and another wounded.
At about 9:00 pm, 12 boats armed with carronades and filled with 180 officers, sailors and marines from Plantagenet and Rota were towed into battle by Carnation, which stopped out of the range of General Armstrong. The boats divided into three divisions for another attack. Lieutenant William Matterface commanded the boats and Carnation provided covering fire. Lloyd anchored Rota and Plantagenet a few miles away, and neither participated in the engagement. Just after 9:00 pm, the British boats advanced, but accurate American fire and strong currents kept Carnation from closing the range and she was damaged. The boats did not reach General Armstrong until about midnight, largely because of the current but also due to where Lloyd had stopped his ships. While the Americans waited, they offloaded three of their cannon and erected a shore battery. When the British arrived, they attempted to board General Armstrong. However, the Americans sank two of the attacking boats before they could get close, captured two more, and killed several boarders with swords and muskets at point-blank range. Matterface and several other officers were killed, resulting no serviceman of sufficient rank being capable of leading the remaining attackers.

Elias Jose Ribeiro, the governor of Fayal, described the British casualties in a letter to the American ambassador to Portugal, Thomas Sumter Jr.: The loss of the British was most extraordinary; their consul told me that he knew the list of the killed and wounded to amount to one hundred and sixteen, and it is supposed to have been much greater, for I myself saw three of the twelve boats without one person in them, and as they retreated I saw that one had only two on board, another only five, others only seven or eight. Of the killed were four officers; of the wounded few survived, as they were all wounded dangerously. I only wondered that any escaped to tell the story; for no attack could have been conducted in worse order.

The British suffered in total 36 men killed and 93 wounded, while the Americans had lost two killed and seven wounded, including Reid who was hit with a musket ball. The main action had lasted over a half hour, during which Reid's men had fired nails, knife blades, brass buttons, and other makeshift projectiles from their cannon, which caused severe injuries to those they wounded. Following the failure of their attack, the British boarding parties slowly rowed back to their ships, reaching them at 2:00 am on September 27. Lloyd's response to the attack's failure was to send Carnation back to destroy General Armstrong after daylight but when she arrived, American fire caused further damage, leading Carnation to break off her attack. Carnation returned again but Reid had already chosen to scuttle his ship by firing one of his swivel guns straight through the hull. The vessel was boarded while it sank and the British set the ship's sails on fire before leaving.


== Aftermath ==
Reid and his crew escaped to shore. The British wanted to land a detachment to search for the Americans but the Portuguese governor and the resident American consul John Bass Dabney prevented them from doing this. Lloyd's squadron subsequently set sail for the Americas, ending any possibilities of further conflict. Reid and the crew of General Armstrong were credited by the American public with helping delay the British attack on New Orleans in 1815 and when they returned to the United States to a heroes welcome. However, later historical analysis showed that this was likely not the case.


== See also ==
Battle of Rappahannock River
Battle of Doro Passage


== Notes ==


=== Explanatory notes ===


=== Citations ===


== References ==
Coggeshall, George (1856). History of the American privateers: and letters-of-marque, during our war with England in the years 1812, '13, and '14. Interspersed with several naval battles between American and British ships-of-war. Coggeshall Publishing.
James, William; Frederick Chamier (1859). The naval history of Great Britain, from the declaration of war by France in 1793, to the accession of George IV. London, England: R. Bently Publishing.
Roosevelt, Theodore (1882). The Naval War of 1812 Or the History of the United States Navy during the Last War with Great Britain to Which Is Appended an Account of the Battle of New Orleans. New York: Modern Library. ISBN 0-375-75419-9. {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)
Bettencourt, José; Márcia Dutra Pinto, eds. (1859). The Wonderful Battle of the Brig Gen. Armstrong at Faial, 1814: No Bicentário do combate naval corrido na Baía da Horta a 27 Setembro de 1814. Faial, Portugal: OMA-Observatório do Mar dos Açores. ISBN 978-989-98132-9-8. {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help); |author2= has generic name (help)


== External links ==
American Privateers in The War Of 1812 Archived 2021-03-05 at the Wayback Machine:  Examines the myths and facts behind Captain Samuel Reid's sea battle in the Azores and whether Reid's action actually delayed the British squadron and aided General Jackson's defense of New Orleans.

Ouzouer-sur-Trézée (French pronunciation: [uzwɛʁ syʁ tʁeze; uzwaʁ-]) is a commune of the Loiret department in north-central France. The Briare Canal and the river Trézée run through the town. A well-known mayor of the town was Count Robert de La Rochefoucauld, a fighter and spy for the French Resistance.


== See also ==
Communes of the Loiret department


== References ==

Ricardo Osvaldo Lazbal (born in Buenos Aires, Argentina) is a former Argentine footballer who played for clubs in Argentina, Chile and France.


== Teams ==
 River Plate 1976
 Atlético Ledesma 1976
 Gimnasia y Esgrima de La Plata 1977
 Palestino 1978–1979
 All Boys 1980
 San Lorenzo 1980
 Loma Negra 1981–1983
 Gimnasia y Esgrima de Mendoza 1984
 Belgrano de San Nicolás 1985
 Le Puy 1985–1986
 Roanne 1986–1987
 Moutier 1987–1989
 Montmorillon 1989–1991


== Coaching career ==
Lazbal has developed a career as a football teacher, football coach and coordinator for youth players for clubs such as River Plate, Quilmes, San Lorenzo, among others.


== Titles ==
 Palestino 1978 (Chilean Primera División Championship)


== References ==


== External links ==
Ricardo Lazbal at BDFA (in Spanish)

Steen Erik Mastrup (born 2 June 1958) is a Danish former motorcycle speedway rider.


== Career ==
Born in Naestved, Mastrup established himself in Danish speedway and represented Denmark at under-21 level in 1977. He made his British League debut in 1978 with Swindon Robins. At the time his girlfriend was his mechanic. By 1981 his average had risen to above six points per match. He was capped several times in the full Denmark team. 
After an injury in 1982 he signed again for Swindon but suffered a drop in form in 1983 and transferred to Leicester Lions. This was his final season in British speedway. (His form improved at Leicester later that year and he positively announced at the end of year meeting he would be back next season but the sudden closure of the Leicester track that winter probably resulted in his non-return to British speedway.


== References ==

The Yanji Yangtze River Bridge (Chinese: 燕矶长江大桥) is an under construction suspension bridge over the Yangtze, China.


== Locale ==
The Yanji Yangtze River Bridge is located 6.7 kilometers downstream from the Ehuang Yangtze River Bridge. It borders Huangzhou District, Huanggang City, to the north, and Yanji City, Ezhou City, to the south.


== Description ==
The preliminary design of the bridge was approved in 2021 and the bridge is expected to be completed in 2025. In December 2024, after the completion of the towers, the laying of the cables was completed, with the deck still to be laid.


== See also ==
Bridges and tunnels across the Yangtze River
List of longest suspension bridge spans - Under construction
List of bridges in China


== References ==


== External links ==
燕矶长江大桥 at Baidu Baike (in Chinese)
Yanji Yangtze River Bridge under construction in China's Hubei at English.Gov.Cn

The Dadu Plateau (Chinese: 大肚台地), also known as Dadu Mountain or Dadushan (Chinese: 大肚山; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Tōa-tō͘-soaⁿ), is a plateau that stretches across Taichung, Taiwan. It borders the Taichung Basin in the east and the seacoast of Taichung in the west, and lies between the Dajia River and the Dadu River. The plateau is long and narrow, with a length of about 20 km north to south and a width of about 7 km east to west. Its average elevation is about 151 m above sea level, with its highest peak at 310 m.


== See also ==
Dadu, Taichung
Kingdom of Middag


== References ==

Marian Arahuetes Castaño (Madrid, Spain, March 4, 1987) is a Spanish actress known for her role as Isabel Beneito in the series Gran Hotel, for the role of Pilar Lloveras in the series Amar es para siempre and for the role of Adela in the soap opera Acacias 38.


== Biography ==
Marian Arahuetes was born on March 4, 1987, in Madrid. Since she was a child, she has cultivated a passion for acting.


== Career ==
Marian Arahuetes is a Spanish actress who studied acting at the la Compañía Nacional Teatro Clásico in Madrid, the Taller Jóvenes Actores del Teatro La Abadía in Madrid, the Central de Cine in Madrid, and the Real Escuela Superior de Arte Dramático in Madrid, where she took courses in fencing, stage fighting, verse, vocal technique, and textual interpretation.
Her first appearance on the small screen was in 2006, when she played the role of Mina in the film Diente por ojo, directed by Eidvind Holmboe. In 2009, she played the role of Orpha in the film Mujeres de la Biblia, la historia de Ruth, directed by Denise M. Goodwin.
In 2011, she starred in the series 14 de abril.La República. The following year, in 2012, she played the role of Sister Beatriz in the series Bandolera.
In 2012 and 2013, she played the role of Isabel Beneito in Gran Hotel. In 2013, she played the role of Candela in the series Cosas de sofá. That same year, she played the role of Lourdes in the series Gran Reserva: El origen. In 2013, she played the role of Virginia in the cartoon V de Virginia by Máster Globomedia.
In 2013 and 2014, she played the role of Pilar Lloveras in the Amar es para siempre.
In 2015, she played the role of Lina in the film Constelación urbana directed by Luis Galán. The following year, in 2016, she starred in the feature film Le Ve, directed by herself.
In 2017, she played the role of Catalina in the series Seis hermanas. Also in the same year, she starred in the film Red de libertad.
Also in 2017, she joined the cast of the soap opera Acacias 38, where she played the role of Adela until 2018, when her character died.


== Filmography ==


=== Cinema ===


=== Television ===


=== Short films ===


== References ==

Guard rails, guardrails, railings or protective guarding, in general, are a boundary feature and may be a means to prevent or deter access to dangerous or off-limits areas while allowing more light and visibility than a fence. Common shapes are flat, rounded edge, and tubular in horizontal railings, whereas tetraform spear-headed or ball-finialed are most common in vertical railings around homes. Inside the home, at the edge of stairs or balconies, they are called balustrades, especially when of a more elaborate design.  Park and garden railings commonly in metalworking feature swirls, leaves, plate metal areas and/or motifs particularly on and beside gates.
High-security railings (particularly if in flat metal then a type of palisade) may instead feature jagged points and most metals are well-suited to anti-climb paint.
A handrail is less restrictive on its own than a guard rail and provides support.


== Public safety ==

Many public spaces are fitted with guard rails as a means of protection against accidental falls. Any abrupt change in elevation where the higher portion is accessible makes a fall possible. Due to this responsibility and liability, rails are placed to protect people using the premises. Guardrails in the US are generally required by code where there is a drop of 30 inches (0.76 m) or more.
Examples of this are both architectural and environmental. Environmental guard rails are placed along hiking trails where adjacent terrain is steep. Railings may also be located at scenic overlooks.
Guard rails in buildings can be numerous, and are required by building codes in many circumstances. Handrails along stairways may be supported by balusters forming a balustrade, and catwalks (a type of footbridge) and balconies are also lined with them. An example of a common residential guard rail (US) or handrail (Brit.) is a wood railing around a deck or patio. In the US this is typically built on-site from pressure-treated lumber featuring a simple design of vertical balusters spaced every 3.5 inches (8.9 cm), demonstrating compliance with building codes (standards).
Cable railings typically use stainless steel cables strung horizontally. Glass balusters and glass panels open the view while still providing safety, as at the Grand Canyon Skywalk. With the increasing popularity of composite lumber for decking, manufacturers are providing composite railing components. Wrought iron is another choice that is traditional and sturdy. Decorative examples are considered ironwork.
Building codes also require that no opening in a guard be of a size such that a 4-inch (10 cm) sphere may pass. There are three exceptions according to the 2003 International Building Code Section 1012.3 which allow openings to not exceed 8 or 21 inches (20 or 53 cm) depending on occupancy groups or special areas.
The architect Alvar Aalto imaginatively used handrails representing social stability. The guard rails of an observation tower such as the Space Needle or Eiffel Tower become exaggerated to the point of becoming a fence or cage. This is also done on bridges and overpasses to prevent accidents and suicides.


== Facility safety ==

The majority of safety guardrails used in industrial workplaces are made from fabricated steel. Steel guardrail was originally developed by Armco (The American Rolling Mill Company) in 1933 as highway guardrail but is often used in the factories and warehouses of the industrial sector, despite not being intended for this application. Simultaneously, another version of steel guardrail was developed by Kee Clamp Steel for restraining cattle in the agriculture industry, this was released in 1934 and, like Armco guardrail, is still often used in industrial environments. Box beam steel and I-beam steel are other examples of fabricated steel commonly used to make safety guardrails.
As governments around the world courted the voting power of working people and trade unions in the 1980s, the health and safety rights of workers became of greater importance. This set the governmental procedures in motion that would see a flurry of regulations and legislation around workplace safety being introduced in industrialized countries in the 1990s. In the US and UK, these introductions, combined with the demonstrable success of the Occupational Safety and Health Act 1970 (US), and the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 (UK), led to workplace safety being taken more seriously at industrial facilities. Businesses worldwide began to see the value of effective workplace safety, in both the direct commercial sense of protecting assets, but also in the improved productivity levels of a protected workforce. Part of this increase in desire for industrial workplace protection, was a growth in demand for safety guardrails.
In the US, under OSHA Standard 1910.28(b)(15), employees who work on surfaces that are 4 feet (1.2 m) or higher off of the ground must have personal fall protection systems in place, such as handrails or guardrails. Great Britain's Work at Height Regulations 2005 by contrast apply to any work at height, defined functionally rather than quantitatively as any location, even at or below ground level, where a person could fall a distance liable to cause personal injury. Although the OSHA standard calls for a guardrail or guardrail system to protect workers on elevated work areas, current industry terminology would refer to that type of safety system as a handrail system or safety rail system.
The term "guardrail" as used in industry and distribution facilities refers to floor mounted systems consisting of horizontal rails attached to upright posts that resemble outdoor highway guardrail. The facility safety guardrails control in-plant vehicular traffic and protect areas where errant vehicle contact may cause harm to property or personnel. Common uses for guardrail systems may be along an aisle or building wall. Often guardrails are placed around equipment installations to prevent inadvertent contact from lift trucks. The guardrail provides a safety barrier preventing lift trucks or other in-plant vehicles from traveling into equipment, building walls, or personnel.   
There are different types of "industrial" or "facility safety" guardrail systems, each with its own advantages.


=== Types of guardrail ===


==== Steel ribbed rail ====

The most common industrial or facility safety guardrail systems are constructed of steel, where the upright posts are made of heavy wall steel tubing-either round or square, with heavy gauge ribbed steel rails mechanically attached to the uprights by bolts or other fasteners. The uprights may be welded to baseplates and anchored to the floor, or set and concreted into the floor. In industrial and distribution facilities the steel guardrail systems provide solid protection for property and personnel by restricting and controlling where in-plant vehicular traffic may operate. These guardrail systems also serve as a warning for people to be aware of hazardous in facility vehicular traffic. Some facility safety steel guardrail systems utilize one horizontal rail, where others employ two or three rails. While a single rail safety guardrail located some 15 inches (38 cm) above floor level may be sufficient to control vehicle traffic, it could present a trip hazard to pedestrians since it is not as noticeable as a double or triple guardrail system where the top rail is some 40 inches (100 cm) above the floor level.
Manufacturers produce several grades of steel safety guardrail. Each grade is suited to a different application which may be determined by size and type of vehicles used in the facility, the volume of traffic to be controlled, or the value/risk associated with the areas being guarded.


==== Polymer guardrail ====

In 1992 a yellow polymer cover sleeve for steel guardrails was introduced by Ideal Shield, a Detroit-based company which enhanced the visibility of steel safety guardrails in industrial environments and removed the need for continual repainting. This polymer cover was the beginning of polymer guardrail in the industrial environment. At the turn of the 21st century, several companies developed safety products constructed with polymer designed specifically for industrial environments and in 2001 a dedicated industrial alternative to steel guardrail was invented by A-SAFE, a British-based company, and thus the first fixed flexible polymer safety guardrail was introduced to the market. In the early 2000s, an Italian company added a version of a polymer bumper providing small bumpers for walls and equipment in the food industry. A Belgian company also introduced a flexible barrier in 2010 and in 2014 a US based company introduced a hybrid polymer-steel guardrail for industrial environments.
There are many types of polymer used in manufacturing safety guardrail. Polymer grains may be blended as part of the production process in order to enhance the natural properties of polymer in different ways. The most common types of polymer used are: polyethylene, polypropylene, and polyvinyl chloride (PVC). Using these types of polymer, there are three basic design philosophies for polymer guardrails:

Impact dispersal, which applies multi-component engineering to enable guardrails to bend on impact, absorbing and dispersing energy, before returning to their original shape.
Hybrid, which features a steel core encased in polymer.
Central fix, which utilizes a solid polymer post fixed into the ground with cement and steel subterranean fixings.
The polymer impact dispersal safety guardrail design offers an advantage over steel guardrails. Steel guardrails, if impacted with sufficient energy, will permanently deform and require repair or replacement to the impacting vehicle, the guardrail itself, and even the floor substrate; whereas the impact dispersal safety guardrail design allows the guardrail to bend on impact, disperse the energy, and return to its original shape, resulting in no damage to the guardrail or the impacting vehicle.


=== Test standards ===
Until 2017 there were no accepted standards for how safety guardrail tests were conducted, or how the results were communicated. In 2017, the British Standards Institution (BSI) published the publicly available specification, PAS 13:2017 Code of Practice for safety barriers used in traffic management within workplace environments with test methods for safety barrier impact resilience (commonly referred to as PAS13). This outlines test method guidelines for comparing like-for-like guardrail products, as well as being the current best practice traffic management procedures for a workplace and providing a standard for the safety guardrails within them.
In the US, there is no ANSI standard for testing guardrails. Steel guardrail system manufacturers test their systems to withstand impacts from a 10,000-pound (4,500 kg) load moving at four miles per hour (6.4 km/h), whereas manufacturers of polymer safety guardrail systems rate and test their products at varying impact levels due to variation in guardrail product systems they offer, which can range from simple low impact energy pedestrian guardrail systems to high impact energy industrial traffic guardrail systems. In order to standardize testing for both steel and polymer guardrails, the Protective Guarding Manufacturers Association (ProGMA) industry group of the Material Handling Industry (MHI) trade association is currently working with ANSI to develop an industry endorsed testing and reporting standard.


== Automotive safety ==

In traffic engineering, a highway guardrail may prevent an errant vehicle from hitting roadside obstacles, which may be either man-made (sign structures, culvert inlets, utility poles) or natural (trees, rock croppings), running off the road and going down a steep embankment, or veering off the roadway into oncoming traffic (commonly referred to as a median barrier). Roadside obstacles are typically referred to as fixed objects. A secondary objective is keeping the vehicle upright while deflected along the guardrail. Variables such as motorist speed and vehicle orientation when striking the guardrail are crucial factors in the effectiveness of guardrail performance.
The most common type of guardrail in use today is the blocked-out W-beam (strong post). The strong-post W-beam guardrail consists of wood posts and wood blockouts or steel posts with wood or plastic blockouts. The wood or plastic blockouts reduce or minimize a vehicle snagging on the posts upon impact. In addition, a blockout may be used to increase the offset of guardrail with an obstacle such as a curb. The posts' primary purpose is to maintain the height of the guardrail during the initial stages of post deflection. Maintaining guardrail height also reduces the potential for a vehicle to vault over the guardrail upon initial impact. The posts also play a role in the amount of resistance and deflection a guardrail may experience during impact. Resistance in a strong post system results from a combination of tensile and flexural stiffness of the rail and the bending and shearing resistance of the posts.
One of the main concerns with strong-post W-beam guardrail has been the ability of the system to contain and redirect modern vehicles that have a higher center of gravity along with the increased weight of those vehicles. For instance the optimum height of the strong-post W-beam for a car might not keep a truck from toppling over it, while a motorbike might slip under a higher rail. To address these concerns, significant research and development of a system that could contain and redirect vehicles of varying weights and heights was developed and crash tested (both controlled and simulated). As a result, the Midwest Guardrail System (MGS) was developed and successfully crash tested per NCHRP Report 350 TL-3 criteria. The MGS has a higher mounting height, uses larger posts and blockouts as compared to the strong-post W-beam guardrail. One other significant difference is that MGS rail splices occur at mid-span compared to at the posts like the strong-post W-beam guardrail.
In most cases, a guardrail would not be able to withstand the impact of a vehicle just by the strength of the individual posts in the area hit by the vehicle. Guardrailing functions as a system with the guardrail, posts, connection of the rail to the posts and to each other, and the end anchors (or terminals) all playing an integral role in how the guardrail will function upon impact. Soil conditions, height of rail, presence of curb or dike, weight of impacting vehicle, distance from back of post to hinge point and depth of post within soil can all determine how well the system will function upon impact.
A guardrail is effectively one strong band that transfers the force of the vehicle to the rail elements, posts, and end terminals or anchors.  A run of guardrail must be anchored at each terminating end either by transitioning the rail into a fixed anchor such as a bridge rail or with an end terminal or end anchor placed in the ground or within an embankment. Newer concrete barriers, while usually strong enough to withstand direct hits by cars, still work on a similar principle in deflecting heavier vehicles such as trucks.
Guard rails are intended to deflect. The amount of deflection is dependent on a number of factors, some of which include the type and weight of impacting vehicle, height the guardrail is placed, type of soil the posts may be embedded within, length of embedment of the posts, and distance of the hinge point to the face of the guardrail are just a few. A guardrail that deflects significantly can causes pocketing, which has the potential to snag a vehicle, which may cause it to flip, roll, or cause the rail to fail entirely, allowing a vehicle to  penetrate the guardrail.
Modern installations of guardrails are designed to allow the guiderail to deform under the load of the crash, and safely redirecting a vehicle back onto the roadway at a somewhat shallow angle. It is important that the approach grades to a guardrail system be very flat (typically 10:1 or flatter) and that grades and fixed objects behind guardrail be placed at a distance so that it will not affect the performance of the guardrail upon impact and deflection.
Absorption is when the force of impact is directly transferred between the vehicle and guardrail, which may cause the end to puncture the vehicle. This is most common where a "whale tail" or blunt end treatment exists. To mitigate this a number of guiderail end treatments exist such as "extruder end treatments", "eccentric loaders" and "driveway wrap treatments" which result in blunt ends rarely being left exposed in modern installations.
Lastly, a vehicle can become airborne upon striking a guardrail with a buried end treatment if the slope to which the end anchor is buried is relatively flat (3:1 or flatter), which may negate the purpose of the guardrail, if the vehicle continues beyond the guardrail and strikes the object the guardrail was protecting. Additionally, an airborne vehicle is likely to collide in a manner that the vehicle was not designed for, increasing the risk of failure in the vehicle's collision safety systems. A guardrail will have some give and deflection upon impact. The amount of deflection depends on many factors of which speed and weight of vehicle, type of guardrail installed, height of rail, length of posts, soil conditions and a number of other factors can all play a role. Guardrailing must be installed so that it is not so rigid that the rail will fail upon impact or the posts will snap off at the point where they are embedded within the ground.
Transportation engineers limit the amount of guardrail placed as much as possible, as guardrails should only be placed when the roadside conditions pose a greater threat than the guardrail itself. In fact, in the hierarchy of five roadside safety treatments, shielding with guardrails ranks fourth. Therefore, while guardrails are often added as a retrofit to existing roads, newer roads are designed to minimize roadside obstacles, whether that may include aligning a road on a smoother curve or filling in a ravine which would eliminate the need for guardrail altogether. In addition to new research into end treatments, public awareness among both drivers and engineers has been gradually reducing injuries and fatalities due to guardrails. Though they have usually prevented far more serious accidents, guardrails are considered roadside obstacles as well and transportation engineers must weigh whether placing a guardrail will reduce the severity of an impact as compared to what may be impacted if the guardrail were not placed. In general, the minimum length of guardrail with an end anchor at the trailing end and an end terminal on the approach end will be 62.5 to 75 feet (19.1 to 22.9 m) in length. An example would be where an overhead roadside sign structure is placed within what is considered the clear recovery zone—an engineer would need to determine that the structure has a potential to be impacted and the impact of a vehicle with that structure would be much more severe than impacting the guardrail.
There are four general types of guardrail, ranging from weakest and inexpensive to strongest and expensive; cable and wood posts, steel and wood/metal posts, steel box-beam, and concrete barriers. While cheaper guardrail is the weakest, often being destroyed from the impact of a light vehicle, it is inexpensive and quick to repair, so this is frequently used in low-traffic rural areas. On the other hand, concrete barriers can usually withstand direct hits from a larger variety of vehicle types, making them well suited for use on high volume routes such as freeways or ramps with sharp curves. While rarely damaged, they would be considerably more expensive and time-consuming to repair. Concrete barriers are frequently installed in the median, being expected to withstand frequent impacts from both sides, while the shoulders of the road often have cheaper guardrail. Although the use of concrete barriers on the right side of highway is becoming a much more frequent occurrence in areas where guardrail may be sustaining frequent impacts and the ability for maintenance repairs may be restricted by the general area or work windows due to high traffic volumes for most of the day.


== Traffic dangers ==
In cities occasionally pedestrian railings (and barriers) are installed at the immediate side of a roads. However, cyclists have died when crushed against them by motor vehicles. Close "safety barriers" to roads have been found to increase the chances of injury to pedestrians for a number of reasons including increasing inattention of drivers and pedestrians. For these reasons some councils in the United Kingdom have removed their pedestrian railings. This was after London's Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea did so and found that the rate of injury to pedestrians decreased three times faster than elsewhere in the city.
The removal of barriers divorcing wheeled traffic from pedestrians is an essential of the shared space paradigm and philosophy in urban design. Security barriers have been introduced on a number of the world's major bridges and around key areas of congregation.


== Railways ==

Railway tracks have guard rails (also known as check rails) to guide wheels through possible catch points on turnouts or diamonds.  Similarly, guard rails may be installed inside the innermost running rails on very sharp curves.  The other most common usage is to prevent damage to other structures, especially bridges, in a derailment.


== See also ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Roadside Hardware Policy and Guidance – United States Federal Highway Administration
Glass Railing Building Codes
Protective Guarding Manufacturers Association (ProGMA)

Plaistow (, traditionally ) is a town in Rockingham County, New Hampshire, United States. The population was 7,830 at the 2020 census.


== History ==
The land of what is now Plaistow was originally allocated to Haverhill, Massachusetts, as a part of Old Norfolk County. When New Hampshire was separated by decree of King Charles II in 1679, the portion of Haverhill north of the new border was incorporated into the new province.
Plaistow was officially established as a town in 1749 after the 1739 resolution of a long-running boundary dispute between the Province of Massachusetts Bay and the Province of New Hampshire. It is the only town outside the United Kingdom with the name Plaistow. In 1776 the western part of Plaistow became a separate town, Atkinson.
The present town hall was built in 1895. Each year, the town celebrates "Old Home Day", with a parade that travels down Main Street through Plaistow village, fireworks at the local high school, and a carnival-type atmosphere on the Town Hall lawn to celebrate the town's anniversary.


== Geography ==
According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 10.60 square miles (27.45 km2), of which 0.01 square miles (0.02 km2), or 0.06%, are water. The highest point in Plaistow is an unnamed summit at 384 feet (117 m) above sea level near the town's northern end. The town is drained by the Little River, a south-flowing tributary of the Merrimack River in Massachusetts.


=== Adjacent municipalities ===
Kingston (north)
Newton (northeast)
Merrimac, Massachusetts (east at one point)
Haverhill, Massachusetts (south)
Atkinson (west)
Hampstead (northwest)


== Demographics ==

As of the census of 2000, there were 7,747 people, 2,871 households, and 2,150 families residing in the town.  The population density was 728.8 inhabitants per square mile (281.4/km2).  There were 2,927 housing units at an average density of 275.4 per square mile (106.3/km2).  The racial makeup of the town was 98.33% White, 0.21% African American, 0.10% Native American, 0.50% Asian, 0.30% from other races, and 0.56% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.32% of the population.
There were 2,871 households, out of which 35.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 60.1% were married couples living together, 10.7% had a female householder with no husband present, and 25.1% were non-families. 19.1% of all households were made up of individuals, and 6.0% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 2.69 and the average family size was 3.10.
In the town, the population was spread out, with 25.8% under the age of 18, 7.0% from 18 to 24, 32.0% from 25 to 44, 25.0% from 45 to 64, and 10.1% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 37 years. For every 100 females, there were 95.7 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 94.9 males.
The median income for a household in the town was $61,707, and the median income for a family was $66,852. Males had a median income of $45,756 versus $31,657 for females. The per capita income for the town was $25,255.  About 2.1% of families and 3.2% of the population were below the poverty line, including 1.4% of those under age 18 and 7.5% of those age 65 or over.


== Education ==

Plaistow is home to Timberlane Regional High School (grades 9–12) and Timberlane Regional Middle School (grades 6–8), which serve as middle and high school for the towns of Plaistow, Atkinson, Danville and Sandown. Plaistow is also home to Pollard Elementary School, which serves only Plaistow children from kindergarten to grade 5.
Timberlane Regional High School has had noticeable success in music, theatrical performance, wrestling, and softball.  The school offers access to vocational programs at Salem High School and Pinkerton Academy. Timberlane students participating in the program start during the 11th grade and spend two to three periods a day at either Salem or Pinkerton.  Upon graduation, the participating students receive an associate's degree along with a high school diploma.


== Economy and transportation ==
Plaistow's economy is centered along New Hampshire Route 125 (Plaistow Road), a north–south road that connects the town with Haverhill, Massachusetts, to the south and Kingston, Epping, and Rochester, New Hampshire, to the north. Local businesses and numerous large chain stores are located along Route 125, which has become known for problems with heavy traffic during weekday commuting and weekend shopping hours. Route 125 intersects with Interstate 495 in Massachusetts 2 miles (3 km) south of the center of Plaistow.
Route 121A (Main Street) runs north to south through the center of Plaistow, as a local route. It crosses NH 125 north of the center of town and terminates at the Massachusetts border, where the road continues south for a few yards before terminating at Massachusetts Route 125. NH 121A leads north through East Hampstead and Sandown to Chester. New Hampshire Route 108 runs north to south along the eastern edge of Plaistow, just 0.1 miles (0.16 km) west of the Massachusetts border. Route 108 leads north to Newton and Exeter and south to the center of Haverhill. NH 121 crosses the extreme southwestern corner of town for about 1000 feet. It leads west into Atkinson and terminates to the southeast at the Massachusetts border, where the road continues into Haverhill as North Main Street.
Pan Am Railways (formerly the Boston and Maine Railroad) operates the main railroad line from Boston to Portland, Maine, which is utilized by Amtrak and by freight trains, running through Plaistow. Passenger stations for the Amtrak Downeaster are available in Haverhill to the south and Exeter to the north. A proposal to extend existing MBTA commuter rail service from Boston through Haverhill into Plaistow concluded in 2015 with the decision not to extend the route at this time.
MVRTA bus 13 runs from the center of Haverhill to Wal-Mart on Route 125.


== Notable people ==
Shem Kellogg (1982–2016), New Hampshire legislator
Daniel Peaslee (1773–1827), Vermont legislator, judge
Thomas Toth, Canadian runner


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website
Plaistow Public Library
Plaistow Historical Society
Timberlane Regional School District
NH Economic and Labor Market Information Bureau profile

Mater Dei School (abbreviated MD; Thai: มาแตร์เดอีวิทยาลัย; RTGS: Matae De-i Witthayalai) is a private Catholic school in Bangkok, Thailand.
The school is run by the Sisters of the Ursuline Order who founded the school in 1928. "Mater Dei" is a Latin phrase which means "Mother of God".


== Graduating Class Code ==
Mater Dei uses a batch-based system like most Thai schools, such Triam Udom Suksa School and Suankularb. Under this system, graduating cohorts are identified by sequential batch numbers. For example, the Class of 2023 is referred to as materdei93, indicating the 93rd graduating class since the school's first cohort, materdei1 graduated in 1930.


== History ==
In 1925, the Ursuline Sisters of the Roman Union sent four of their European sisters to carry out educational works in Thailand at the invitation of Archbishop Rene Perros, head of the Catholic mission in Siam. In 1926, Sister Marie Bernard Mancel, the second superior of the Ursuline Order in Thailand, decided to purchase a piece of land of about 18 rai (just under 3 hectares) with a large house. The house was removed, and Mater Dei was built on the land. It became the only educational institution on Ploenchit Road.
In 1927, classrooms were set up based on the British education system, enrolling students from Kindergarten to Form V and comprising two departments, the English and the French departments. The school accepted both day and boarding students and was considered to be the first school in the area to offer Kindergarten level.
Mater Dei was founded on February 2, 1928. Classes commenced on February 6, 1928, with 45 students. Initially, two Sisters were assigned to accompany the students to and from Rajprasong since the area was rather deserted.
Although Mater Dei was an all-girls school, it also enrolled boys from Kindergarten to Primary 2. One of those students was Prince Ananda Mahidol (student number 273), who enrolled in 1930. He became the king of  Thailand in 1935, and after his death in 1946, he was succeeded as King by his brother, Prince Bhumibol Adulyadej, who also enrolled at the school in 1932 (student number 449).
In 1936, Mater Dei changed its curriculum to conform to that of the Ministry of Education. The Ministry opened a Pre-University School in order to prepare students for university education. It ordered other schools to discontinue classes for the last two years in the Secondary level, thus reducing the student numbers. Mater Dei then opened a Finishing Course in 1939 that required three years to complete. There was no emphasis on vocational training, but students were taught domestic science and job skills.
In 1944, during World War II, following the advice of the Ministry of Education, the school evacuated students to its newly opened school in Hua Hin. It was moved back to the original location in 1945 when the war ended and the Japanese occupiers left.
In 1960, the Sisters built a new school at Lang Suan Road for their growing student body. This was expanded in 1962.
In 1964, 1965 and 1966, Mater Dei received the "Outstanding School" Award. In 1966 it also received a royal plaque.


== Facilities ==
To commemorate the 50th anniversary of Mater Dei's founding, the "50th Memorial Building" was opened in 1981. It is currently the school's gymnasium.
The most recent building was built in 1992. It houses the Kindergarten and Secondary School. Its name, "Royal Celebration Building", was given by King Bhumibol to celebrate his 6th cycle (72nd) birthday.


== Notable alumni ==
Ananda Mahidol, King Rama VIII of Thailand
Bhumibol Adulyadej, King Rama IX of Thailand
Dasanavalaya Sorasongkram, niece of King Rama IX
Pattranite Limpatiyakorn, nicknamed "Love", Actress
Plearnpichaya Komalarajun, nicknamed "June", Actress and singer
Paetongtarn Shinawatra, 31st Prime Minister of Thailand
Ploenchan Vinyaratn, Thai textile artist


== External links ==
Mater Dei official website


== References ==

Ipomopsis rubra is a flowering plant of the phlox family native to North America in the state of Texas and the southeastern United States, commonly known as standing cypress, scarlet gilia, Texas plume, flame flower, and indian spur. This classification is synonymous with Gilia rubra. This flower is noteworthy for its bright, upturned flowers.


== Identification ==
Ipomosis rubra has very short, filament leaves attached to long stems, upwards of five feet long in some cases. Ipomosis rubra flowers are about an inch long with a number of small stamen inside. The tubular flowers grow in spears and all point upwards. The flowers have small yellow dots inside, and have five lobed petals. Ipomosis rubra also has a very long taproot to survive droughts.


== Uses ==
This flower has found use in gardens as a hummingbird attractant for its hardy qualities and self-seeding nature. Ipomopsis rubra is also attractive for low water requirements.


== References ==

Leifheit AG is a German manufacturer of household products for cleaning, laundry, and kitchen use, headquartered in Nassau. The shares of Leifheit AG have been listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in the Prime Standard segment since 1984.


== History ==


=== 1959 to 1974: Founding and the Leifheit couple's era ===
The company was founded in 1959 by Günter Leifheit (13 December 1920 – 2 July 2009) and his wife Ingeborg, as Günter Leifheit KG. In 1960, production of carpet sweepers based on designs by Hans Erich Slany began. By producing around two million carpet sweepers annually, the company became the leading supplier of this product in Europe in 1970.
In 1972, Leifheit was acquired by the New York-based ITT Corporation. Two years later, the founding couple withdrew from the management of the company. Later, in 2006, Günter Leifheit received the Order of Merit of Rhineland-Palatinate.


=== 1974 to 2020: Various Acquisitions and Internationalization ===
After opening branches in various European countries including France, Switzerland and Italy, Deutsche Bank, which had by then become its owner, took the company public in 1984. Since then, the company has been listed on the Deutsche Börse.
In 1988, with the acquisition of Swiss company Spirella AG, Leifheit entered the bathroom sector, which was expanded in 1989 through the acquisition of the bath textiles factory BTF in Bremen (brand "Kleine Wolke") and in 1993 through companies acquired from Gold-Zack Werke AG, including Semer in Düren as well as the bathroom business of Nitex GmbH in Wedemark.
In 1995, another plant was established in Blatná (Czech Republic). This was followed by acquisitions of FRZ-Metallwarenfabrik Ruschitzka GmbH & Co. KG (Zuzenhausen near Heidelberg) and Meusch group. At the beginning of 2001, Leifheit AG increased its stake in Birambeau, a French company based in Paris with production in Chablis, to a majority holding. Also since 2001, the brand Soehnle (scales and wellbeing products), originally based in Murrhardt, has been part of the Leifheit Group. In 2008, the leading French manufacturer of laundry dryers, Herby, was acquired.
In 2010, the bathroom division (Kleine Wolke, Meusch, and Spirella) was sold to the company Possehl. In 2015, the Schuler-Voith family sold its shares in the company, after which the company's free float increased significantly. The 2010s saw growth in Eastern European markets.


=== Since 2020: Recent Past ===
In 2020, Leifheit launched an advertising campaign featuring television commercials in 16 countries. This initiative, along with the COVID-19 pandemic, during which many people focused more on household activities, was cited by Wirtschaftswoche as a reason for the company's strong growth that year.
In the fiscal year 2024, the revenue increased slightly, while Leifheit's profitability rose significantly. Earnings before interest and taxes doubled from €6.0 million in 2023 to €12.1 million.


== Structure ==

Leifheit, based in Nassau, Rhineland-Palatinate, is a publicly listed Aktiengesellschaft. The company supplies to over 80 countries and has 14 branches or locations, operating primarily in the European market (as of 2025). Leifheit operates its own production and logistics facilities in Germany, France, and the Czech Republic.
In 2024, Leifheit generated 62.3% of its turnover outside of Germany, turnover reached €259.2 million and earnings (EBIT) doubled to €12.1 million. In the third quarter of 2024, the e-commerce segment accounted for 23% of the company's sales, with an upward trend.
Leifheit AG has been listed on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange since 1984, and the company's ISIN is DE0006464506. From September 2016, Leifheit was temporarily listed on the SDAX. As of 2020, the company's equity ratio has been around 45% for years. In 2025, Thomas Schumm of Focus Money described Leifheit as a "reliable dividend payer", citing a "payout ratio of 75% of free cash flow" in recent years.


=== Shareholder Structure ===
As of July 2025:

10.03%: MKV Verwaltungs GmbH, Grünwald near Munich (Manuel Knapp-Voith)
8.26%: Ruthild Loh
8.71%: Leifheit AG, Nassau
0.05%: Employee shares with lock-in period
72.68%: Free float


== Products ==
Leifheit manufactures and sells household products. Leifheit as a brand for household goods is divided into three categories:

The "Clean Home" segment includes, among others, mechanical cleaning devices for floor and window cleaning, window vacuums and reusable mop covers.
The "Fresh Laundry" segment includes products for drying and ironing, such as rotary dryers, wall dryers, standing dryers, tower dryers, ironing boards, and ironing accessories.
The "Smart Kitchen" segment comprises kitchen products such as cutting sets, graters, slicers and mashers, insulated jugs, vacuum sealers, and baking, salad, and grill utensils.
The company’s brands also include: 

Soehnle (household and personal scales, Soehnle app)
Birambeau (kitchen utensils), French supplier of private-label products
Herby (laundry dryers), French supplier of private-label products


== Commitment and sustainability ==
In 2022, Leifheit conducted a campaign in cooperation with the Unternehmen Wald foundation, in which one tree was planted for every unit sold of selected promotional products. In 2023, Leifheit and its apprentices participated in the reforestation of the Nassau city forest, planting 4,000 trees. The trees planted are intended to be more resilient to climate change.


== References ==


== External links ==

Leifheit Group
Leifheit.com

Teretosporea are a proposed basal Holozoa clade in which Ichthyosporea and Pluriformea emerged with the Filozoa as sister clade. Since it is close to the divergence between the main lineages of fungi and animals, the study of Teretosporea can provide crucial information on the divergent lifestyles of these groups.


== References ==

Thomas Forrest (December 7, 1747 – March 20, 1825) was an American politician. He was member of the 16th Session of the United States Congress, and first chairman of the United States House Committee on Agriculture. He fought in the Continental Army as an artillery officer during the American Revolutionary War.


== Career ==
Forrest was born in Philadelphia in the Province of Pennsylvania.  During the American Revolutionary War he was commissioned a captain in Colonel Thomas Proctor's Pennsylvania Artillery Battalion on October 5, 1776. He led a 52-man company of artillery at the Battle of Trenton on December 26, 1776. Situated on high ground at the head of King and Queen Streets, his two brass six-pound cannons and other American guns helped dominate the battlefield. He was promoted to major on March 3, 1777, and lieutenant colonel on December 2, 1778.  He resigned October 7, 1781.
Forrest was elected as a Federalist to the 16th Congress. He served as the first chairman of the House Committee on Agriculture, after it was created on May 3, 1820. Seven representatives, under the chairmanship of Forrest, were assigned to the new committee.
He was again elected as a Federalist to the 17th Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of William Milnor.  He was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1822.
He died in Germantown, Pennsylvania, in 1825. His portrait by Charles Willson Peale hangs in Independence National Historical Park in Philadelphia.


== External links ==
United States Congress. "Thomas Forrest (id: F000281)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress.
Committee History can be found here: [1]
The Political Graveyard

Test cricket is the longest version of the sport of cricket. Test matches are played between international teams of eleven players each over four innings; each team bats twice. In the women's variant, the game is scheduled to last four days of play. The Women's Cricket Association was formed in England in 1926, and the first women's Test was played between England and Australia in 1934. The English team were on a tour of Australia and New Zealand, arranged by the WCA. The International Women's Cricket Council was formed in 1958 as the governing body for women's cricket. In 2005, women's cricket was brought under the International Cricket Council along with men's cricket; at that time 89 of the council's 104 members had started developing women's cricket. As of March 2026, a total of ten teams have played a total of 154 women's Test matches and 2 matches were abandoned. England have played the most matches (102) while Sri Lanka, Ireland and the Netherlands have played only one Test each.
A century is a score of a hundred or more runs in an innings. The first century in women's Test cricket was scored in 1935 by Myrtle Maclagan, who made 119 runs for England against Australia. Since then, a total of 119 centuries, including nine double centuries, have been scored. Betty Snowball of England (189 runs) held the record for the highest individual score for over 51 years. She was the second cricketer to hold the record after Maclagan, a record which stood until Sandhya Agarwal of India surpassed it by a single run in 1986. Following Agarwal the record was held by Denise Annetts (Australia, 1987), Kirsty Flavell (New Zealand, 1996), Karen Rolton (Australia, 2001), Mithali Raj (India, 2002), and the current record holder Kiran Baluch of Pakistan who, in 2004, scored 242 runs against the West Indies. Janette Brittin of England has scored five centuries in a Test career spanning 27 matches and 44 innings, the most hundreds in women's Test match history. Flavell scored the first double century in women's Test cricket in 1996; later nine more double centuries were scored, by Joanne Broadbent (Australia, 1998), Michelle Goszko (Australia, 2001), Karen Rolton (Australia, 2001), Mithali Raj (India, 2002), Kiran Baluch (Pakistan, 2004), Ellyse Perry (Australia, 2017) and Shafali Verma (India, 2024). As of January 2025, Australia and England have the most centurions (25 players each) while English players have scored the most centuries (47 times).
The first part of this list includes all players who have scored a Test century. The list is organised in chronological order; in cases where more than one player has scored a century in the same match or innings, the player who started batting earlier is listed first. The second part of the list provides an overview of century scores by Test playing teams. Teams are listed in the order of debut; in cases where two teams played their first match together, the host team is listed first.


== Key ==


== Centuries ==


== Team overview ==


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Heyhoe Flint, Rachael; Rheinberg, Netta (1976). Fair Play: The Story of Women's Cricket. London: Angus and Robertson. ISBN 0-207-95698-7.

Jurabek Murodov (sometimes spelled Jurabek Muradov) (Tajik: Ҷӯрабек Муродов, Russian: Джурабек Муродов) is a Tajik singer and songwriter. He is a People's Artist of Tajikistan and People's Artist of USSR (1979).


== Life ==
Jurabek Murodov's son Jonibek Murodov is also a popular singer.


== Track list ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Jurabek Murodov – Official Biography (English)

The 2013 Citrus Bowl, known as the Capital One Bowl for sponsorship purposes, was the sixty-seventh edition of the college football bowl game, played on January 1, 2013 at the Florida Citrus Bowl in Orlando, Florida. Part of the 2012–13 bowl season, it featured No. 7 Georgia of the SEC and No. 16 Nebraska of the Big Ten. The game began at 1:00 p.m. EST and was broadcast on ABC.
A record-breaking performance from UGA quarterback Aaron Murray led the Bulldogs to a 45–31 victory in a game that featured over 1,000 combined yards of offense.


== Teams ==
Each team lost its conference championship game, Georgia 32–28 to eventual national champion Alabama and Nebraska 70–31 to unranked Wisconsin.
Georgia and Nebraska met once prior to 2013, a 45–6 Cornhuskers win in the 1969 Sun Bowl.


=== Georgia ===


=== Nebraska ===


== Game ==
Georgia took an early lead when Shawn Williams blocked a Brett Maher out of the back of the end zone – though several Bulldogs missed an opportunity to recover the ball for a touchdown, Aaron Murray led a ten-play drive on the ensuing possession to give UGA a 9–0 lead. Nebraska, which entered as a double-digit underdog, mounted a strong response, marching 75 yards to get on the board. It was followed by a Will Compton pick-six of Murray to take a 14–9 lead, but on Georgia's next play from scrimmage, Murray hit Tavarres King on a downfield strike to reclaim the lead.
After intercepting Taylor Martinez in NU territory, Georgia stretched its lead back to nine on a Todd Gurley touchdown. The Cornhuskers again responded to a two-possession Georgia lead, scoring ten unanswered points to take a 24–23 lead into halftime. After the break, NU added to its lead on a thirteen-play drive capped by Rex Burkhead's second touchdown. UGA answered quickly on its ensuing drive, converting a third down to King before tying the game on a deep shot to Chris Conley and two-point conversion to Rhett McGowan.
With the game tied at 31, Nebraska advanced into Georgia territory, but Ameer Abdullah lost a fumble on third down despite NU players insisting tight end Ben Cotton had recovered the ball. Officials declined to review the play, and Georgia mounted a six-play touchdown drive to take the lead. After a Nebraska punt, Murray threw his fifth touchdown in the face of a six-man blitz, a screen pass to Conley that he took 87 yards to the end zone. Nebraska was unable to mount a scoring threat over the remaining eleven minutes and Georgia won 45–31.
Murray was named most valuable player after a hyper-efficient passing performance (a UGA bowl-record 427 yards on just eighteen completions) that included three touchdowns of 49 yards or more. Georgia set a new Citrus Bowl record with 589 yards of offense.


=== Scoring summary ===


=== Individual leaders ===


=== Team statistics ===


== Starting lineups ==


== References ==

Neal Russell Amundson (January 10, 1916 – February 16, 2011) was an American chemical engineer and applied mathematician. He was the chair of the department of chemical engineering at the University of Minnesota for over 25 years. Later, he was the Cullen Professor of Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering and Mathematics at the University of Houston. Amundson was considered one of the most prominent chemical engineering educators and researchers in the United States. The Chemical Engineering and Materials Science building at the University of Minnesota-Twin Cities bears his name.


== Early life and education ==
Neal Amundson was born and raised in Saint Paul, Minnesota, as the only child of a pipefitter and a housewife who struggled to survive the Great Depression. As a young child of 9, Neal became a scratch golfer with golf clubs provided by his father, Oscar Amundson.  Neal graduated from St. Paul Central High School in 1933 and was sixth in his class of 658 students.  Neal was awarded a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering in 1937 and was first in his class of 52 students that year from the University of Minnesota.  He was employed as a process engineer with Standard Oil of New Jersey at a plant in Louisiana.  He then returned to Minnesota where he met his wife, Shirley Dimond in 1941, and had three children.  He entered graduate school at the University of Minnesota and earned his master's degree in chemical engineering in 1941; and his PhD in mathematics in 1945.


== Career ==
He taught in the mathematics department until 1947 and joined the University of Minnesota's chemical engineering department, where he served as Chair from 1949 until 1977.  During his 25 years as department chair, Amundson helped the department to achieve a high national ranking among chemical engineering departments, which it still retains.
Amundson joined the University of Houston (UH) in 1977 as a Cullen Professor and a faculty member of the Chemical Engineering & Mathematics departments. He served as UH Provost from 1987 to 1989. Amundson is known internationally for his pioneering work applying mathematical modeling and analysis to the solution of chemical engineering problems.  His technical contributions are in the areas of mathematical modeling and analysis of chemical reactors, separation systems, polymerization units, and coal gasification units. Amundson was one of the main architects of the analytical methodology practiced by chemical engineers today.
Amundson wrote more than 200 technical articles as well as several books.  He chaired the U.S. National Research Council committee that wrote the influential "Frontiers in Chemical Engineering" report. He was the U.S. editor of Chemical Engineering Science from 1955 to 1972. Amundson was elected a member of National Academy of Engineering in 1970 and the National Academy of Sciences in 1992. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1992.  The National Academy of Engineering (NAE) bestowed on Amundson the prestigious NAE Founders' Award in 1990.
In 1996, Amundson was the first recipient of the International Symposia on Chemical Reaction Engineering (ISCRE) award for excellence, an award that is also named for him. The chemical engineering building at his alma mater University of Minnesota is named in his honor. He received numerous professional awards from the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE), American Chemical Society (ACS), International Symposium on Chemical Reaction Engineering (ISCRE), and American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE).
He received honorary doctorates from the Universities of Minnesota, Notre Dame, Pennsylvania, Guadalajara, and Northwestern University. He received the highest faculty honors given by the Universities of Minnesota and Houston.


== Key publications ==
Neal Amundson has authored numerous journal articles describing significant advances in chemical reaction engineering and chemical engineering which includes but is not limited to:

A. Acrivos, Neal Amundson, "Applications of matrix mathematics to chemical engineering problems", Industrial & Engineering Chemistry 47, 1533 (1955).
L. Lapidus, Neal Amundson, "Mathematics of adsorption in beds - VI: The effect of longitudinal diffusion in ion exchange and chromatographic columns", Journal of Physical Chemistry 56, 984 (1952).
L. Lapidus, Neal Amundson, "Chemical reactor stability and sensitivity", AIChE Journal 1, 513 (1955).
O. Bilous, Neal Amundson, "Chemical reactor stability and sensitivity - II: Effect of parameters on sensitivity of empty tubular reactors", AIChE Journal 2, 117-126 (1956).
R. Aris, Neal Amundson, "An analysis of chemical reactor stability and control - I: The possibility of local control, with perfect or imperfect control mechanisms", Chemical Engineering Science 7, 121 (1958).
K.Valentas, O. Bilous, Neal Amundson, "Analysis of breakage in dispersed phase systems", Industrial and Engineering Chemistry Fundamentals 5, 271 (1966).
Dan Luss, Neal Amundson, "Uniqueness of the steady state solutions for chemical reaction occurring in a catalyst particle or in a tubular reactor with axial diffusion", Chemical Engineering Science 22, 253-266 (1967).
F.R. Newbold, Neal R. Amundson, "A model for evaporation of a multicomponent droplet", AIChE Journal 19, 22-30 (1973).
Hugo S. Caram, Neal R. Amundson, "Diffusion and reaction in a stagnant boundary layer about a carbon particle", Industrial and Engineering Chemistry Fundamentals 16, 171-181 (1977).


== Legacy and impact on chemical engineering ==
Neal's vision was to combine modern advances in science together with elegant yet practical mathematical methods.  In his first two decades as department head of chemical engineering at the University of Minnesota, Amundson hired several chemists, mathematicians, and chemical engineers. He encouraged young faculty to explore new topics in chemical engineering such as biological systems and focused on broadening the discipline to include materials science and engineering. Neal acknowledged the importance of emerging fields and had a goal of attracting young faculty in topics such as microbiology and polymers.  In two decades, he hired several faculty that would become leaders of chemical engineering and materials science; these diverse individuals were then combined into a coherent program bound by his philosophy for team teaching and collaborative research.  Neal was famous for stating, "I never hired anybody if I thought I was smarter than they are."  Amundson promoted the idea of teaching courses in groups, with young faculty teaching and lecturing alongside senior professors; his legacy continues at the University of Minnesota.
Neal Amundson has been called the "father of modern chemical engineering" to recognize his invigoration of chemical engineering with mathematics and emerging research fields.  His work has impacted multiple generations of students, including his mentoring of 52 PhD students throughout his career.  As of 2006, Neal Amundson's academic family tree contains more than 3,000 individuals.  His work on reaction engineering, transport phenomena, and complex reacting systems remains the foundation of modern reaction engineering and chemical engineering.  As stated by Professors Andreas Acrivos and Dan Luss, "Seldom has an individual exerted such a major influence in the development of an important field as was done by Neal Amundson to chemical engineering."


== Death ==
Amundson died on February 16, 2011, at the age of 95.


== Notes ==


== External links ==
Andreas Acrivos and Dan Luss, "Neal Russell Amundson", Biographical Memoirs of the National Academy of Sciences (2013)

LoliRock is a French animated television series produced by Marathon Media. It was created by Jean Louis-Vandestoc and written by Madellaine Paxson. It first aired in France on 18 October 2014 on France 3, and has expanded to television channels in Europe. It has also been licensed worldwide, with an English dub released to Netflix on 1 May 2016. The LoliRock producers released the four episodes of season 2 on YouTube in December 2016.  Netflix has released the English dub of the season 2 episodes on 5 January 2017. The second season was broadcast on France 4 in February with two episodes per weekday.
In 2023, it was announced that a third season is in production. 
The release is scheduled for 2028.


== Series overview ==


== Episode list ==


=== Season 1 (2014–2016) ===
Most episodes are self-contained and can be viewed in any order, save for certain episodes that would fit the progression: "To Find a Princess" (Ep. 1), "Xeris" (Ep. 6), "Shanila Surprise" (Ep. 19) and the final two episodes (Ep. 25 and 26). The in-story time between episodes was estimated to be from a few days to one or two weeks. The fifth episode "Sing for Me" was originally broadcast as the second episode, and viewers expressed concern that Iris had learned her magic too quickly after the first episode.
All episodes were directed by Jean Louis-Vandestoc unless noted. 13 episodes were broadcast in 2014–15 on France 3, and 13 new episodes were broadcast in 2016 on France 4.


=== Season 2 (2017) ===
The LoliRock production team released four of the season 2 episodes on YouTube in French as a special Christmas preview. The English version of the episodes were released on Netflix on 5 January 2017. The episodes were broadcast on France 4 starting 13 February, running two episodes per weekday. 


== References ==

Markham is an unincorporated community in Colvin Township, Saint Louis County, Minnesota, United States.
The community is located between Biwabik and Duluth, near the intersection of County Road 4 (Vermilion Trail) and County Road 108 (Long Lake Road).
Markham is located 19 miles south of the city of Biwabik; and 42 miles north of the city of Duluth.
The Whiteface Reservoir and the Cloquet Valley State Forest in Saint Louis County are both located near Markham.
Residents obtain mail service from the neighboring community of Makinen, ZIP code 55763.


== Geography ==
Markham is located 11 miles southeast of Makinen; and nine miles south of Palo.
Markham's southern border is located 23 miles north of Island Lake on County Road 4 (Governor Rudy Perpich Memorial Drive); and Markham's northern border is County Road 16 (Townline Road), CR 16 serves as a direct east–west route in northeast Minnesota between U.S. Highway 53 and Silver Bay.


== History ==
A post office called Markham was established in 1908, and remained in operation until 1922. The community was named for an early settler.


== References ==

Rand McNally Road Atlas – 2007 edition – Minnesota entry
Official State of Minnesota Highway Map – 2011/2012 edition

Garmo, De Garmo or DeGarmo may refer to:

Charles De Garmo (1849–1934), American educator, education theorist and college president
Chris DeGarmo (born 1963), American guitarist and songwriter, known as a member of the metal band Queensrÿche
Diana DeGarmo (born 1987), singer, songwriter and a Broadway and television actress
Torgeir Garmo (born 1941), Norwegian politician for the Liberal Party
Mary deGarmo Bryan (1891–1986), American dietitian, college professor
Mount Garmo, mountain peak in Tajikistan

A spud gun or potato gun is a small toy gun used to fire a fragment of potato. To operate, one punctures the surface of a potato with the gun's hollow tip and pries out a small pellet which fits in the muzzle. Squeezing the grip causes a small build-up of air pressure inside the toy which propels the projectile. The devices are usually short-range and low-powered.


== Early history ==
The first spud gun was invented during the Great Depression. The original inventor sold his patent to E. Joseph Cossman for US$600 after World War II. Cossman, the brother-in-law of "Uncle" Milton Levine, sold two million spud guns in six months as a result of an advertising campaign.
In Mexico City a company named WELCO created a similar model of a spud gun with a metallic appearance. Tomas Welch, a Mexican Jewish chemical engineer, developed a spud gun named "TIRA PAPAS" (Spanish for "potato shooter").


== See also ==
BB gun
Slingshot


== References ==

Aruna (Sanskrit: अरुण) is the charioteer of Surya (the sun god) in Hinduism. He is the elder brother of Garuda. Aruna and Garuda are the sons of Vedic sage Kashyapa and his wife Vinata, daughter of Prajapati Daksha. His children were the mighty vultures Sampati and Jatayu. He is also found in Buddhism and Jainism literature and arts.


== History ==


=== Birth ===
Aruna is found in different, inconsistent Indian legends. In the epic Mahabharata, he was born prematurely and partially developed from an egg. According to this version, Kashyapa Prajapati's two wives Vinata and Kadru wanted to have children. Kashyapa granted them a boon. Kadru asked for one thousand 'Dirghadeha' (meaning long bodied) Nāga (serpent) sons, while Vinata wanted only two yet extremely strong 'Divyadeha' (meaning emitting golden aura from body), who would excel the thousand sons of Kadru. Kashyapa blessed them, and then went away to a forest. Later, Kadru gave birth to one thousand eggs, while Vinata gave birth to two eggs. These incubated for five hundred years, upon which Kadru broke the eggs open and out came her 1,000 sons. Vinata eager for her sons, broke one of the eggs from which emerged the partially formed Aruna. Since Aruna was born prematurely, only the upper half of his body had developed. Enraged by his mother's haste, he cursed her to become a slave of Kadru for 500 years, upon which her second egg would break and his brother would emancipate her. Having cursed his mother, Aruna rose to the skies, and was bestowed the position of charioteer to Surya by his father, Prajapati Kasyapa. Accordingly, Vinata waited, and later the fully developed mighty eagle, her second born named Garuda (the mount of Lord Vishnu) was born.
The epic narrates that in another tale that Surya began burning intensely, angered by the attacks of Rahu (Rahu swallowing Surya is described to cause solar eclipses in Hindu mythology). The heat was so intense that it started destroying all living beings. Then, the creator Brahma asked Aruna to become the charioteer of Surya, to shield all living beings from his terrible heat.


=== In the epics ===
According to the Ramayana, Aruna was married to Shyeni with whom he had two sons – Jatayu and Sampati. Both of them would play a very important role in the epic.
There is a legend in the Mahabharata that Surya once offered Aruna and his divine chariot to his son Karna which he denied as he didn't want to rely on others to win the war, especially against Arjuna whom he acknowledged as a capable rival.
Another legend, generally told in Indian folk tales linked to the Ramayana, states that Aruna, once became a woman named Aruni and entered an assembly of Apsara (celestial nymphs), where no man except Indra (the king of heaven) was allowed. Indra fell in love with Aruni and fathered a son named Vali from her. The next day, at Surya's request, Aruna again assumed female form, and Surya fathered a son named Sugriva. Both children were given to Ahalya for rearing, but her husband, the sage Gautama cursed them, causing them to turn into monkeys, as he did not like them.


== Citations ==


== General references ==
Dictionary of Hindu Lore and Legend (ISBN 0-500-51088-1) by Anna Dallapiccola
Monier Monier-Williams: A Sanskrit-English Dictionary. Oxford U Pr, 1899.
Robert Graves: The Greek Myths. 1955.
Devī-Bhāgavata Purāṇa 10:13
Mani, Vettam (1975). Puranic Encyclopaedia: a Comprehensive Dictionary with Special Reference to the Epic and Puranic Literature. Motilal Banarsidass Publishers. ISBN 978-0-8426-0822-0.
Freeman, Rich (2001). "Thereupon Hangs a Tail: the Deification of Vali in the Teyyam Worship of Malabar". In Richman, Paula (ed.). Questioning Rāmāyaṇas: a South Asian Tradition. University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-22074-4.

Austin Hudson may refer to:

Sir Austin Hudson, 1st Baronet (1897–1956), British Conservative politician
Austin Hudson (soccer) (born 1959), American soccer player and coach


== See also ==
Austen Hudson (1894–1970), British Conservative politician

Shary Boyle (born May 26, 1972) is a contemporary Canadian visual artist working in the mediums of sculpture using the medium of ceramics, drawing, painting and performance art. She lives and works in Toronto.


== Early life and education ==
Boyle was born in the Toronto suburb of Scarborough, Ontario, the youngest of five children. She attended Wexford Collegiate School for the Arts high school where she studied art and music theatre, then went on to post-secondary studies at the Ontario College of Art, graduating in 1994. She was involved in the Toronto punk and hardcore music scene in her high school and early college years, singing in a band. Her early interest in music and performance incorporated costume, poster and T-shirt design and the creation and free distribution of small photocopied 'zines. Her earliest 'zines and drawings were compiled in the compilation publication "Witness My Shame" (Conundrum Press, 2004). Between 1998–2006 Boyle supplemented her art practice of drawing and painting through published illustration.
In 1998, she began to work with a synthetic polymer clay called Sculpey. Doll maker Vivian Hausle in Seattle in 2002 taught her to understand the medium of porcelain as well as lace draping, a technique for filigrees in lace.


== Art work ==
Shary Boyle works across media and genres, and is known for her representational and narrative symbolism that is personal and at times disturbing. Her work explores themes of gender, identity, sexuality, power and class, evoking emotional and psychic resonance through craftsmanship. She is particularly known for her explorations of the figure through porcelain sculpture. Boyle's earliest porcelain 'figurine' series (2002–2006) used commercial molds and traditional porcelain lace techniques to create sculptures that mined the historical relationship between decoration and excessive ornamentation as it relates to women and gender issues. The series was introduced in a solo exhibition at the Power Plant in Toronto called Lace Figures, curated by Reid Sheir, 2006. Boyle's early experiments with porcelain and her subversion of female hobby-craft from kitsch to contemporary art is credited with reviving porcelain and ceramics as a contemporary art medium in the early 2000s in Toronto, bridging a class divide and questioning the hierarchy between 'low' and 'high' art.


== Selected exhibitions ==
In 2006, she had a 2 person Exhibition with Ben Reeves at Open Studios, Toronto. In 2008, the Southern Alberta Art Gallery in Lethbridge showcased her work in a solo show titled The History of Light, and in 2009 Boyle's work was first exhibited with Kinngait artist Shuvinai Ashoona in the exhibition Noise Ghost at the Justina M. Barnicke Gallery, Art Museum University of Toronto, curated by Nancy Campbell. In 2010, Boyle's first national touring exhibition Flesh and Blood opened at the Art Gallery of Ontario. This exhibition of 28 works — sculpture, installation, paintings, projections - was a joint venture between the Art Gallery of Ontario, Galerie de l’UQAM and the Vancouver Contemporary Art Gallery, and was curated by Louise Déry. Boyle represented Canada at the 2013 Venice Biennale with her project Music for Silence. In the installation was a central component titled The Cave Painter in plaster, of a mermaid, holding a newborn to her breast The Biennial exhibition was accompanied by a catalogue authored by Josée Drouin-Brisebois.  In 2014, she participated in Shine a Light: Canadian Biennial 2014.
Participation in the Venice Biennial was a milestone in her career. Since then, she has had many solo and participated in group exhibitions, most notably with other artists, such as her 10-year drawing/text collaboration with video artist Emily Vey Duke called Shary Boyle & Emily Vey Duke: The Illuminations Project at Oakville Galleries. She also has collaborated for a second time with Shuvinai Ashoona, travelling to the Kinngait Studios on Baffin Island, Nunavik, to do so in 2015. The drawings they created together, as well as their independent drawings and sculptures, were presented in a show titled Universal Cobra in 2015 at the private gallery of Pierre-Francois Ouellette Art Contemporain in Montreal in a co-produced exhibition with Feheley Fine Art in Toronto. The publication "Shuvinai Ashoona and Shary Boyle. Universal Cobra" (You’ve Changed Imprints) was released in 2016. 
Among other group shows in which she took part, many abroad, are Ceramix: Ceramics and art from Rodin to Schutte, organized by the Bonnefantenmuseum in the Netherlands and travelling to La Maison Rouge in Paris, and Cite de la ceramique in Sevres, France in 2016, and the Gyeonggi International Ceramic Biennale in Seoul, South Korea in 2017. She also proposed, researched and co-organized the show Earthlings, an artist-curated exhibition produced by the Esker Foundation in Calgary in 2017.
In addition to her sculpture and performance work, Boyle performs with musicians, creating shadow vignettes and "live" drawings, which are animated and projected onstage using vintage overhead projectors. In 2006, Boyle was invited to perform at the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles in a show titled A Night with Kramers Ergot, where she presented a live solo performance in costume with a curated soundtrack. Boyle collaborated with Doug Paisley to form an opening act for Will Oldham's 10-date 2006 California tour. She has also worked with Feist in Paris, Peaches in Berlin, and Christine Fellows in Canada. In 2012, she collaborated with the latter to present an original theater piece, Everything Under the Moon at the Enwave Theatre in Toronto. In 2014, Boyle and Fellows collaborated on a new live multi-disciplinary performance called Spell to Bring Lost Creature Home, by invitation of the Northern Arts and Cultural Centre. The pair presented Spell to Bring Lost Creatures Home on a five-date small plane tour of the Northwest Territories in October 2014, and across Canada for 10 dates in 2015. In 2016 Boyle presented her first commissioned stage design for Voix de Ville!, a production of the Niagara Artists Centre at the FirstOntario Performing Arts Centre in St Catharines.
Her commission for the public artwork Cracked Wheat  by the Gardiner Museum in Toronto was installed in front of the museum in 2019. In 2021, the Gardiner Museum gave Boyle a solo exhibition Outside the palace of Me, an installation with drawing, ceramic sculpture, mirrors and an interactive score, in which she mined her anxiety about global crises. In 2023, Outside the Palace of Me travelled to the Vancouver Art Gallery.


== Collections ==
Boyle's work is included in many public and private collections, including the National Gallery of Canada, Ottawa, the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, the Art Gallery of Nova Scotia, Halifax, the Musée d'art contemporain de Montréal, and the Art Gallery of Ontario, Toronto. She worked exclusively with the Toronto contemporary commercial art gallery Jessica Bradley Art + Projects from 2007 until she left to become independent in 2014.


== Residencies ==
Boyle is also a public speaker, with an extensive and broadly-based history. In 2014, Boyle was lead faculty on The Universe and Other Systems residency at The Banff Centre. In 2016, she travelled to Kangiqliniq (Rankin Inlet), Nunavik to meet the ceramic artists working at Matchbox Studios, inviting John Kurok and Pierre Aupilardjuk to join her on a ceramic residency at Medalta Historic Potteries in Medicine Hat, Alberta for 2016.


== Awards and distinctions ==
Boyle has won a number of awards and distinctions.

Canada Council for the Arts International Studio Program residency at Space in London, UK, in 2007.
Finalist for the Sobey Art Award in 2007 and 2009.
Gershon Iskowitz Prize in 2009.
Hnatyshyn Foundation Visual Arts Award in 2010.
Represented Canada at the 2013 Venice Biennale.
Honorary Doctorate from OCAD U in Toronto in 2021.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Dery, Louise; Bewley, James; Jacques, Michelle (2010). Shary Boyle: Flesh and Blood. Canada: Galerie de l'UQAM / ABC Art Books Canada. Retrieved January 20, 2021.
Drouin-Brisebois, Josée (2013). Shary Boyle: music for silence = une musique pour le silence = musica per il silenzio. Ottawa: National Gallery of Canada. ISBN 9780888849144. OCLC 856570555. Retrieved September 16, 2021.
Lilley, Claire, ed. (2017). Vitamin C: Clay and Ceramic in Contemporary Art. London, England: Phaidon. ISBN 9780714874609. Retrieved January 20, 2021.
Morineau, Camille; Pesapane, Lucia (2015). Ceramix: Art and Ceramics. From Rodin to Schütte. Ghent, Belgium: Snoeck Publishers. OCLC 933934145.
Wetherilt, Caroline, ed. (2014). Shine a Light, Canadian biennial 2014. Ottawa: National Gallery of Canada. Retrieved January 20, 2021.


== External links ==
Shary Boyle

Arthur Leyland Robinson  (1888–1959) was a physician at the Hospital for Woman at Shaw Street and the Liverpool Maternity Hospital. He later became professor of midwifery and gynaecology at the University of Liverpool. He was a foundation fellow of the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists. He served with the Royal Army Medical Corps during the First World War.


== References ==

Events in the year 2026 in Kosovo.


== Incumbents ==
President: Vjosa Osmani (until 4 April); Albulena Haxhiu (acting, since 4 April)
Prime Minister: Albin Kurti


== Events ==


=== January ===
23 January – Authorities announce the detention of 109 people on suspicion of committing electoral fraud in Prizren during the December 2025 Kosovan parliamentary election.


=== February ===
11 February – The Assembly of the Republic approves a new government after prime minister-designate Albin Kurti wins 66 of 120 votes in the chamber.


=== March ===
5 March – 2026 Kosovan presidential election (first round)
6 March – President Vjosa Osmani dissolves the Assembly of the Republic, attempting to set new parliamentary elections within 45 days after it fails to elect a new president. Vetëvendosje maintains that the constitution allows parliament 60 more days to try to elect a president and challenges Osmani's decree at the Constitutional Court.
9 March – The Constitutional Court issues an injunction that freezes President Osmani's decree dissolving the Assembly of the Republic, while also preventing both the President from calling snap elections and the assembly from carrying out parliamentary business until the Constitutional Court delivers its final ruling.
30 March – Kosovo approves the deployment of troops to the Gaza Strip as part of an international peacekeeping force.


=== April ===
4 April – Albulena Haxhiu becomes acting president following the expiration of Vjosa Osmani's tenure.
24 April – The Basic Court in Pristina sentences three ethnic Serbs to between 30 years to life imprisonment for their role in the Banjska attack in 2023.
28 April – 2026 Kosovan presidential election (second round): The Assembly of the Republic fails to elect a new president, triggering snap parliamentary elections.


=== June ===
7 June – 2026 Kosovan parliamentary election: The ruling Vetevendosje party wins 53 of 120-seats in the Assembly of the Republic.


=== August ===
8 August – AAK MP Time Kadrijaj throws eggs at acting Prime Minister Albin Kurti during a session of the Assembly.


== Deaths ==
1 January – Nexhat Daci, 81, acting president (2006) and chairman of the Assembly (2001–2006).
23 April – Rexhep Qosja, 89, writer, representative to the Interim Administrative Council (1999–2002).
7 June – Fatjon Bunjaku, 22, footballer (Phoenix Banjë, Malisheva, AF Elbasani).


== See also ==
2026 in Europe


== References ==

Manjeshwaram taluk  is the northern most taluk of Kerala which borders Karnataka state. It is located in Kasaragod district, Kerala which was carved out from Kasaragod taluk on 2013.


== Constituent villages ==
Manjeshwaram taluk has 48 revenue villages.

Manjeshwaram Panchayat: Kunjathur, Hosabettu, Udyavar(Manjeshwaram CT), Hosangadi, Badaje
Meenja Panchayat: Meenja, Kadambar, Koliyoor, Kaliyoor, Talakala, Kuloor, Majibail, Moodambail
Vorkady Panchayat: Vorkady, Pavoor, Kodalamogaru, Pathur
Paivalike Panchayat: Paivalike, Chippar, Bayar, Kayyar, Kudalmarkala
Enmakaje Panchayat: Enmakaje, Sheni, Padre, Kattukukke
Puthige Panchayat: Edanad, Badoor, Kannur, Puthige, Angadimogaru, Mugu
Kumbla Panchayat: Kumbla, Ichilampady, Mogral, Bombrana, Arikady, Kidoor, Ujarulvar,
Mangalpady Panchayat: Uppala, Mannamkuzhi, Ichilangod, Mangalpady, Pathwadi, Bekoor, Heroor, Shiriya and Kubanoor


== See also ==
Koliyoor
Manjeshwar Assembly constituency


== References ==

"Blood Ties" is the three-episode sixth season premiere of the American police drama television series Homicide: Life on the Street. The episodes constitute the 78th, 79th and 80th overall episodes of the series. They originally aired on NBC on October 17, 24 and 31, 1997, respectively.
The teleplays were written by Anya Epstein and David Simon, based on a story by Tom Fontana, Julie Martin and James Yoshimura. Directed by Alan Taylor, Nick Gomez and Mark Pellington, "Blood Ties" marked the first appearances of Peter Gerety, Jon Seda and Callie Thorne as regular cast members, replacing outgoing cast members Melissa Leo and Max Perlich. Guest appearances were made by James Earl Jones, Jeffrey Wright, Lynne Thigpen and Mekhi Phifer.
The three episodes were tied together by the story of a murdered Haitian domestic worker employed by wealthy philanthropist Felix Wilson, played by Jones. Protagonists Frank Pembleton and Al Giardello initially refuse to properly investigate the Wilson family out of respect for their success and contributions to the African American community of Baltimore, which leads to tensions and accusations of discrimination within the police department. The storyline serves as a rumination and commentary on racism and classism, even when they come from the best of intentions.
"Blood Ties" included several additional subplots, including murder attempts made against police officers in retaliation for the fatal police shooting of drug dealer Luther Mahoney in the fifth season. The second episode involves a murder at Oriole Park at Camden Yards during a late-season baseball game. In the third episode, police investigate the execution-style slaying of a police informant. According to Nielsen ratings the first episode of "Blood Ties" was viewed by 7.94 million households, the second by 6.86 million households and the third by 6.27 million households. The episodes received generally positive reviews.


== Plot summary ==


=== Part one ===
Pembleton (Andre Braugher) and Bayliss (Kyle Secor) return to the homicide unit after a rotation in robbery, only to find the highest murder clearance rate in five years. A delighted Gee (Yaphet Kotto) credits much of the success to the new detectives Stuart Gharty (Peter Gerety) and Laura Ballard (Callie Thorne). Lewis (Clark Johnson) asks Gee for a different partner, but dodges questions about problems with his old partner Kellerman (Reed Diamond); Gee assigns him to Falsone (Jon Seda), one of the newer detectives, and Kellerman is partnered with Munch (Richard Belzer).
That evening, Gee attends a black-tie dinner honoring his friend Felix Wilson (James Earl Jones), a wealthy businessman and philanthropist. At the hotel where the event is being held, a woman is found beaten to death in the men's bathroom; Pembleton and Bayliss are called to investigate. Felix and his wife Regina (Lynne Thigpen) see the body and identify her as Melia Brierre, a Haitian expatriate working as one of their domestic workers. The Wilsons leave after only brief interviews, and Pembleton becomes agitated when Bayliss asks whether he went easy on them because of his respect for Wilson's contributions to the African-American community.
Meanwhile, a motorcyclist fires shots at the moving car of Lewis and Falsone; the two narrowly avoid injury and the motorcyclist escapes. Almost immediately afterward, the detectives are called to investigate the shooting death of a woman on a nearby street. At the scene they find Stivers (Toni Lewis), who was speaking to the woman when she was shot; police later conclude Stivers was the real target. While Munch and Kellerman are leaving the hotel, somebody opens fire on them and shoots Kellerman in the arm. Falsone suggests the shooter is targeting the detectives who were involved in the previous fatal shooting of drug dealer Luther Mahoney. Kellerman becomes angry when Falsone questions the report of Mahoney's death, which indicates Kellerman shot Mahoney to save Lewis; Falsone said autopsy reports indicate Mahoney was beaten badly.
After questioning several of Mahoney's former associates, drug supplier Wilkie Collins (Robert F. Chew) is pressured into telling Lewis and Falsone the shooter was Mahoney's nephew, Junior Bunk (Mekhi Phifer). They arrest Junior Bunk and find the matching gun, a Desert Eagle pistol, prompting Bunk to admit he shot at the police to "send a message" from his mother, Georgia Rae Mahoney (Hazelle Goodman), over the death of her brother, Luther. Georgia is arrested trying to flee in a jet to the Cayman Islands, where she used to handle Luther's drug money.
Meanwhile, following Brierre's autopsy, Cox (Michelle Forbes) finds somebody had consensual sex with the victim before her death. Pembleton and Bayliss learn from Felix's daughter Thea (Ellen Bethea) that Brierre had a vicious and abusive ex-boyfriend named Kaja. Pembleton and Gee declare Kaja the prime suspect, despite protests from Ballard that the lead is thin and that they have not properly questioned Felix. The episode ends with an imprisoned Georgia Rae Mahoney stating Kellerman will hear from her soon.


=== Part two ===

Two days after Brierre's death, the detectives have made little progress in investigating Kaja, the victim's abusive ex-boyfriend. Ballard and Gharty suggest they look more closely at Felix and his son, Hal (Jeffrey Wright), because Brierre had sex before her death and knew few men socially besides them. Pembleton and Gee, who are both very respectful of Felix's contributions to the black community, dismiss the suggestion. The Baltimore Sun runs a story the next day about the investigation, which Pembleton believes was leaked by Gee in order to distance the Wilsons from the crime. Ballard and Gharty question Hal, who denies having sex with Brierre. After the interview, Gharty tells Ballard that Pembleton and Gee are obstructing the investigation to protect a rich and respected black family.
Pembleton and Bayliss learn Kaja has been in a Haitian prison for four months, eliminating him as a lead. Gee announces the Sun is running a story that Kaja has been cleared as a suspect, leaked from the police. Pembleton accuses Ballard and Gharty of leaking the story, while Gharty accuses Pembleton of going easy on Felix because of his social position. The discussion prompts a heated argument with accusations of racism from both sides. Pembleton agrees to interview Felix alone because he believes it will clear him. When he tells Felix he needs a blood test from him and his son, Felix admits that he had consensual sex with Brierre the night of the murder but denies killing her. Later, a devastated Pembleton and Gee still insist he should not necessarily be treated as a suspect, much to the disbelief of Ballard and Gharty. The detectives are interrupted by Felix's attorney, who says the family will not submit to a blood and hair test without a court order.
Meanwhile, Munch and Kellerman investigate a murder at Camden Yards during a late-season baseball game, leaving 48,000 possible suspects. The Long Island man, presumably a Yankees fan, is found beaten to death outside the stadium, and the governor pressures the Baltimore Police Department to solve the murder before the game ends so that millions in tourism dollars and ticket revenues will not be jeopardized. After several fruitless interviews, Munch and Kellerman question Scott Russell (Brian Tarantina), a New Yorker who attended the game with the victim. Russell admits he killed the victim because he said the Baltimore Orioles were a better team than the Yankees. He agrees to confess if the detectives let him watch the rest of the game. Back at the station, Falsone continues questioning detectives about the Mahoney shooting. Stivers expresses concern to Lewis that their covering for Kellerman's role in the shooting could bring both of them down if Falsone continues his questioning.


=== Part three ===
The Sun runs a front-page story accusing the homicide unit of protecting the Wilsons based on their race. Under pressure from his superiors, Gee demands they solve the murder immediately. Pembleton admits privately to his wife Mary (Ami Brabson) that he let his personal feelings of respect for Felix get in the way of the investigation. After searching the Wilson residence, the detectives find love letters written by Hal to Brierre. Pembleton questions Felix and Hal, who agree to talk only if their statements are not admissible in court. Pembleton presents them with the love letters, which Hal said he never had the courage to give to Brierre. Felix said he would not have had sex with Brierre if he had known, which Hal said he does not believe. Felix demands the truth from Hal, who admits to killing Brierre in a jealous rage upon learning of her affair with his father.
When Pembleton begins to read Hal his Miranda rights, Felix stops him and refuses to let him arrest his son. Later, prosecuting attorney Ed Danvers (Željko Ivanek) says because the confession is inadmissible, they have no evidence to arrest Hal and he refuses to issue an arrest warrant against a member of a prominent family without a solid case. The Wilsons decide to move to San Diego, and Felix tells Pembleton he will do everything he can to continue protecting his son. Pembleton and Ballard make a reluctant truce and, although Pembleton remains cold with her, he admits he was wrong about the Wilsons and that Ballard's instincts were correct. Gee tells Pembleton he too let his personal feelings cloud his judgment, and the two agree they will bring Hal back to Baltimore when they get enough evidence against him.
Meanwhile, Lewis and Falsone investigate the execution-style shootings of Wilkie Collins and his wife, presumably in retaliation for Collins cooperating with police in the capture of Georgia Rae Mahoney. They find Collins' young son Jack (Marc John Jefferies) hiding in a closet at the house, but he is too terrified to answer any of their questions. Falsone takes Jack to a park, where they bond over their mutual love of cars, and Falsone teaches him how to hotwire a vehicle. More comfortable with the police, Jack tells Falsone that a man identifying himself as Robert on Collins' answering machine has the same voice as the killer. A disturbed Stivers recognizes the voice as belonging to Detective Robert Castleman (Lance Lewman). After Jack identifies Castleman in a lineup, Lewis and Falsone confront him with the evidence during questioning, pressuring Castleman to confess to the murder. Castleman said Georgia Rae Mahoney blackmailed him into killing Collins by threatening to reveal Castleman had been on Luther's payroll.


== Production ==
The story from "Blood Ties" was conceived by executive director Tom Fontana, and supervising producers James Yoshimura and Julie Martin. The first and third episode teleplays were written by producer Anya Epstein, with the second penned by producer David Simon. The three episodes were each directed by Alan Taylor, Nick Gomez and Mark Pellington, respectively. "Blood Ties" originally premiered in October 1997, about one month later than originally planned, which angered fans of the show. The delay is indicated by the regular-season baseball game prominently featured in the second episode of the arc, despite the fact that the 1997 Baltimore Orioles season ended in September.
"Blood Ties" featured the first appearances of Peter Gerety, Jon Seda and Callie Thorne as regular cast members on Homicide: Life on the Street. Thorne portrayed Laura Ballard, a former Seattle homicide unit detective, marking the character's first appearance in the series. Gerety and Seda each previously played their respective characters in guest appearances on the show; Seda's character Paul Falsone first appeared in the two-part fifth-season finale. Stuart Gharty, Gerety's character, is described as a transplant from the department's internal affairs department. Executive producer Tom Fontana said he thought the new cast additions would create drama and tension between the characters: "It's stimulating to add new people, because you're not feeling like you're writing or acting the same scene for the thousandth time, and I think all three of them are very different than any other characters we've had on the show."
During her audition for the show, Thorne read the lines from the Pembleton character in a previous episode. She said of her audition, "I said, 'So what do you want me to do? Do you want me to be a female Pembleton?' And they were like, 'Well we don't want to say that but that's sort of the idea." Thorne said the producers were looking for "a certain type in terms of a strong woman who could keep up with all the men" and that they incorporated elements of Thorne's own personality into the character, such as the strong amount of trust she has in her instincts. Thorne also said she was treated well by the cast, but upon starting, "I was very aware of the fact that it's predominantly men, and I have no problem saying that as a small, dark woman I was terrified. I thought I was going to be put through the ringer [sic]."  Gerety, when asked about his experience joining the show, said only, "It's interesting. It's really interesting."
The new regular characters replaced outgoing cast members Melissa Leo and Max Perlich, who did not return for the sixth season. In the episode, Leo's character Kay Howard was said to be working full-time with the department's fugitive unit; actress Leo reportedly left the show so she could devote more time to her family. Perlich was allegedly fired from the series, and within the episode his character J. H. Brodie was said to have left police work after a documentary he filmed was aired on PBS and won an Emmy Award. Commentators said the Emmy mention, and a joke by Munch that "they give those things to anybody", were references to the show's failure to secure a nomination for Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series during its first five seasons. Armando Benítez and Scott Erickson, then pitchers with the Baltimore Orioles, make cameo appearances as themselves in the second "Blood Ties" episode.
The Wilson murder is a "red ball", a police case involving an innocent victim, widely known suspects or a combination of the two. Red ball cases tend to draw attention from the media, the public and high-ranking police brass, and often result in additional detectives being added to the case. Fontana thought these elements of the red ball case would help produce a strong season premiere and tension among the veteran characters who resent the meddling of the new detectives. Julie Martin, one of the show's writers and supervising producers, said "Blood Ties" marked a deliberate change in the series, focusing on darker story lines that are "a little messier and unresolved" and more interpersonal relationships: "The show's been on for six seasons, and it absolutely has to change. We can't keep doing the same show." Media outlets noted that "Blood Ties" included more action-oriented elements such as car chases and a chase sequence involving helicopters at an airport. Fontana denied allegations of tampering from NBC executives and said any such changes would have come from him: "I don't want us to have a style every week that we feel we have to conform to. ... I want people not to know what to expect when they tune in every week. We're not formulaic."
The New York Yankees baseball team refused to give Homicide: Life on the Street permission to use the Yankees logo in the episode, which Fontana said angered the writers and inspired them to portray Yankees fans in a particularly negative light. Fontana, a New York native himself, was later apologetic about this portrayal and said, "I kept telling the guys they were being a little harsh on the Yankees". The names "Stringfield" and "Doherty" can be seen under Ballard's case list on the white board. The names were purposely inserted as an inside joke to Homicide fans as a reference to online rumors that cast member Melissa Leo was to be replaced by actors Shannen Doherty or Sherry Stringfield. The false rumors were actually leaked by Tom Fontana himself to keep fans guessing.
"Blood Ties" and the rest of the sixth-season episodes were included in the six-DVD box-set Homicide: Life on the Street: The Complete Season 6, which was released by A&E Home Video on January 25, 2005, for $99.95.


== Themes ==
In portraying black members of the police department ignoring legitimate evidence to protect a prominent member of Baltimore's African American community, "Blood Ties" touches simultaneously on themes of police misconduct and racism, however inadvertent, from the characters of Pembleton and Gee. Because the episode involves discrimination among black characters, "Blood Ties" has been described as an example of "reverse racism", even though the majority of Baltimore's population is black. The episode also includes elements of classism, since Pembleton and Gee treat Felix Wilson differently than they would another black suspect based on his financial success and charitable contributions to the city and African American community.
Most of these themes are most overtly addressed during a climatic argument between Pembleton, Ballard and Gharty in the "Blood Ties" arc's second episode. When Ballard and Gharty suggest questioning Felix and Hal Wilson because the murder victim had sex the night she was killed, Pembleton accuses them of reverting to old stereotypes about black male sexuality, namely "that black men can't control themselves when it comes to blue shoes and tight pants". When Gharty describes Baltimore as a black-run town that protects its own, Pembleton points out similar practices were carried out in Baltimore history by the Italian Americans and Irish Americans when they primarily controlled the city; in particular, Pembleton says, "How many favors have been called in in the name of the Knights of Columbus or the St. Michael's Society, huh?"
Roger Wilkins, a history professor at George Mason University who studies race in the United States, said "Blood Ties" provided "insightful, wonderful explorations on the complexities of many levels of race." He also said the show "really does understand how we're all caught in this culture, and we're all struggling with it. And we all bring to this jagged enterprise the limited understanding of where we came from and who we are. Being fully alive requires us to struggle with these realities. That's what the show does." In his journal article about the portrayal of African American men in Homicide: Life on the Street, documentary historian Thomas A. Mascaro said the presentation of light-skinned black villains like Luther Mahoney and dark-skinned actors like the one played by James Earl Jones in "Blood Ties", "dispels the notion that black skin color is uniform or determinative with regard to character". Some media outlets described the Watson subplot as a racial spin on the 1996 murder of six-year-old child beauty pageant queen JonBenét Ramsey, although Tom Fontana said any similarities were not intended.


== Reception ==
The first episode of "Blood Ties" received an 8.1 Nielsen rating, which constituted 7.94 million households at the time. The episode outperformed Homicide's time-slot competitor, CBS's Nash Bridges, by about 588,000 households, although ABC's 20/20 beat both shows with 11.37 million households. The second and third episodes of "Blood Ties", however, finished behind both shows each week. The second episode received a 7.0 rating, which constituted 6.86 million households, compared to 7.94 million for Nash Bridges and 11.37 million for 20/20. The third episode received a 6.4 rating, which constituted 6.27 million views, compared to 7.94 million for Nash Bridges and 10.98 million for 20/20.

"Blood Ties" received generally positive reviews. The Baltimore Sun television critic David Zurawik described it as "one of the most serious, frank and compelling discussions of race in any medium" since an episode of NYPD Blue from 1995, in which actor Dennis Franz used the word "nigger". Mike Duffy of the Detroit Free Press described "Blood Ties" as "explosive (and) riveting", and wrote, "The smart, darkly humorous writing on Homicide is as strong as ever. So are the performances of a superb ensemble of actors." R.D. Heldenfels of the Akron Beacon Journal praised the episodes and called them "a complicated rumination on race and class". David Bianculli of the New York Daily News said the episode had an unpredictability that helped maintain the show's vitality, and said of the first two episodes, "Except for one moment in tonight's opener, I was on the edge of my seat for the entire two hours; at that moment, a surprise shooting shocked me right onto my feet." Newsday writer Verne Gay described "Blood Ties" as "brilliant drama" and "a superb piece of work (that) appears to be a novel variation on reverse discrimination". Regarding the first of the three episodes, Dallas Morning News writer Ed Bark said Seda and Thorne had "solid first impressions" and that the episode arc "has all the makings of another killer story line". Virginia Rohan of The Record of Bergen County, New Jersey, called the episode "gripping" and "another strong start for a terrific series".
Tony Norman of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette praised the episode, which he said "has wandered into the heart of Dostoyevsky territory with its storylines". He particularly praised the episode for going outside its normal conventions by portraying lead characters like Pembleton and Gee as being so reluctant to do the right thing. Alan Pergament of The Buffalo News gave the episode four out of five stars; he particularly praised the performances of Thorne and Gerety, and said the show did an impressive job of introducing the new cast members. Michael Storey of Arkansas Democrat-Gazette said "Blood Ties" lived up to the high standards he said the show had set for itself. Ron Miller of Fort Worth Star-Telegram praised "Blood Ties", although he said he does not always enjoy Homicide: Life on the Street. He said the episode "starts fast and gets better and more intense by the minute", and described the climactic argument in the second episode as "the most turbulent internal dispute we've ever seen among the detectives". Rocky Mountain News writer Dusty Saunders praised the main story-line and said the subplots were well juxtaposed into the episode. He also said "Blood Ties" could serve as a good introduction to the series for new viewers. Alan Sepinwall, television critic for The Star-Ledger, criticized the addition of "silly" action-oriented scenes the traditionally more intelligent show, but praised "Blood Ties" and the addition of the new cast members. Sepinwall particularly praised the acting of Andre Braugher: "Pitted against a powerhouse like James Earl Jones, he not only holds his own, but at times is so dramatically forceful that the former voice of Darth Vader sounds intimidated." Not all reviews of "Blood Ties" were positive. Joanne Ostrow of The Denver Post said the series benefited from the new characters, but that the episode "asks viewers to believe rather too strongly in the inherent racism of certain characters we've come to know as heroes in seasons past". Ostrow also thought Pembleton's clashes with the new detectives was predictable.


== References ==


== External links ==
"Blood Ties: Part 1" at IMDb
"Blood Ties: Part 2" at IMDb
"Blood Ties: Part 3" at IMDb

This was the first edition of the tournament.
Arianne Hartono and Olivia Tjandramulia won the title, defeating María Lourdes Carlé and Julieta Estable in the final, 6–4, 2–6, [10–7].


== Seeds ==


== Draw ==
Key


=== Draw ===


== References ==
Main Draw

Bacterial wilt of turfgrass is the only known bacterial disease of turf. The causal agent is the Gram negative bacterium Xanthomonas translucens pv. graminis (syn. X. campestris pv. graminis). The first case of bacterial wilt of turf was reported in a cultivar of creeping bentgrass known as Toronto or C-15, which is found throughout the midwestern United States. Until the causal agent was identified in 1984, the disease was referred to simply as C-15 decline. This disease is almost exclusively found on putting greens at golf courses where extensive mowing creates wounds in the grass which the pathogen uses in order to enter the host and cause disease.


== Hosts and symptoms ==
Creeping bentgrass (Agrostis stolonifera) and annual bluegrasses (Poa annua) are the makeup of most putting greens, as well as the preferred hosts of this pathogen. Specifically, Toronto (C-15), Seaside, and Nemisilla are the cultivars of creeping bentgrass most commonly affected. The bacteria enter the plant host and interfere with water and nutrient flow, causing the plant to look drought stressed and to take on a blueish-purple color. Additionally, symptoms of bacterial wilt of turf grass include yellow leaf spots, tan or brown spots, water soaked lesions, elongated yellow leaves and shriveling of aforementioned blue or dark green leaves. Since putting greens are not a pure stand of turf, some grass blades may be resistant to the bacterium and thus remain unharmed while the surrounding turf dies, rendering the putting surface inconsistent and unsightly, especially at high-end golf courses.


== Disease cycle ==
The bacterium overwinters in diseased plants and thatch and is disseminated by water through rain splash, or mechanically by mowers, hoses, other gardening equipment, and golf shoes. The pathogen can also be present in the host at planting in infected sprigs, sod, or plugs. Unlike fungi, bacterial plant pathogens are unable to wound or mechanically probe plant hosts on their own. Instead, these pathogens enter through wounds inflicted on plants through verticutting, cultivation, sand, or through natural openings such as stomates and hydathodes. Once they have successfully entered and colonized the plant host, bacterial plant pathogens commandeer the nutrient and water supplies of plant cells to aid their own reproduction. In a study conducted by Zhou et al. (2013), the time between inoculation and wilt of host plants was found to depend heavily on temperature, with higher temperatures resulting in more rapid host decline. The researchers report the time between inoculation and wilting of host plants to be between 9–42 days. Bacteria can also spread to the roots of nearby plants underground. Within the plant host itself, bacteria spread by multiplying through binary fission and taking over more and more of the host by simply increasing their numbers.


== Environment ==
Prolonged periods of wetness and/or poorly drained soils, followed by warm, sunny days and cool nights constitute the optimal conditions for bacterial wilt. Thus, transitions between spring and summer, and summer and autumn are usually accompanied by increases in bacterial wilt of turf grass as these seasonal changes, especially in the early fall, bring sustained rainfalls and longer, cooler nights. Bacterial wilt of turf grass has been reported in several regions of Illinois, as well as other Midwestern states such as Michigan, Ohio, and Wisconsin. Antiserum produced from an isolate of this pathogen in Illinois was found to have reacted to another such isolate from Europe, suggesting that the pathogen was brought over to North America from Europe. In fact, a survey of wheat and rye fields in Western Scotland demonstrated Xanthomonas campestris pv. graminis infection in 71% of the fields, with rye grass bearing the most infection. Meadow fescue from the same fields also demonstrated susceptibility to the pathogen under laboratory conditions, further pointing to Europe as the potential origin of this pathogen in the United States.


== Management ==
General biocides such as copper, Junction, or ZeroTol offer a potential solution to bacterial wilt of turf grass; however, such chemical control agents must be applied after every mowing which may be economically impractical and ultimately phytotoxic. If bacterial wilt is present of the golf course, the best option may be to designate a mower for use on infected greens only in order to prevent the spread of the pathogen to other greens.  Other viable methods include simply limiting the number of wounds the plant incurs, thereby limiting entry sites for the pathogen. A simple example would be less frequent mowing. It has also been proven that the disease is most devastating in grass cut to a length of between 1/8 and 3/16 of an inch, but less so in grass over 1/4 of an inch in length or longer, which presents an additional argument for limiting mowing. Another example is limiting sand topdressing as this is also a very abrasive technique which can create small wounds which allow entry of bacteria into the plant.
A major factor complicating the control of Xanthomonas translucens is weather. While it is not possible to control the weather per se, a study found great decreases in pathogen efficacy at temperatures below 20 °C, suggesting that cooling measures may be effective in combating this pathogen.
Ideally, resistant strains of the host plant should be used to control such a plant pathogen; however, no resistant cultivars of turf grass have been identified to date. While no completely resistant cultivars exist, certain cultivars such as Penncross and Penneagle are more resistant to bacterial wilt and may thus reduce the need for frequent chemical applications and other cultural controls. Researchers are making gains towards the identification of resistant cultivars as evidenced by the finding that variation in genetic linkage groups 1, 4, and 6 accounted for over 43% of resistance among Italian rye grass.
A 1987 study found evidence of a possible biocontrol strategy for bacterial wilt of turf grass. The researchers found that antiserum to Pseudomonas fluorescens or Erwinia herbicola from hosts which have survived infections by the corresponding pathogens is capable of reducing wilt symptoms in turf grass caused by Xanthomonas translucens. The researchers did note, however, that while it is important to ensure the presence of a higher number of competing bacterial cells in order to reduce symptoms, one should take care to avoid over-infecting the host with a new bacterial pathogen.

Further gains towards host resistance were made in 2001 when researchers found that inoculation of meadow fescue during breeding with a single aggressive strain of the bacterial wilt pathogen greatly increased resistance in offspring, thereby demonstrating the potential of selective breeding to reduce bacterial wilt pathogenesis on turf and rye grasses.


== Importance ==
The impact of bacterial wilt of turf grass was perhaps most poignant when the disease destroyed the Toronto greens at the Butler National Golf Course in Illinois, just days before the PGA Western Open was set to take place there in 1980. While bacterial wilt of turf has plagued golf courses for many years, ongoing climate change may exacerbate its prominence, as the causal agent, Xanthomonas translucens, prefers the persistent rainfalls and cool nights which tend to accompany weather changes.


== References ==

Pietro Abbati Marescotti (1 September 1768 – 7 May 1842) was an Italian mathematician who taught in Modena.


== Biography ==
Born in Modena, Pietro Abbati descended from a 16th-century noble family who were related to the Marescotti local family. In acknowledgment of his mathematical and artistic distinction, and in return for his services managing the water and street systems of Modena, Abbati was permitted in 1818 to add the name Marescotti to his own surname.
He was born in Modena and received a superior education in mathematics at the university there, studying with Luigi Fantini, Paolo Cassiani and Giovanni Battista Venturi. In an 1802 letter to his friend Paolo Ruffini, Abbati extended the proof to the unsolvability of equations of degree greater than five. In 1807, he was named as an advisor to Francis IV, Duke of Modena. Three years later, he became ministry of state economics and education, with particular responsibility for waterworks and streets.
In 1824, he published On a problem of Daniel Bernoulli and Lagrange. In 1826, he was named a member of the Accademia nazionale delle scienze detta dei XL ("National Association of the Sciences", also known as "Academy of the Forty"), a learned society composed of forty eminent Italian scientists.


== Mathematics ==
He was friends with Paolo Ruffini his entire life, and engaged in mathematical research with him (although without any official recognition), especially in the areas of algebraic equations, probability, and group theory. Indeed, it appears that Abbati suggested the idea of group theory to Ruffini, who subsequently expanded it.
Abbati's investigations and exchanges with Ruffini also examined diophantine equations, prime numbers, the specification of the number of imaginary roots as compared with the results of Pietro Paoli, the relation among the roots and the coefficients of an equation, the Cartesian rule for incomplete equations, the properties of permutations of the roots of quartic and quintic equations, the equation of differences, rational functions of roots, resolution by approximation, and the related Lagrange multipliers.
The thirty letters which Abbati wrote to Ruffini are now housed in the Ruffini Archive of the Biblioteca Estense in Modena. All the letters remain unpublished except one published by Ettore Bortolotti in an edition of Ruffini's correspondence.


== References ==


== External links ==
O'Connor, John J.; Robertson, Edmund F., "Pietro Abbati Marescotti", MacTutor History of Mathematics Archive, University of St Andrews

Nikolaos Kantounis or Kandounis (Greek: Νικόλαος Καντούνης; 1767–1834) was a Greek priest, painter and teacher who did not follow the traditional Maniera Greca. His teacher was the famous painter Nikolaos Koutouzis. He began to incorporate the Maniera Italiana into the Heptanese School. Kantounis, Panagiotis Doxaras, Nikolaos Doxaras and  Koutouzis were all prolific members of that school. Kantounis was one of the most important painters in the Neoclassical Period in Greece. He was a representative of the middle to late Modern Greek Enlightenment in Greek art. Over 164 of his paintings have survived. He is known for painting many portraits. Some of his works resemble the style of Nikolaos Doxaras.  He was also a member of the secret organization for Greek Independence called the Filiki Eteria.


== Biography ==

He was born in Zakynthos to a very wealthy and educated family. Records indicate Nikolaos was baptized on January 28, 1768. His father, Ioannis, was a doctor and a famous poet. His first teacher was the Greek poet Antonios Martelaos.
The Greek painter, Ioannis Korais, provided his first art lessons. He also worked in the studios of Nikolaos Koutouzis, who is rumored to have expelled him out of jealousy. He would later claim to be largely self-taught. His style was influenced by both Panagiotis Doxaras and Nikolaos Doxaras. 
In 1786, he was ordained a priest and took a position at the church of Evangelistria in Zakynthos. By 1803, he had been hired by the executive committee of Agia Paraskevi church in Zakynthos to paint 12 icons depicting theological stories. Many of his church decorations have been destroyed by earthquakes.   
He was a member of the secret Greek society  Filiki Eteria (Society of Friends); a group dedicated to overthrowing Ottoman rule. In 1821, he was exiled by the British because of his subversive activities. They sent him to the island of Kyra, near Cephalonia. While he was there he painted a version of the Last Supper. He was not able to return home until after the recognition of Greek Independence in 1832.
In 1823, he was honored with the rank of Grand Sakellarios and, in 1825, he was mentioned in the codex of Saint Catherine of Siena in Zakynthos. Records indicate he was paid 100 thalers to create paintings for the church.
He died on April 25, 1834. He was about 66 years old and left a detailed will, which had interesting information about his life and property. Some of his students were the famous Greek painters Gerasimos Pitsamanos, Dionysios Tsokos and Dionysios Kallivokas. He was one of the earliest members of the modern Greek art period.
Kantounis paintings can be found at the National Gallery of Greece, the Benaki Museum, the Municipal Gallery of Larissa, the Teloglion Foundation of Arts etc.


== Gallery ==


== Notable works ==
Elisabeth Moutzan-Martinegko, ca 1832 National Gallery of Athens
Lamentation of Christ (Kantounis)


== See also ==
Andrea Mantegna


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Nikolaos Kantounis at Wikimedia Commons

More paintings by Kantounis @ the "ΠΕΡΙ ΤΕΧΝΗΣ Ο ΛΟΓΟΣ" blog.

Gantimur (Mongolian: Гүн Төмөр; Chinese: 根特木; pinyin: Gēntèmù; Russian: Гантимур; died 1685) was a Daurian tribal chief and military leader who became a pivotal figure in the struggle between the Qing dynasty and the Tsardom of Russia for control over the Amur River basin and Transbaikalia. By defecting to the Russians in 1667, he brought a large body of indigenous warriors and their territories under Russian protection, fundamentally altering the balance of power in the region and laying the groundwork for the eventual establishment of the Sino-Russian border. He is the ancestor of the Russian princely Gantimurov family, which for centuries held influence in eastern Siberia. His date of birth is unrecorded; he was born on the Nercha River, near what later became Nerchinsk.


== Early life and tribal background ==
Gantimur was born into the ruling stratum of the Daur tribes, a Mongolic-speaking people who inhabited the valleys of the upper Amur and its tributaries, including the Shilka, Argun, and Nercha rivers. The Daurs practiced a mixed economy of agriculture, hunting, and livestock herding, and lived in fortified settlements with wooden palisades. They were organised into clans, each headed by a hereditary chief. Gantimur's immediate family also had strong ties to the neighbouring Evenk (Tungus) tribes, through marriage and traditional alliances. The name Gantimur is of Mongolian origin, combining gan (steel) and tömör (iron), indicating the high value placed on martial qualities.
Crucially, Gantimur was related by blood to the imperial house of the Jurchen Later Jin dynasty, the precursors of the Qing. This connection came through his mother's line, which linked him to the descendants of Nurhaci, the founder of the Qing. Such kinship gave him considerable prestige among the tribal confederations of the Amur and ensured that his later defection was seen by the Qing court not only as a military loss but as a personal affront to the imperial family.


== The geopolitical situation in the Amur basin (1640s–1660s) ==
By the middle of the 17th century, two expansionist powers were converging on the Amur region. From the south, the newly established Qing dynasty was consolidating its hold over Manchuria and sought to incorporate the tribes of the Amur into its tributary system. Qing expeditions had reached the Amur by the 1640s, extracting oaths of allegiance and demanding furs, ginseng, and other resources. From the north, Russian explorers and Cossacks had crossed Siberia and reached the Pacific Ocean in 1639. In 1651, Yerofey Khabarov's expedition built a fort at Albazin on the Amur, and by the 1650s a string of Russian forts, including Kumarsk and Nerchinsk (founded 1653), dotted the region.
Conflict was inevitable. The Qing viewed the Amur tribes as their vassals and the Russian presence as an intrusion. The Russians, for their part, saw the fur-rich Amur as a natural extension of their eastward advance. Indigenous communities were caught between the two empires, often forced to choose sides. This is the context in which Gantimur made his fateful decision.


== Service under the Qing ==
Gantimur initially accepted Qing suzerainty. In 1654, responding to the entreaties of the Shunzhi Emperor, he travelled to the Qing court at Beijing. There he was formally enrolled among the ranks of the imperial banner officers and given command of a cavalry force composed of his own Evenk and Daur followers. Estimates of the number of horsemen vary, but contemporary Russian accounts speak of 8,000 cavalry under his command, while Chinese sources mention a similarly substantial force. He was ordered to lead these warriors into Inner Mongolia as part of the Qing's mobile defence against Russian incursions.
For more than a decade, Gantimur and his men guarded the frontier, but the relationship with the Qing soured. The Qing imposed heavy tribute obligations on the Amur tribes, and military conscription disrupted traditional economic life. Moreover, the Manchu authorities treated the Daur chiefs as subordinate commanders, not as equals. Gantimur, accustomed to the autonomy of a tribal leader, chafed under this subordination.


== Defection to Russia (1667) ==
The immediate trigger for defection came in 1667. That year, after a series of disputes with Qing officials, Gantimur decided to abandon the Qing and return to his ancestral lands on the Nercha River. He took with him his immediate family, about forty tribal elders, and a substantial number of common tribespeople. The exact number is uncertain, but the defection was large enough to dramatically weaken Qing authority in the upper Amur region.
Gantimur made contact with the Russian commander at Nerchinsk, the voevoda (governor) of the fort, and offered his allegiance to Tsar Alexis. The Russians, acutely aware of the value of such an ally, welcomed him. Gantimur's knowledge of the terrain, his tribal connections, and his military force turned the Nerchinsk fort from an isolated outpost into the centre of a network of allied indigenous groups.
The Qing response was swift. The Kangxi Emperor dispatched envoys to Nerchinsk with letters demanding Gantimur's return. The emperor offered to pardon him and restore his rank, and even proposed exchanging him for Russian prisoners held in Beijing. Gantimur refused all such overtures. According to Russian records, he told the envoys that he had been poorly treated by the Qing and preferred the Russians, who allowed him to live according to his own customs. The Qing court was furious. Gantimur's continued absence became a central point of contention in the decades-long diplomatic wrangling that culminated in the Treaty of Nerchinsk in 1689.


== Integration into the Russian Empire ==
Following his defection, Gantimur settled permanently at Nerchinsk, where the tsar's government granted him a residence known as the "Wooden Palace" (Derevyanny dvorets). He was placed in command of the local Tungus and Mongol tribes, acting as a yasak (tribute) collector and military organiser for the Russians. His authority was considerable; he effectively governed the indigenous population of the Nerchinsk district on behalf of the Russian crown.
In 1684, Gantimur formally converted to Russian Orthodoxy. The baptism took place either at Tobolsk, the ecclesiastical centre of Siberia, or at Nerchinsk itself, with high-ranking clergy officiating. He received the Christian name Peter (Pyotr). At the same time, the tsar ennobled him, granting the title of knyaz (prince) and establishing the hereditary Gantimurov family as part of the Russian nobility. The arms granted to the family incorporate symbols of their Siberian origins: a bow and arrow, a sabre, and a silver river, set on a blue field.


== Death and burial ==
In 1685, the Russian government summoned Gantimur to Moscow. The purpose was likely to consult him about the ongoing border negotiations with the Qing, or to present him at the court of the young Tsar Ivan V and Tsar Peter I. Gantimur set out with a retinue but fell ill during the long journey. He died near the small settlement of Narym on the Ob River in western Siberia. He was buried there, far from his homeland. The precise location of his grave is now lost.


== Legacy and historical significance ==
Gantimur's defection had far-reaching consequences that extended well beyond his own lifetime. In immediate terms, it secured the Russian hold on Nerchinsk and the surrounding Transbaikal region. The Qing demand for his return was a major issue in the negotiations that produced the Treaty of Nerchinsk (1689), the first treaty between China and a European power. By remaining in Russian service, Gantimur gave the tsar a strong bargaining position and ensured that the frontier would be fixed along the Argun and Gorbitsa rivers, leaving Nerchinsk and much of Transbaikalia in Russian hands.
The Gantimurov princely family continued to play a prominent role in Siberian affairs. His descendants served as voevody (governors) of Nerchinsk, commanded Cossack regiments, and participated in the exploration and administration of the Russian Far East. Over the centuries, they intermarried with other noble houses and retained their title and estates. The family coat of arms is recorded in the General Armorial of the Noble Families of the Russian Empire.
In a broader sense, Gantimur's story illustrates the complex dynamics of empire-building on the early modern frontier. He was neither a simple collaborator nor a passive victim; rather, he navigated the clash of empires to maximise his own autonomy and the welfare of his people. His defection exemplifies how indigenous leaders could shape the course of imperial expansion, tipping the balance between competing powers.


== In historical memory and scholarship ==
Gantimur's biography was first systematically recorded in the Eminent Chinese of the Ch'ing Period (1943), where the Russian scholar A. V. Iiarakueff wrote the entry. Since then, he has been studied by historians of both Russia and China. Western scholarship, particularly Peter C. Perdue's China Marches West (2005), has placed him at the centre of the Qing–Russian frontier narrative. In Russia, the Gantimurov family history has been the subject of genealogical research, and the old Nerchinsk fort, along with the architectural legacy of the region, remains a point of local pride.
Local museums in the Zabaykalsky Krai (the former Chita Oblast) contain exhibits on the Gantimurov family, and the name Gantimur appears in regional toponyms and folklore. While not widely known outside specialist circles, he is recognised as a foundational figure in the history of Russian-Chinese relations.


== See also ==
Treaty of Nerchinsk
Amur Annexation
Daur people
Nerchinsk
Gantimurov family


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Dmytryshyn, Basil, et al. (eds.). Russia's Conquest of Siberia, 1558–1700: A Documentary Record. Portland: Oregon Historical Society Press, 1985.
Perdue, Peter C. China Marches West: The Qing Conquest of Central Eurasia. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2005.
Stephan, John J. The Russian Far East: A History. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1994.
Gamsa, Mark. Manchuria: A Concise History. London: Bloomsbury Publishing, 2020.

The 2016 Big South men's basketball tournament was held from March 3–6, 2016, at the Pope Convocation Center in Buies Creek, North Carolina on the campus of Campbell University. UNC Asheville won the tournament and received the Big South's automatic bid to the 2016 NCAA tournament.


== Site ==
Coastal Carolina was originally scheduled to host the basketball tournament for a fourth consecutive year, but, on August 30, 2015, the school announced that they would be joining the Sun Belt Conference effective July 1, 2016. Big South bylaws state that member schools leaving the conference with less than two years notice are not eligible to host championships.


== Seeds ==
All 11 conference teams were eligible for the tournament. The top five teams received a first round bye. Teams were seeded by record within the conference, with a tiebreaker system to seed teams with identical conference records. 


== Schedule ==


== Bracket ==


== References ==

Lycée César Baggio is a senior high school in Lille, France.
It was formed in the year 1961 when the Collège Technique Baggio was converted into a senior high school.


== References ==


== External links ==

Lycée César Baggio (in French)
Cité César Baggio (in French)
Baggio Prép (in French)

There are several rusts (Pucciniales syn. Uredinales) which affect rye (Secale cereale) including:

Puccinia spp.:
Stem rust (Puccinia graminis)
Leaf rust (Puccinia triticina)
Crown rust (Puccinia coronata)


== See also ==
List of rye diseases

Canales Reservoir is a reservoir in Güéjar Sierra, province of Granada, Andalusia, Spain.


== See also ==
List of reservoirs and dams in Andalusia


== External links ==

Agencia del agua Junta de Andalucía (in Spanish)
Reservoirs status summary (in Spanish)
Confederación Hidrográfica del Guadalquivir (in Spanish)

Red directors (Russian: Красные директора) is a term in Soviet, post-Soviet and in Russian economics and politics, currently designating people from the Soviet industrial and managerial elite, directors of enterprises who took leading positions in the Soviet era and remained in them after the transition of Russia and the CIS countries to a market economy. In this sense, the term came into circulation at the suggestion of Nezavisimaya Gazeta and Kommersant in the early 1990s.
Red directors had informal connections, large team management skills and had a bright understanding of industrial technologies. Thanks to that, often an alliance between a large investor and an old red director emerged. According to Anatoly Chubais, red directors were the most influential force of Russia in the first half of the 1990s, when they got rapidly enriched; however, they also became the object of criminal encroachments of criminal groups seeking to seize enterprises with export potential.


== References ==

The National Eagle Repository is operated and managed under the Office of Law Enforcement of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service located at the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge outside of Denver, Colorado. It serves as a central location for the receipt, storage, and distribution of bald and golden eagles that have been found dead.  Eagles and eagle parts are available only to Native Americans enrolled in federally recognized tribes for use in religious and cultural ceremonies.


== Mandate ==

Distribution is authorized by the Bald and Golden Eagle Protection Act and Regulations in 50 CFR 22.  Passed in 1940 and amended in 1962 to include golden eagles, the Bald Eagle Protection Act prohibits the take, transport, sale or barter, and possession of eagles or their parts without a permit. Native Americans who wish to obtain bald or golden eagles or their parts must apply through the United States Fish and Wildlife Service's Migratory Bird Permit Office which services the applicant's state of residence.  Orders are filled on a first come, first served basis, with a waiting list of about 6,000 applicants for approximately 2,000 eagles the repository receives, on average, each year.  Applicants additionally receive a Fish and Wildlife Service permit which allows them to possess eagles or their parts for religious purposes.  Conservation agencies, zoological parks, rehabilitators, and others who may legally possess and transport deceased eagles and their parts are encouraged to send them to the repository so they may be used by Native Americans. Most of the birds died in bird strike, particularly with cars, on overhead power lines or were confiscated from poachers.


== History ==
After the legal protection of the bald eagle, Native Americans had no access to feathers and other parts of the birds they need for certain religious and cultural activities. The best known use is in war bonnets and other feathered headdresses. Some continued hunting and considered it legal on reservation grounds as hunting and their cultural self-determination was guaranteed in treaties. In the early 1970s the National Eagle Repository was operated out of Pocatello, Idaho and in the 1980s distribution was out of the USFWS Forensic Lab in Ashland, Oregon. The office collected birds and distributed them further. But the process was slow and the numbers of birds low.
In 1985 a lawsuit over the prosecution of Dwight Dion Sr., a member of the Yankton Sioux Tribe, for poaching and selling of four bald eagles reached the Supreme Court. In United States v. Dion the court upheld the conviction and confirmed that historic treaty rights could be amended and abrogated by legislation of Congress.
President Bill Clinton signed an executive memorandum on April 29, 1994, after meeting with 300 tribal leaders at the White House. He reformed the National Eagle Repository and obliged all federal agencies to send dead eagles to the repository. Following this memorandum, in 1995 the repository moved to the Denver area and got its own offices at the Rocky Mountain Arsenal.


== Literature ==
Bruce E. Beans: Eagle’s Plume: The Struggle to Preserve the Life and Haunts of America’s Bald Eagle. Scribner, New York 1996, ISBN 0-684-80696-7
Alison Renteln: The cultural defense. Oxford University Press, Oxford 2004, ISBN 978-0-19-515402-3.


== References ==


== External links ==
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service: National Eagle Repository.
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service: Questions and Answers about the National Eagle Repository.

Daniel MacGhie Cory (27 September 1904, New York City – 18 June 1972) was an American author and George Santayana's literary secretary, assistant, and executor. Cory was also the secretary and assistant to the epistemologist Charles Augustus Strong.
Cory attended Columbia University but left without completing his undergraduate degree. During the last twenty-years of Santayana's life, Cory was the philosopher's closest friend as well as his literary secretary and assistant, receiving a monthly stipend for many years. Their friendship began in 1927 when Cory (then living in England) wrote a letter to Santayana (who wrote during his lifetime over 3,000 letters to over 300 recipients). He made frequent visits to Rome to assist Santayana with literary work and correspondence. Cory was the editor of a collection of Santayana's letters published by Charles Scribner's Sons in 1955 and the author and editor of Santayana: The Later Years; A Portrait with Letters published by George Braziller in 1963.
In the spring of 1937 Cory brought his then-fiancée with him to Rome to meet Santayana. During the 1930s Cory and his future wife Margaret "Margot" Batten née Degen lived together for several years, mainly in Bournemouth, Cornwall, before they were married in April 1940 in Vevey, Switzerland. She was divorced from Rupert Batten, a journalist. Because mail service from the U.K. to Italy was interrupted by WWII, Santayana did not learn of their marriage until June 1944. The Corys lived on a modest budget in England before and slightly after the war and in New York City during the war.

During the 1960s and until Daniel's death in 1972, the Corys lived mainly in Italy, principally in Rome where they had modest quarters in the Hotel Dinesen near the Pincian gardens. During the summers they rented a small apartment in Brunnenburg, a picturesque castle owned by Ezra Pound's daughter, Mary de Rachewiltz, which was situated among the Dolomites, at Tirol di Merano in northern Italy.
Cory wrote a definitive account of Santayana's last illness. On 30 September 1952, Daniel Cory read Santayana's poem The Poet's Testament at the interment of the philosopher's body in the Tomb of the Spaniards in Rome's Campo Verano.
Cory's writings were mostly philosophical essays published in scholarly journals and earned an insignificant amount of money.


== References ==

Sergei Mikhailovich Stepniak-Kravchinskii (Russian: Сергей Михайлович Степняк-Кравчинский, Ukrainian: Сергій Степняк-Кравчинський; 13 July 1851 – 23 December 1895), known in 19th-century London revolutionary circles as Sergius Stepniak, was a Russian revolutionary of Ukrainian descent.
He is mainly known for assassinating General Nikolai Mezentsov, chief of Russia's Gendarme corps and head of secret police, with a dagger in the streets of St. Petersburg in 1878.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
Kravchinskii, the son of an army doctor of Belarusian descent and a Ukrainian noblewoman, was born on 13 July [O.S. 1 July] 1851 in Novy Starodub, Aleksandriya uezd, Kherson Governorate, Russian Empire (now in Ukraine). He received a liberal education, and when he left school, he went on to attend the Military academy and graduated from the Mikhailovsky Artillery Institute before joining the Imperial Russian Army. He reached the rank of second lieutenant before resigning his commission in 1871.


=== Beginning of revolutionary activities ===

Kravchinskii's sympathy lay with the peasants, among whom he had lived during his boyhood in the country, which led him to develop democratic, and later revolutionary opinions. He joined the Circle of Tchaikovsky, a group of like-minded Narodnik philosophers and political activists whose ultimate goal was the "liberation of the people." Stepniak became a member of the original St. Petersburg branch of the Circle, where he joined thirty other men and women of education, including Pyotr Kropotkin
As a member of this Circle, he began secretly to sow the sentiments of democracy and the ideals of the Narodniks among the peasants. To this end, he participated in a precursor to the Going to the People, when members of the Narodnik movement disguised themselves as peasants and laborers to spread the idea of revolution. Stepniak, accompanied by another member of the Circle, Dmitry Rogachev, appeared in a Tver village as woodcutters in the autumn of 1873. In November, they were tracked down by the rural police, but escaped at first, swearing to each other that they would dedicate their lives to the people. The Circle was broken up and his teaching would cease soon after, ending with his arrest in 1874.


=== First emigration and return ===
Kravchinskii succeeded in making his escape, possibly being permitted to regain freedom on account of his youth, and immediately began a more vigorous campaign against autocracy. His sympathetic nature was influenced by indignation against the brutal methods adopted towards prisoners, especially political prisoners, and by the stern measures which the government of tsar Alexander II adopted in order to repress the revolutionary movement. In late 1874 Kravchinskii moved to Switzerland , where he engaged in correspondence with Pyotr Lavrov, sharing with his idea of creating a popular magazine to be read by the village population. He later toured various European countries, meeting various dissidents from the Russian Empire, including Serhiy Podolynsky, a fellow native of Ukraine.
In 1875, Kravchinskii left Geneva and went to the Balkans and joined the rising against the Turks in Bosnia in 1876, serving as an artilleryman; he used that experience to write a manual on guerrilla warfare. Kravchinskii dreamt of settling in Serbia after the end of the war, but the lack of revolutionary aims among the Balkan liberation movement forced him to abandon those plans. In 1877 he joined the anarchist Errico Malatesta in his small rebellion in the Italian province of Benevento.  Arrested by Italian authorities after the failure of the uprising, he was threatened with death penalty, but regained his freedom as a result of a royal amnesty. Kravchinskii returned to Russia in 1878, joining Zemlya i volya (Land and Liberty). Along with Nikolai Morozov and Olga Liubatovich edited the party journal.


=== Murder of Mezentsev and second emigration ===
Convinced that individual acts of political terrorism would convince Tsar Alexander II to introduce democratic reforms, on 16 August [O.S. 4 August] 1878 Kravchinskii assassinated General Nikolai Mezentsov, the chief of the Gendarme corps and head of the country's secret police,  with a dagger in the streets of St Petersburg. Mezentsov had been active during the famous Trial of the 193, in which university students were threatened with treason charges for having committed "disobedience". Alexander the Second wished the accused to be given light sentences, until Mezentsov, then Chief of State Police, suggested that the punishment should be stricter. The emperor eventually changed the sentences to heavier ones, which became the motivation for Mezentsov to be assassinated by Kravchinskii.
After the killing, Kravchinskii exposed himself to danger by remaining in Russia, staying in Saint Petersburg and writing articles for the underground Zemlya i Volya newspaper. He left the country in the fall of 1878, settling for a short time in Switzerland, then a favourite resort of revolutionary leaders, and after a few years came to London. He was already known in England by his book, Underground Russia, which had been published in London in 1882. In England he established the Society of Friends of Russian Freedom and the Russia Free Press (with an associated Russia Free Press Fund (RFPF)), linking with Karl Pearson, Wilfrid Voynich and Charlotte Wilson. He was also an editor for the Society's house organ, Free Russia. During that time, in order to evade persecution by Russian agents abroad, Kravchinskii adopted the pseudonym Stepniak ("steppe dweller"), which was related to his native land. During his stay abroad Kravchinskii supported himself through publications, and also worked as a teacher of Russian. He also read the poetry of Taras Shevchenko and taught his London friend Ethel Boole Ukrainian, which had been the native tongue of his mother. It was in Kravchinskii's London house that Ethel met her future husband Michał Wojnicz in 1890.

Stepniak followed up Underground Russia with a number of other works on the condition of the Russian peasantry, on Nihilism, and on the conditions of life in Russia. The British socialist and Fabian Annie Besant reviewed Stepniak’s The Russian Storm-Cloud in her journal Our Corner in July 1886. She wrote: “I earnestly commend this work to my readers, as a book to be read and kept. The deep interest of its theme is sufficient to ensure its welcome among all who turn to the Russian Revolutionary party eyes of admiration and of love.”   His mind gradually turned from belief in the efficacy of violent measures to the acceptance of constitutional methods. In his last book, King Stork and King Log, Stepniak spoke with approval of the efforts of politicians on the Liberal side to effect, by argument and peaceful agitation, a change in the attitude of the Russian government towards various reforms.
Stepniak constantly wrote and lectured, both in Great Britain and the United States, in support of his views, and his energy, added to the interest of his personality, won him many friends. He was chiefly identified with the Socialists in England and the Social Democratic parties on the Continent; but he was regarded by people of all opinions as an agitator whose motives had always been pure and disinterested.  Russian anarchist leader Peter Kropotkin, who knew Stepniak personally, testified as to his character:

He was a stranger to the feeling of fear; it was as foreign to him as colors are to a person born blind.  He was ready to risk his life every moment. Egotism as well as narrow partisanship was unknown to him; he believed that in a movement to defeat oppression there are always parties and factions with differences of opinion,—"but let every party do its share in the work for the common good, the best it knows how"—he used to say—"and the result will be much greater for the cause [...]" He also could not understand why there should be strife among the various parties, since all are involved in the struggle against a common enemy. This was the result of his inborn instinct for justice. I have known but few people who have possessed this instinct developed to such a degree. [...] When he heard someone relating about an injustice, he was at once ready to annihilate the oppressor. I shall never forget the expression of his face, when I related to him the treatment our comrades had received in France and Italy. And yet he was kindness personified. Whoever knew him loved him. The children in Russia worshipped him. He spent some of the most enjoyable moments of his life in America where, surrounded by bright black faces, he taught in a negro school.


=== Death and memorial service ===

Stepniak was killed by a train at a railway crossing at Woodstock Road, Chiswick, London, where he resided, on 23 December 1895. At the time of his untimely death, Kravchinskii had been preparing the publication of a new novel. In the previously cited memorial essay on Stepniak written by Russian anarchist Peter Kropotkin he explained the tragic manner of his death:

Sergei Stepniak was killed by a train, about three hundred feet away from his house. He left his house about 10.30 in the morning, in order to visit a gathering of friends and comrades in Shepherd's Bush (London). A few bricklayers who knew him well saw him go by. He was absorbed in a book, which he read while walking. He had to cross a single track of a branch line, between Hammersmith and South Acton. The place was very dangerous; one has to cross the track hastily and very carefully. At first glance one would think he could make it in a single leap, but in reality one has to make about seven steps across the track, in order to be out of danger. The sharp turn prevents the pedestrian from noticing the oncoming of a train. When the engineer saw Stepniak crossing the track, he sounded the whistle; but before Stepniak had time to turn his head, the train knocked him down, killing him instantly.
His body was cremated at Woking on 28 December and the cremated remains deposited at Kensal Green Cemetery.
In the same memorial essay cited above, Kropotkin (who apparently was in attendance) describes the memorial ceremony:

The following Saturday the cremation of his body took place. Hundreds of his friends came to his house and walked to the Ravenscourt Park cemetery. At the Waterloo station, from where the train leaves for Wauking [sic], thousands of workingmen assembled with their banners, representing the societies and Labor Unions of various parts of London. Opposite the station, in a downpour of rain, speeches were held by English, Russian, Italian, German and Armenian friends, who were often interrupted by the loud sobs of the assembled. The manifestation was both magnificent and heart-breaking. I have seen funerals large in numbers, but I have never seen a funeral with so much deep grief and sorrow as was manifested by the mourners at the funeral of Sergei Stepniak. When the terrible accident happened, he was only 43 years of age, full of strength and courage, full of hope and belief in the future. [...] Hundreds of letters and telegrams received at his funeral, attested to his value to the Russian Revolutionary movement. He was its central figure.


== Legacy ==
His person became the inspiration for the main hero of Ethel Voynich's The Gadfly, and his publications influenced the works of Leo Tolstoy, Emile Zola and Vladimir Lenin. During the Soviet times, a museum dedicated to Kravchinskii functioned in his native village. One of the streets was named after him in the Ukrainian city of Kirovohrad (now Kropyvnytskyi).


== Published works ==
Underground Russia. London: Smith, Elder & Co., 1883.
Russia Under the Tzars. Translated by William Westall. London: Ward & Downey, 1885.
A Female Nihilist. Boston, Mass.: Benj. R. Tucker, 1885.
The Russian Storm-Cloud or, Russia in Her Relations to Neighbouring Countries. London: Swan Sonnenschein, 1886.
The Russian Peasantry: Their Agrarian Condition, Social Life, and Religion. London:  Swan Sonnenschein, 1888.
The Career of a Nihilist: A Novel. London: Walter Scott, 1889.
King Stork and King Log: A Study of Modern Russia. London: Downey & Co., 1895.


== Notes ==


== References ==
Butterworth, Alex (2011). The world that never was: a true story of dreamers, schemers, anarchists and secret agents (1st ed.). London: Vintage Books. ISBN 9780099551928.
Kropotkin, Peter (1 January 1905). "The Constitutional Movement in Russia". revoltlib.com. The Nineteenth Century.
Saunders, David (May 2005). "Sergey Mikhailovich Kravchinsky (1851–1895)". Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (online ed.). Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/ref:odnb/62226. (Subscription, Wikipedia Library access or UK public library membership required.)
Attribution:

This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Fyfe, Henry Hamilton (1911). "Stepniak, Sergius". In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 25 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp. 889–890.


== Further reading ==
The Anarchists, James Joll, second edition, page 103.
The World That Never Was: A True Story of Dreamers, Schemers, Anarchists & Secret Police, Alex Butterworth, first edition, page 92.
S. M. Stepniak-Kravchinskii: The London Years. [Senese, Donald] /Newtonville -ORP- 1987/, pp. 130, ill. hc.
Patyk, Lynne Ellen (2009). "Remembering 'The Terrorism': Sergei Stepniak-Kravchinskii's Underground Russia". Slavic Review. 68 (4): 758–781. doi:10.1017/S0037677900024517. ISSN 0037-6779. S2CID 165039284.
Vernitski, Anat (2005). "Russian revolutionaries and English sympathizers in 1890s London: the case of Olive Garnett and Sergei Stepniak". Journal of European Studies. 35 (3): 299–314. doi:10.1177/0047244105055105. ISSN 0047-2441. S2CID 144076155.


== External links ==

Works by or about Sergey Mikhaylovich Stepnyak-Kravchinsky at Wikisource
Works by Sergei Stepniak at Project Gutenberg
Works by or about Sergei Stepniak at the Internet Archive

Anne Maria Kyllönen (born 30 November 1987) is a Finnish cross-country skier. She debuted in the FIS Cross-Country World Cup on 1 December 2007. Kyllönen won the world cup classic team sprint in Sochi in 2013 with Mona-Lisa Malvalehto, and also the classic team sprint in Asiago in 2013 with Aino-Kaisa Saarinen. In the 2016 Tour de Ski, Kyllönen was seventh overall, a personal best.


== Cross-country skiing results ==
All results are sourced from the International Ski Federation (FIS).


=== Olympic Games ===
1 medal – (1 silver)


=== World Championships ===


=== World Cup ===


==== Season standings ====


==== Individual podiums ====
9 podiums – (5 WC, 4 SWC)


==== Team podiums ====
2 victories – (2 TS)
8 podiums – (6 RL, 2 TS)


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Anne Kyllönen at the International Ski and Snowboard Federation
Anne Kyllönen at Olympedia 
Anne Kyllönen at Olympics.com 
Anne Kyllönen at Olympiakomitea.fi (in Finnish)

The British Business & General Aviation Association (BBGA) is a non-profit, professional trade association based in England in the United Kingdom (UK).  It is the UK's national aviation trade body representing airlines, aircraft maintenance companies, brokers, and similar; operating and trading in the General Aviation (GA) and Business Aviation sectors, primarily in the UK.


== History ==
The association was originally incorporated in England and Wales on 28 April 1975, as the General Aviation Manufacturers & Traders Association Limited (GAMTA), which was based at Brill near Aylesbury in Buckinghamshire, England.
It subsequently merged in August 2004 with the Business Aviation Users Association (BAUA), whose Chief Executive was Derek Leggett, then John Batty from June 2003, which was based in Farnborough in Hampshire.  Mark Wilson became CEO of the merged organisation.
The BAUA was mostly concerned with technical requirements for aircraft.


== Aims ==
BBGA aims to create an environment that fosters business aviation in the UK and around the world, and its member companies span all facets of the business aviation sector.


== Structure ==
BBGA is currently headed by its chairman Aoife O' Sullivan, and CEO Marc Bailey.  It represents about 180 companies, including airports, corporate flight departments, and aircraft manufacturers.  The organisation is based in Dorton, Aylesbury, Bucks.


== See also ==
European Business Aviation Association (EBAA)
Joint Aviation Authorities (JAA)


== References ==


== External links ==
BBGA.aero — British Business & General Aviation Association

Wait Till You See Her is an album by the John Abercrombie Quartet, featuring violinist Mark Feldman, bassist Thomas Morgan, and drummer Joey Baron, recorded in December 2008 and released on ECM in September the following year.


== Reception ==
The AllMusic review by Michael G. Nastos awarded the album 3½ stars, stating, "John Abercrombie's longstanding partnership with Mark Feldman has yielded several albums of exquisite music, and Wait Till You See Her is no different. The mood is naturally restrained, contemplative, and introspective as you would expect, while there's a common thread of healthy respect that keeps the quartet in the softer mezzo piano range... At the bottom line, it's another consistent and at times excellent effort from these tried and true modern musicians."  


== Track listing ==


== Personnel ==
John Abercrombie – guitar
Mark Feldman – violin
Thomas Morgan – double bass
Joey Baron – drums


== References ==

Tracy Mutinhiri is a Zimbabwean politician who served as the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Welfare. She represented Marondera East (ZANU-PF) in the House of Assembly.
Since 2009, there have been rumours that Mutinhiri is sympathetic to the MDC party. This has led to various forms of threats and harassment against her, especially after the reelection of Lovemore Moyo as speaker of parliament at the end of March 2011. In this election, Mutinhiri was suspected to be one of the two ZANU-PF votes in favour of the MDC candidate. The attacks also included attempted invasions of her farm in Marondera.
She was on the European Union sanctions list from 2007 to 2011.


== References ==

John L. (Mel) Doherty (April 21, 1894 − May 7, 1942) was a professional American football player-coach with the Cincinnati Celts of the "Ohio League" and its direct descendant, the American Professional Football Association (renamed the National Football League in 1922). Doherty coached the Celts throughout their entire existence from 1910 to 1923. The team played only four games in the AFPA, posting a 1–3 record. However prior to joining the league, the Celts flourished in the Ohio League.
Doherty also played football at the Great Lakes Naval Training Station during World War I, and later served as an assistant coach at Xavier University. He was also a popular bandleader in the Cincinnati area, during the 1920s, and later became a salesman for the Hudepohl Brewing Company.
His son Jerry later became the dance partner to Doris Mary Ann Kappelhoff, who is better known to audiences as actress Doris Day.


== References ==


== External links ==
Cincinnati Celts profile at Cincy Sports History
Cincinnati Celts profile at Ohio History Central
Cincinnati Celts 1921 overview at databaseFootball.com
Carroll, Bob (1988). "Roudebush Knew The Rules" (PDF). Coffin Corner. 10 (4). Professional Football Researchers Association: 1–3. Archived from the original (PDF) on November 27, 2010.

The Dutch Houses are at 20, 22 and 24 Bridge Street Row, Chester, Cheshire, England.  They are recorded in the National Heritage List for England as a designated Grade II listed building.


== History ==
The building was erected in about 1670, possibly above earlier undercrofts.  The name reflects the trade undertaken with the Low Countries around that time.  At the time it was built, it was the tallest and most impressive building in Bridge Street, and remained so for over 200 years.  By the 1970s the building was in a state of decay, and it was restored and rebuilt in 1973–75 by Chester City Council.  The rebuilding involved removing the whole of the façade and rebuilding it, and replacing the internal timberwork with steel.  In the process many of the internal features were lost.


== Architecture ==
The Dutch Houses are constructed on sandstone piers, probably originating from the medieval period, with timber framing from the late 17th  century, and rendered brickwork from the late 17th or the 18th century.  It consists of three bays in four storeys plus an attic.  The bottom storey incorporates the undercrofts, and a portion of the Chester Rows passes through the first floor.  The lowest storey, at street level, includes modern shop fronts.  At the level of the Row are painted wood barley sugar balusters with rails.  Behind these are stallboards, the paved walkway of the Row, and more modern shopfronts.  The third and fourth storeys are jettied, both containing barley sugar pilasters and casement windows of varying sizes.  The attic storey is set back, each bay containing a three-light mullioned and transomed window.


== See also ==

Grade II listed buildings in Chester (central)


== References ==

Galina Nikolaevna Serdyukovskaya (Russian: Галина Николаевна Сердюковская; 6 November 1921 – 11 June 2004) was a Russian hygienist, academic and politician. She was school state sanitary inspector at the School of Sanitation of the Molotovsky (now part of the Proletarsky) district of Moscow from 1946 to 1948 before working at the Main Sanitary and Epidemiological Administration of the Ministry of Health in Moscow until 1960. Serdyukovskaya served as director of the Research Institute of Hygiene and Disease Prevention of Children and Adolescents of the All-Union Scientific Center for Preventive Medicine of the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences (later the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences) between 1963 and 1996. She was a people's deputy of the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union and of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union from 1989 to 1991. Serdyukovskaya was a recipient of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour and the Order of the Badge of Honour (twice).


== Biography ==
Serdyukovskaya was born in Moscow on 6 November 1921 to Nikolai Aleksandrovich Khrustalev and Anna Georgievna Emaeva. She was educated at the sanitary and hygienic faculty of the First Moscow State Medical University from 1939 to 1946. Between 1946 and 1948, Serdyukovskaya worked as a school state sanitary inspector at the School of Sanitation of the Molotovsky (now part of the Proletarsky) district of Moscow. She was appointed a senior school inspector of the main sanitary and anti-epidemic department and later became senior inspector, head of department, chief inspector of the Main Sanitary and Epidemiological Administration of the Ministry of Health in Moscow in 1948, remaining in the job until 1960. Serdyukovskaya served as secretary of the party committee of the Ministry of Health between 1960 and 1963, supervising concerns over monitoring birth and mortality rates, morbidity, selecting, training and organising personnel, while simultaneously resolving personnel issues at the local level.
In 1963, she was appointed director of the Research Institute of Hygiene and Disease Prevention of Children and Adolescents of the All-Union Scientific Center for Preventive Medicine of the All-Union Scientific Center for Preventive Medicine of the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences. Seven years later, Serdyukovskaya defended her thesis doctoral dissertation The Problem of Studying the Health Status of Schoolchildren in the USSR on children's health. She became a professor in 1971, and a member of the executive committee of the International Union for School and University Hygiene in 1972, and a corresponding member of the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences in 1975, before becoming a full member in February 1980. Serdyukovskaya also served as Deputy Academician-Secretary of the Department of Hygiene, Microbiology and Epidemiology of the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences, chaired the All-Union Problem Commission "Hygiene of Children and Adolescents" and was deputy chairman of the All-Union Scientific Society of Hygienists as well as at the Joint Coordinating Council of the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences and Academy of Pedagogical Sciences "Health, Education and Training of Children and Adolescents". She was a member of the Bureau of the All-Union Society "Knowledge", an honorary member of several domestic scientific medical societies, as well as medical societies in Bulgaria, Cuba and Poland. Srdyukovskaya was a member of the editorial board of the journals Hygiene and Sanitation and Paediatrics.
She was a member of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. Serdyukovskaya served as a people's deputy of the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union from the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences together with 40 scientific medical societies from 1989 to 1991. She was also a deputy of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union during its final convocation, serving as a member of both the Committee of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR on Women's Affairs, Family Protection, Motherhood and Childhood. Serdyukovskaya left the Academy of Medical Sciences when it was reorganised into the Scientific Center for the Protection of Children's and Adolescents' Health of the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences in 1996. She later became an advisor to the director of the Research Institute of Hygiene and Health Protection of Children and Adolescents of the State Institution Scientific Center for Children's Health of the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences until August 2003. She was the author 244 scientific works published both in domestic journals and abroad. Serdyukovskaya authored and co-authored 11 monographs (publishing house "Medicine"), 44 scientific collections, textbooks, aids for sanitary doctors, methodological collections and for other publications.


== Personal life ==
She was married to Mark Leonidovich Serdyukovsky and they had two children. Serdyukovskaya died in Moscow on 11 June 2004 and was buried at the city's Kuntsevo Cemetery.


== Awards ==
She was a recipient of the Order of the Red Banner of Labour and twice of the Order of the Badge of Honour in 1960 and 1966. Serdyukovskaya was awarded the F.F. Erisman Prize of the Academy of Medical Sciences in 1982 and the Medal "For Services to National Healthcare" in 2001. She also got the "For Diligent Labour", "Excellence in Health Care" and the Mayor of Moscow's prize among other awards.


== References ==

George Baker (May 22, 1915 – May 7, 1975) was a cartoonist who became prominent during World War II as the creator of the popular comic strip The Sad Sack.
The 1957 comedy film The Sad Sack starring Jerry Lewis was based on Baker's fictional character.


== Biography ==


=== Early life and education ===
Baker was born in Lowell, Massachusetts, living there until 1923. He grew up in Rock Island, Illinois, and Chicago. In Chicago, he attended Lane Tech High School and graduated from Roosevelt High, where he played baseball and drew pictures for the high school annual.


=== Commercial artist ===
After six weeks of art training in a night school, he got a job as a commercial artist "but soon grew tired of drawing pots and pans for newspaper advertisements."


=== Disney days ===
He moved to California to pursue a baseball career. Instead, he was hired by Walt Disney in 1937, and assisted in the production of the studio's full-length animated features, including Pinocchio, Fantasia, Dumbo and Bambi. His specialty was animation of thunderstorms, waterfalls and other effects.


=== World War II ===
Five months prior to Pearl Harbor, Baker was drafted (June 1941) into the United States Army. He related later that he expected that the Army Classification System would have no use for his artistic experience, noting "They say it makes cooks out of mechanics, and vice versa. But I must say, it worked perfectly in my case." To his surprise, he was assigned to Fort Monmouth for basic training and to create animation for Signal Corps training films.
Baker won a cartoon contest, sponsored by the "Defense Recreation Committee", and received a portable typewriter as first prize. Life magazine printed some of his submissions, and he was hired by Yank, the Army Weekly, where he adapted his drawings of the misadventures of an army recruit into The Sad Sack. Drawn in pantomime, the strip became the magazine's most popular feature, as measured by the fan mail from servicemen who identified with the luckless private. In an official document, General George C. Marshall praised Sad Sack as a morale-booster for World War II troops.


=== Civilian life ===
At the end of the war, the U.S. Army created an advertising campaign with the phrase: "Don't be a Sad Sack, re-enlist in the Regular Army". Discharged from military service, Baker returned to live in Los Angeles where he transformed the Sad Sack army cartoon into a syndicated comic strip and a comic book series aimed at younger readers.
While Baker gave the job of writing the comic narrative to others, he continued to illustrate the Sad Sack comic book covers until the time of his death. The Sad Sack radio program was broadcast in 1946.


=== Sad Sack nursing scholarships ===
In 1945 the AMVETS National Sad Sacks were formed to raise money for the Sad Sacks Nursing Scholarship Fund. The scholarships, named after Baker's cartoon character, are awarded to children of military veterans.


=== Death and burial ===
George Baker is buried at Riverside National Cemetery, Riverside, California.


== References ==


== External links ==
George Baker at Find a Grave

Sokilnyky (Ukrainian: Сокільники) is a village in Zolotnyky rural hromada, Ternopil Raion, Ternopil Oblast, Ukraine.


== History ==
The first written mention of the village was in 1397.
After the liquidation of the Terebovlia Raion on 19 July 2020, the village became part of the Ternopil Raion.


== References ==


== Sources ==
(in Ukrainian) Горун М., Івахів Г., Сокільники // Ternopil Oblast. History of cities and villages: in 3 v. / Ternopil: "Terno-graph", 2014, V. 3: М—Ш, S. 322—323. — ISBN 978-966-457-246-7.
(in Ukrainian) Гуцал П., Хаварівський Б., Сокільники // Ternopil Encyclopedic Dictionary: in 4 v. / editorial board: H. Yavorskyi and other, Ternopil: "Zbruch", 2008, V. 3: П—Я, S. 307. — ISBN 978-966-528-279-2.
Гуцал П., Півторак С. У краю соколиних злетів: нариси сіл Соколів та Сокільники землі Теребовлянської, Тернопіль: РОМС-К, 1998, 93 s, ISBN 966-7143-02-3.
"Sokolniki (pow. podhajecki)". Geographical Dictionary of the Kingdom of Poland (in Polish). 11. Warszawa: Kasa im. Józefa Mianowskiego. 1890. p. 23.

Calandrinia elegans may refer to:

Calandrinia elegans E.Vilm., a synonym of Cistanthe grandiflora (Lindl.) Schltdl. in genus Cistanthe
Calandrinia elegans Spach, a synonym of Calandrinia ciliata (Ruiz & Pav.) DC.

State Highway 94 (SH 94) is a state highway in the U.S. state of Texas that runs 50 miles (80 km) between Trinity and Lufkin.  This route was designated on April 21, 1924, from Trinity to Groveton. On May 4, 1925, it was extended to Lufkin. On September 26, 1954, SH 94 was extended from old US 59 to new US 59 in Lufkin.


== Major junctions ==


== References ==

Hara Pattanaik (12 October 1958 – 13 January 2015), also known as Hari Patnaik, was an Indian actor, director and screenplay writer known for his works in Odia cinema. He has acted over 60 Odia-language movies and directed about 19 others. Pattanaik was instrumental in introducing other actors including Anubhav Mohanty, Sabyasachi Mishra and Babushaan. He died of cancer on 13 January 2015.


== Awards and accreditation ==
During his 20 years tenure, he got several state-level awards and accreditation from media and Oriya cine public at large.


== Filmography ==
As Actor

As Director


== References ==


== External links ==

Hara Patnaik at IMDb

Te Kapunga Matemoana "Koro" Dewes (7 April 1930 – 17 August 2010) was a kaumātua of the Ngāti Porou iwi of New Zealand. He was a pioneer of Māori education and an advocate for the Māori language.


== Biography ==
Dewes attended Horoera Native Primary School and won a scholarship to Wesley College, where he became dux and head prefect. He went to Ardmore Teachers' College (now part of the University of Auckland) in 1949 and taught at Tikitiki District High School and St. Stephen's Anglican Māori boarding school. From 1962 to 1966, he lectured in the University Extension Department (adult education) of the University of Auckland, and then was appointed as a lecturer in Māori language at the Victoria University of Wellington. At Wellington, he helped to extend courses to allow students to complete a degree major in Māori language. He wrote a master's thesis on the work of composer Henare Waitoa, which was submitted in Māori in 1972. The title of the master's thesis was Ngā waiata haka a Hēnare Waitoa o Ngāti Porou (modern dance-poetry by Hēnare Waitoa of Ngāti Porou). He was awarded an honorary doctorate of literature (DLitt) by Victoria in 2002.
Dewes returned to the East Cape area in 1976, where in 1987 he helped form Te Runanga o Ngati Porou, an organisation which has championed and facilitated a strategic vision for the Ngāti Porou.
Māori Affairs Minister Pita Sharples said Dewes "was a partisan rather than a diplomat" who "has been an inspiration for language activists from every iwi, and for indigenous peoples around the world."


== References ==


== External links ==
"Maori language pioneer dies age 80". The New Zealand Herald. 19 August 2010.
"Historian Koro Dewes dies age 80". Stuff (Fairfax). 18 August 2010.
"Tohunga fed te reo revival". Stuff (Fairfax). 29 August 2010.

Novoselki (Russian: Новосёлки) is a rural locality (a selo) in Komsomolsky District, Ivanovo Oblast, Russia. Population: 44 (2010 census);  


== Geography ==
This rural locality is located 4 kilometres (2.5 mi) from Komsomolsk (the district's administrative centre), 34 kilometres (21 mi) from Ivanovo (the capital of Ivanovo Oblast), and 223 kilometres (139 mi) from Moscow. Ivankovo is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

Papilio ajax Linnaeus, 1758 is a scientific name given in 1758 by Linnaeus to what later appeared to be a combination of three species of butterflies. The name was placed on the Official Index of Rejected and Invalid Specific Names in Zoology in 1954 after an application to that matter was submitted by Steven Corbet in 1945. The name no longer has a status as a scientific name, except in cases of homonymy; according to the rules of the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature the name Papilio ajax can no longer be given to any species.


== The name as given by Linnaeus ==

Linnaeus gave the name Papilio ajax in 1758 in the tenth edition of Systema Naturae to what he believed to be a single species, which he placed in his large genus Papilio. Apart from a short description, he mentioned its habitat as "in America boreali" (in North-America), and provided references to "Raj. Ins. III. n. 2" (John Ray, 1710; Historia insectorum: 111, n° 2) and "Edw. av. 34" (George Edwards, 1743; A natural history of birds volume 1: 34). In Edwards a description and a picture can be found, in Ray a description and a reference to "Mouffet. Theat. Insect. p.98" (Thomas Muffet, 1634. Insectorum sive minimorum animalium theatrum; opus posthumus). Finally Linnaeus had a specimen in his collection.


== Confusion on the identity ==

In the course of time, confusion arose on the identity of Papilio ajax. The short description was applicable to several species, and the figures of Muffet and of Edwards decidedly represented different species and were moreover in conflict with Linnaeus's description. Apart from that, Linnaeus had cited Edwards's figure in 1764 in his Museum Ludovicae Ulricae as an illustration of the name Papilio protesilaus Linnaeus, 1758, a different species altogether. The type in Linnaeus's collection, now in the possession of the Linnean Society in London, was inaccessible for most entomologists, so could not be consulted. Many of them applied the name to the species named and depicted as Papilio marcellus (now Protographium marcellus) by Pieter Cramer in 1777.
In view of the confusion, Lionel Walter Rothschild and Karl Jordan totally discarded the name ajax in their Revision of the American Papilios of 1906, and used the name given by Cramer instead. They stated that Edwards's image could not be reconciled with Linnaeus's description and unmistakably represented Papilio marcellus of Cramer. They identified Muffet's drawing as a very poor image of Papilio glaucus Linnaeus, 1758. Finally, according to Rothschild and Jordan, Linnaeus's description concerned the species named Papilio polyxenes by Johann Christian Fabricius in 1775, and depicted as Papilio asterius in 1782 by Pieter Cramer (they meant his successor Caspar Stoll). This opinion was based mainly on a picture with the name Papilio ajax, published by Carl Alexander Clerck in 1764, that, according to Rothschild and Jordan, certainly had been seen by Linnaeus before publication, and which undeniably represented the species they knew as Papilio polyxenes of Fabricius. Rothschild and Jordan thus argued that the name ajax in fact represented three different taxa:

Eurytides marcellus (Cramer, 1777), with regard to the reference to Edwards
Papilio glaucus Linnaeus, 1758, with regard to the indirect reference to Muffet
Papilio polyxenes asterius Stoll, 1782 with regard to the Linnean description and the later image by Clerck


== Corbet's research ==

In the 1940s, Steven Corbet was deputy-keeper of the insect collection of the Natural History Museum. He was at that time also the foremost authority on the Linnean butterflies, and had access to the collection of the Linnean Society. During research, Corbet found the specimen labelled Ajax in Linnaeus's own handwriting. From the way it was pinned, Corbet concluded that it was almost certainly a specimen collected by Pehr Osbeck in Canton in 1751, so not of North-American origin. Corbet at once identified the type as a specimen of the Oriental species named Papilio xuthus by Linnaeus in 1767, a name by which it has ever since been known.


== Application to reject the name ==
To put an end to the confusion, Corbet submitted an application to the International Commission on Zoological Nomenclature in 1945, asking for the suppression of the name ajax as published in the combination Papilio ajax by Linnaeus. In his request, he argued that strict application of the Law of Priority would lead to an undesirable name change of the species long known as Papilio xuthus, for which the name Papilio ajax would now have to be used. As this name had been in use for one or more American species, this would only add to the confusion already existing. Upon rejection of the name ajax, the only consequence would be that the name marcellus would have to be given to the American species, a practice already initiated in 1906 by Rothschild and Jordan.
The zoological congress of 1948 in Paris entailed a lot of work for the commission, and processing of the application was delayed. Corbet died in May 1948. In 1950 Francis Hemming, secretary to the commission, issued a supplementary note on procedural problems. Its main issue was a second possible solution to the problem, seemingly overlooked by Corbet, that would secure nomenclatural stability. Other than suppressing the name ajax, it would also be possible to select a new type for the name, which would preserve the name for the Nearctic species to which it had been applied for some time. Corbet's application and Hemming's note were published at the same time in 1951 in The Bulletin of Zoological Nomenclature volume 2: 26-29 en 29-30.
In a statement of support for the proposal, Cyril Franklin dos Passos, of the American Museum of Natural History, explained that the name ajax had not been regularly used for one but for two species of Nearctic butterflies: Papilio asterius and Papilio marcellus. In his view, there was no consistent use that should be preserved by choosing a new type for the name.


== ICZN Opinion 286 ==
Voting on the proposal to reject the name ajax and to place the name xuthus on the Official List started on 7 April 1952 and closed on 7 July 1952. The outcome was 16 affirmative votes, 1 negative vote and 1 voting paper unreturned. The result was published as ICZN Opinion 286, in which the name ajax was placed on the Official Index of Rejected and Invalid Specific Names in Zoology, and the name xuthus on the Official List of Specific Names in Zoology.
In 1767, in de second volume of the twelfth edition of the Systema Naturae, the name xuthus was first given as xanthus by Linnaeus (page 751, n° 34). He had used the name a second time in the same work (page 767, n° 122). In the unpaged corrigenda, inserted at the end of the same volume, Linnaeus corrected the first name to xuthus. In a ruling, given in an Opinion, the commission has to cover al questions involved, and every name dealt with should be placed either on the Official List or on the Index. Therefore also the name xanthus, as published by Linnaeus in 1767 on page 751 of Systema Naturae (but not the one on page 767), was eventually placed on the Index.


== Notes ==


== References ==


=== Sources ===

A list of books and essays about Howard Hawks:

Hawks, Howard (2006). Howard Hawks: Interviews. Univ. Press of Mississippi. ISBN 978-1-57806-833-3.
Hillier, Jim; Institute, British Film (1996). Howard Hawks, American artist. BFI Publishing. ISBN 978-0-85170-593-4.
McCarthy, Todd (2000). Howard Hawks: The Grey Fox of Hollywood. Grove Press. ISBN 978-0-8021-3740-1.
Poague, Leland A. (1982). Howard Hawks. Gale. ISBN 978-0-8057-9285-0.
Wood, Robin (January 2006). Howard Hawks. Wayne State University Press. ISBN 0-8143-3276-5.

NS-2664 (LS-193,048) is an anxiolytic drug with a novel chemical structure, developed by the small pharmaceutical company NeuroSearch. It has similar effects to benzodiazepine drugs, but is structurally distinct and so is classed as a nonbenzodiazepine anxiolytic. NS-2664 is a potent but non-selective partial agonist at GABAA receptors, although with little efficacy at the α1 subtype and more at α2 and α3. It has potent anticonvulsant effects in animal studies, but a relatively short duration of action, and produces little sedative effects or physical dependence.


== References ==

Hōfu Station (防府駅, Hōfu-eki) is a passenger railway station located in the city of   Hōfu, Yamaguchi Prefecture,  Japan. It is operated by the West Japan Railway Company (JR West).


== Lines ==
Hōfu Station is served by the JR West Sanyō Main Line, and is located 441.4 kilometers from the terminus of the line at Kobe.


== Station layout ==
The station consists of one island platform with an elevated station building. The station is staffed.


== Platforms ==


== History ==
Hōfu Station was opened on 17 March 1897 as Mitajiri Station (三田尻駅) on the San'yo Railway when the line was extended from Tokuyama. On 25 May 1899, Japan's first express train with a dining car started operating between Mitajiri and Kyoto Station. On 8 April 1900, Japan's first sleeper train began operating between Kobe Station and Mitajiri. The San'yo Railway was railway nationalized in 1906 and the line renamed the San'yo Main Line in 1909. The station was renamed Hōfu Station on 1 November 1962. With the privatization of the Japan National Railway (JNR) on 1 April 1987, the station came under the aegis of the West Japan railway Company (JR West).


== Passenger statistics ==
In fiscal 2022, the station was used by an average of 3560 passengers daily.


== Surrounding area ==
Hōfu Tenmangū
Suō Kokubun-ji
Yamaguchi Prefectural Hōfu General Government Building
Hōfu City Hall


== See also ==
List of railway stations in Japan


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Hōfu Station at Wikimedia Commons

0800643 JR West Station Official Site

Ursula Frayne (born Clara Frayne; 5 October 1816 – 9 June 1885) was an Irish nun who became a Mother Superior of the Sisters of Mercy and spent her life in missionary work, initially in Canada but largely in Australia developing schools and academies.


== Early life ==
Clara Frayne was born to the wealthy businessman Robert Frayne, and his wife, Bridget, in Dublin, Ireland. She entered Baggot Street with Catherine McCauley the then-recently-formed Institute of Mercy in Dublin in 1834 and took Ursula in place of her baptismal name. She was appointed Mother Superior in 1842, taking charge of the Institute's first foreign mission foundation in Newfoundland.


== Arriving in Australia ==
In 1845, she left for Perth, Western Australia in response to a request for religious sisters to staff a newly constructed school commissioned by the recently consecrated Bishop John Brady. Frayne arrived with some companions on 8 January 1846. Concerned for the conditions under which the sisters were working, the Dublin mother-house sent money for return fares. But Mother Ursula refused to abandon the mission. She realised that the sisters would have to generate their own income.
In 1846 Ursula opened the first Mercy school and the first secondary school in Western Australia. It was a 'select' fee-paying school for the education of an almost exclusively non-Catholic clientele. It generated much needed funds and brought the mission financial stability.
Using this model Frayne commissioned other schools by establishing almost simultaneously a 'select' fee-paying school together with an infants school and a primary school, usually on the same site and often within the same building.  In 1865, despite the impending withdrawal of government aid the Sisters of Mercy schools in Western Australia were thriving.


== Final years in Melbourne ==
After enduring a dispute with Bishop John Brady, Frayne responded to a request from the Irish-born Bishop James Alipius Goold for a Victorian foundation in Melbourne. Bishop Francis Murphy of Adelaide also put a similar request to her but Frayne had already committed to Bishop Goold.
Six weeks after her arrival in Melbourne, Frayne had raised loans to pay off the mortgages on her convent in Nicholson Street, Fitzroy. Speedy development followed and considerable construction of buildings  for social and educational work was undertaken, peaking in the erection of the first wing of the present 'Academy' for £6000 in 1870. The Sisters of Mercy were the first teaching nuns in Victoria. She also founded the St Vincent de Paul's Orphanage in South Melbourne. Frayne's first Victorian foundation was in Kilmore, Victoria in 1875.


== Death ==

Mother Ursula died in Nicholson Street, Fitzroy, on 9 June 1885, aged 68. A Gothic chapel to her memory was built by her successor in the convent grounds. Her remains are buried in a vault in the chapel under a Celtic cross, reminding all of her origins. She is commemorated in the name of the Ursula Frayne Catholic College, Perth, Western Australia- and also in the dementia ward of Mercy Place, Albury; renamed in 2014 to commemorate "Ursula Frayne".
In 2023, The West Australian newspaper identified the one-hundred people who had shaped the state of Western Australia and they included the botanist Georgiana Molloy, settler Emma Withnell, suffragist Bessie Rischbieth, politician Edith Cowan,  Sister Margaret O'Brien, Dr Roberta Jull, Amy Jane Best and Frayne.


== References ==


== Further links ==
St Vincent de Paul's Orphanage, Melbourne. 1855-1967

Same-sex marriage was progressively introduced in several provinces and territories of Canada by court decisions beginning in 2003 before being legally recognized nationwide with the enactment of the Civil Marriage Act on July 20, 2005. On June 10, 2003, the Court of Appeal for Ontario issued a decision immediately legalizing same-sex marriage in Ontario, thereby becoming the first province where it was legal. The introduction of a federal gender-neutral marriage definition made Canada the fourth country in the world, and the first country outside Europe, to legally recognize same-sex marriage throughout its borders. Before the federal recognition of same-sex marriage, court decisions had already introduced it in eight out of ten provinces and one of three territories, whose residents collectively made up about 90 percent of Canada's population. More than 3,000 same-sex couples had already married in those areas before the Civil Marriage Act was passed. In 2023, polling by Pew Research suggested that more than three-quarters of Canadian residents supported the legal recognition of same-sex marriage. Most legal benefits commonly associated with marriage had been extended to cohabiting same-sex couples since 1999.
The Civil Marriage Act was introduced by Prime Minister Paul Martin's Liberal minority government to the House of Commons of Canada on February 1, 2005, as Bill C-38. It was passed by the House of Commons on June 28, 2005, and by the Senate on July 19, 2005, it received royal assent the following day. Following the 2006 election, which was won by a Conservative minority government under Prime Minister Stephen Harper, the House of Commons defeated a motion to reopen the matter by a vote of 175 to 123 on December 7, 2006, effectively reaffirming the legislation. This was the third vote supporting same-sex marriage taken by three parliaments under three prime ministers.


== Same-sex marriage by province/territory ==
Same-sex marriage was legally recognized in the provinces and territories as of the following dates:

June 10, 2003: Ontario
July 8, 2003: British Columbia
March 19, 2004: Quebec
July 14, 2004: Yukon
September 16, 2004: Manitoba
September 24, 2004: Nova Scotia
November 5, 2004: Saskatchewan
December 21, 2004: Newfoundland and Labrador
June 23, 2005: New Brunswick
July 20, 2005 (Civil Marriage Act): Alberta, Prince Edward Island, Nunavut and the Northwest Territories
In some of these cases, some marriages were in fact legal at an earlier date (for example, an Ontario ruling held that marriages performed in January 2001 were legal when performed), but the legality was questioned. As of the given dates, the legality was authoritatively established. The decision of the Government of Ontario to recognize two marriages that took place in Toronto on January 14, 2001, retroactively made Canada the first country in the world to have a government-legitimized same-sex marriage (the Netherlands and Belgium, which legalized same-sex marriage before Canada, had their first in April 2001 and June 2003, respectively).


== Overview ==

Same-sex marriage was originally recognized by law as a result of cases in which courts in eight out of the ten Canadian provinces, and in one of its three territories, ruled existing bans on same-sex marriage unconstitutional. Thereafter, many same-sex couples obtained marriage licences in those provinces; like opposite-sex couples, they did not need to be residents of any of those provinces to marry there.
The legal status of same-sex marriages in these jurisdictions created an unusual jurisdictional issue. According to the Constitution of Canada, the definition of marriage is the exclusive responsibility of the federal government; this interpretation was upheld by a December 9, 2004, opinion of the Supreme Court of Canada (Reference Re Same-Sex Marriage). Until July 20, 2005, the federal government had not yet passed a law redefining marriage to conform to recent court decisions. Until the passage of the Civil Marriage Act, the previous definition of marriage remained binding in the four jurisdictions (two provinces and two territories) where courts had not yet ruled it unconstitutional, but void in the nine jurisdictions (eight provinces and one territory) where it had been successfully challenged before the courts. Before the enactment of federal legislation recognizing same-sex marriage, therefore, the application of federal marriage law differed depending on the province or territory.
Given the Supreme Court ruling, the role of precedent in Canadian law, and the overall legal climate, it was very likely that any challenges to legalize same-sex marriage in the remaining four jurisdictions would be successful as well. Federal lawyers had ceased to contest such cases, and only Alberta's Conservative provincial government remained officially opposed. Premier Ralph Klein threatened to invoke the notwithstanding clause of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms to avoid having to comply with the ruling. Many commentators opined that a province likely could not use the notwithstanding clause to avoid recognizing same-sex marriage because the federal government had jurisdiction over marriage. Alberta Attorney General Ron Stevens agreed with that conclusion, stating: "Since the court ruled the authority over same-sex marriage falls to the federal government, it is only the federal government who can invoke the notwithstanding clause to maintain the traditional definition of marriage."
On June 17, 2003, Prime Minister Jean Chrétien announced that the government would present a bill to grant same-sex couples equal rights to marry. A draft of what would become Bill C-38 was released on July 17, 2003, by Justice Minister Martin Cauchon. Before introducing it to Parliament, the Cabinet submitted the bill as a reference to the Supreme Court (Reference Re Same-Sex Marriage), asking the court to rule on whether limiting marriage to heterosexual couples was consistent with the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and if same-sex civil unions were an acceptable alternative. On December 9, 2004, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that the marriage of same-sex couples is constitutional, that the federal government has the sole authority to amend the definition of marriage, and the Charter's protection of freedom of religion grants religious institutions the right to refuse to perform marriage ceremonies for same-sex couples.
Following the Supreme Court's decision, Justice Minister Irwin Cotler introduced Bill C-38 on February 1, 2005, to legalize marriage between persons of the same sex across Canada. The government of Prime Minister Paul Martin supported the bill but allowed a free vote by its backbench MPs in the House of Commons. Defeat of the bill in Parliament would have continued the status quo and probably incremental legalization, jurisdiction by jurisdiction, via court challenges. This trend could have been reversed only through Parliament passing a new law that explicitly restricted marriage to opposite-sex couples notwithstanding the protection of equality rights afforded by the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms or by amending the Canadian Constitution by inserting the clause "marriage is defined as being between a man and a woman", as was recommended by several conservative religious groups and politicians. Given the composition of the House of Commons at the time, such a measure would have been very unlikely to pass. Premier Klein proposed putting the question to the public at large via a national referendum, but his suggestion was rejected by all four party leaders.


== History ==


=== Court rulings ===


==== Background ====
In 1999, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled in M v H that same-sex couples in Canada were entitled to receive many of the financial and legal benefits commonly associated with marriage. However, this decision stopped short of giving them the right to full legal marriage. Most laws which affect couples are within provincial rather than federal jurisdiction. As a result, rights varied somewhat from province to province.
On January 14, 2001, Reverend Brent Hawkes forced the issue by performing two same-sex marriages, taking advantage of the fact that Ontario law authorizes him to perform marriages without a previous license, via the issuance of banns of marriage. The registrar refused to accept the records of marriage, and a lawsuit was commenced over whether the marriages were legally performed. In other provinces, lawsuits were launched seeking permission to marry.
In 2002 and 2003, decisions in the superior trial courts of Ontario and Quebec, Halpern v Canada (AG) and Hendricks and Leboeuf v. Quebec, held that the restriction of marriage to opposite-sex couples was discriminatory and contrary to the equality clause of the Canadian Charter of Rights of Freedoms, while the Supreme Court of British Columbia ruled oppositely. On May 1, 2003, the British Columbia Court of Appeal reversed the superior court decision. The courts in each case suspended the effect of the declarations of invalidity for two years, to allow the federal government to consider legislative responses to the rulings. However, on June 10, 2003, the Court of Appeal for Ontario ruled on an appeal in the Halpern case. The court agreed with the lower court that the heterosexual definition of marriage was discriminatory and that same-sex marriage was legally permitted. However, unlike the previous three court decisions, the Court of Appeal did not suspend its decision to allow Parliament to consider the issue. Instead, it ruled that the 2001 marriages were legal and same-sex marriage was available throughout Ontario immediately. The federal government had appealed the trial decisions to the provincial courts of appeal, but following the decision on the Ontario Court of Appeal, Prime Minister Chrétien announced on June 17, 2003, that the federal government would not seek to appeal the decisions to the Supreme Court. Instead, it would propose a draft Civil Marriage Act and refer it to the Supreme Court for an advisory opinion.


==== Ontario decision ====

In 2003, the couples in Halpern v. Canada appealed the decision, requesting that the decision take effect immediately instead of after a delay. On June 10, 2003, the Court of Appeal for Ontario confirmed that current Canadian law on marriage violated the equality provisions in the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms in being restricted to heterosexual couples. The court did not allow the province any grace time to bring its laws in line with the ruling, making Ontario the first jurisdiction in North America to recognize same-sex marriage. The city of Toronto announced that the city clerk would begin issuing marriage licences to same-sex couples. The first same-sex couple to marry, just hours after the Court of Appeal decision, were Michael Leshner and Michael Stark, long-time advocates for marriage equality for same-sex couples who had been litigants and intervenors in various court cases addressing the issue, including the Court of Appeal decision. The next day, Attorney General Norm Sterling announced that his government would comply with the ruling. The court also ruled that Kevin Bourassa and Joe Varnell, and Elaine and Anne Vautour, two same-sex couples who were married on January 14, 2001, at a wedding ceremony in the Metropolitan Community Church of Toronto following an ancient common-law procedure called the reading of the banns, would be considered legally married.
On September 13, 2004, the Ontario Court of Appeal declared the Divorce Act also unconstitutional for excluding same-sex marriages. It ordered same-sex marriages read into that act, permitting the plaintiffs, a lesbian couple, to divorce.


==== British Columbia decision ====

A ruling, quite similar to the Ontario ruling, was issued by the British Columbia Court of Appeal on July 8, 2003. Another decision in British Columbia in May of that year had required the federal government to change the law to permit same-sex marriages, Barbeau v. British Columbia. The July ruling stated that "any further delay... will result in an unequal application of the law between Ontario and British Columbia". A few hours after the announcement, Antony Porcino and Tom Graff became the first two men to be legally wed in British Columbia.


==== Quebec decision ====

On March 19, 2004, the Quebec Court of Appeal ruled similarly to the Ontario and British Columbia courts, upholding Hendricks and Leboeuf v. Quebec and ordering that it take effect immediately. The couple who brought the suit, Michael Hendricks and René Leboeuf, immediately sought a marriage licence; the usual 20-day waiting period was waived, and they were wed on April 1 at the Palais de justice in Montreal.
Given the populations of Ontario, British Columbia and Quebec, more than two-thirds of Canada's population lived in provinces where same-sex marriage had been legalized after the Quebec decision.


==== Yukon decision ====

On July 14, 2004, in Dunbar & Edge v. Yukon (Government of) & Canada (A.G.), the Supreme Court of Yukon issued another similar ruling with immediate effect. Rather than reproducing the Charter equality arguments used by the other courts, the court ruled that since the provincial courts of appeal had ruled that the heterosexual definition of marriage was unconstitutional, it was unconstitutional across Canada. The position was strengthened by the Attorney General's refusal to appeal those rulings. It further ruled that to continue to restrict marriages in Yukon to opposite-sex couples would result in an unacceptable state of a provision's being in force in one jurisdiction and not another.
On August 16, 2004, Justice Minister Irwin Cotler indicated that the federal government would no longer oppose court cases to implement same-sex marriage in the provinces and territories.


==== Manitoba decision ====

On September 16, 2004, Justice Douglas Yard of the Manitoba Court of Queen's Bench declared the then-current definition of marriage unconstitutional. The judge said that his decision had been influenced by the previous decisions in British Columbia, Ontario and Quebec. This decision followed suits brought by three couples in Manitoba requesting that they be issued marriage licences. Both the provincial and federal governments had made it known that they would not oppose the court bid. One of the couples, Chris Vogel and Richard North, had legally sought the right to marry in a high-profile case in 1974, but had been denied.


==== Nova Scotia decision ====

In August 2004, three couples in Nova Scotia brought suit in Boutilier et al. v. Canada (A.G) and Nova Scotia (A.G) against the provincial government requesting that it issue marriage licences to same-sex couples. On September 24, 2004, Justice Heather Robertson of the Nova Scotia Supreme Court ruled the then-current law unconstitutional. Neither the federal nor the provincial governments opposed the ruling.


==== Saskatchewan decision ====

Five couples brought suit in Saskatchewan for the recognition of their marriage in a case that was heard by the Saskatchewan Court of Queen's Bench in chambers on November 3, 2004. On November 5, 2004, the judge ruled that excluding same-sex couples from marriage violated the Charter's right to equality and that the common-law definition was discriminatory, thereby bringing same-sex marriage to Saskatchewan.


==== Newfoundland and Labrador decision ====

Two lesbian couples brought suit on November 4, 2004, to have Newfoundland and Labrador recognize same-sex marriage. As with the previous decisions, the provincial government did not oppose the suit; moreover, the federal government actually supported it. The case went to trial on December 20 and the next day, Justice Derek Green ordered the provincial government to begin issuing marriage licences to same-sex couples, an order with which the provincial government announced it would comply.


==== New Brunswick decision ====

Two same-sex couples in New Brunswick brought suit in April 2005 to request an order requiring the provincial government to issue them marriage licences. This was granted in June 2005. Premier Bernard Lord, who personally opposed same-sex marriage, pledged to follow a directive to provide for same-sex marriages from the courts or from Parliament.


==== Proceedings in the Northwest Territories ====

On May 20, 2005, a gay male couple with a daughter brought suit in the Northwest Territories for the right to marry. Territorial Justice Minister Charles Dent had previously said that the government would not contest such a lawsuit. The case was to be heard on May 27 but ended when the federal government legalized same-sex marriage.


=== Discussion in Parliament, 1995–2003 ===
The shift in Canadian attitudes towards acceptance of same-sex marriage and recent court rulings caused the Parliament of Canada to reverse its position on the issue. On September 18, 1995, the House of Commons voted 124 to 52 to reject a motion introduced by openly gay member of Parliament Réal Ménard calling for the legal recognition of same-sex relationships. A 2006 study by Mark W. Lehman suggested that between 1997 and 2004, Canadian public opinion on legalizing same-sex marriage underwent a dramatic shift, moving from minority support to majority support and that this support was the result of a significant shift in positive feelings towards gays and lesbians.
The first bill to legalize same-sex marriage was a private member's bill tabled in the House of Commons by New Democratic MP Svend Robinson on March 25, 1998. Like most private members' bills, it did not progress past first reading, and was reintroduced in several subsequent parliaments. In 1999, the House of Commons overwhelmingly passed a resolution to re-affirm the definition of marriage as "the union of one man and one woman to the exclusion of all others". The following year, this definition of marriage was included in the revised Bill C-23, the Modernization of Benefits and Obligations Act 2000 (French: Loi sur la modernisation de certains régimes d'avantages et d'obligations), which continued to bar same-sex couples from full marriage rights. In early 2003, the issue once again resurfaced, and the House of Commons Standing Committee on Justice and Human Rights proceeded to undertake a formal study of same-sex marriage, including a cross-country series of public hearings. Just after the Ontario court decision, it voted to recommend that the federal government not appeal the ruling.
Civil status is of provincial jurisdiction in Canada. However, the definition of marriage is a matter of federal jurisdiction. On June 17, 2003, Prime Minister Chrétien announced that the government would not appeal the Ontario ruling, and that his government would introduce legislation to recognize same-sex marriage but protect the rights of religious groups to decide which marriages they would solemnize.

A draft of the bill was issued on July 17. It read:
Marriage, for civil purposes, is the lawful union of two persons to the exclusion of all others.
Nothing in this Act affects the freedom of officials of religious groups to refuse to perform marriages that are not in accordance with their religious beliefs.
The draft bill was subsequently referred to the Supreme Court of Canada.
On September 16, 2003, a motion was brought to Parliament by the Canadian Alliance (now the Conservative Party) to once again reaffirm the heterosexual definition of marriage. The same language that had been passed in 1999 was brought to a conscience vote, with members asked to vote for or against the 1999 definition of marriage as "the union of one man and one woman to the exclusion of all others". Motions are not legislatively binding in Canada, and are mostly done for symbolic purposes. The September vote was extremely divisive, however. Prime Minister Chrétien reversed his previous stance and voted against the motion, as did Paul Martin (who later became prime minister) and many other prominent Liberals. Several Liberals retained their original stance, however, and thus the vote was not defined purely along party lines. Controversially, over 30 members of the House did not attend the vote, the majority of whom were Liberals who had voted against legalizing same-sex marriage in 1999. In the end, the motion was narrowly rejected by a vote of 137–132.


=== Supreme Court Reference Re Same-Sex Marriage ===

In 2003, the Liberal government referred a draft bill on same-sex marriage to the Supreme Court of Canada, essentially asking it to review the bill's constitutionality before it was introduced. The reference, as originally posed by the Chrétien government, asked three questions:
Is the annexed Proposal for an Act respecting certain aspects of legal capacity for marriage for civil purposes within the exclusive legislative authority of the Parliament of Canada? If not, in what particular or particulars, and to what extent?
If the answer to question 1 is yes, is section 1 of the proposal, which extends capacity to marry to persons of the same sex, consistent with the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms? If not, in what particular or particulars, and to what extent?
Does the freedom of religion guaranteed by paragraph 2(a) of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms protect religious officials from being compelled to perform a marriage between two persons of the same sex that is contrary to their religious beliefs?
The government of Prime Minister Martin later added a fourth question in January 2004:

The addition of a fourth question considerably delayed the opening of the court reference until well after the June 2004 general election, raising accusations of stalling. In its hearings that began in October 2004, the Supreme Court of Canada accused the government of using the court for other goals when it declined to appeal rulings that altered the definition of marriage in several provinces; " Justice Ian Binnie said it 'may not fulfill any useful purpose' to examine traditional marriage all over again, 'given the policy decision of the government'". The Supreme Court of Canada ruled that the government has the authority to amend the definition of marriage but did not rule on whether or not such a change is required by the equality provisions of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms. The court stated that such a ruling is not necessary because the federal government had accepted the rulings of provincial courts to the effect that the change was required. The court also ruled that given the freedom of religion provisions in the Charter, and the wording of provincial human rights codes, it was highly unlikely that religious institutions could be compelled to perform same-sex marriages, though because solemnization of marriage is a matter for provincial governments, the proposed bill could not actually guarantee such protections.


=== Debate prior to C-38's introduction ===
On December 9, 2004, Prime Minister Martin indicated that the federal government would introduce legislation expanding marriage to same-sex couples. The government's decision was announced immediately following the court's answer in the Reference Re Same-Sex Marriage reference question. The parliamentary bill caused rifts in the House of Commons, especially among the governing Liberals. Many Liberal MPs indicated that they would oppose the government's position in favour of same-sex marriage at a free vote. The majority of each of the Liberal Party, the New Democratic Party and the Bloc Québécois voted in favour of the bill; the majority of the Conservative Party voted against the bill.
In 2000, Alberta had amended its Marriage Act to define marriage as being between "a man and a woman". The law included a notwithstanding clause in an attempt to protect the amendment from being invalidated under the Charter. However, the amendment was invalid since, under the Canadian Constitution, the definition of marriage is a federal right.
Complicating matters, Conservative Party leader Stephen Harper indicated that a Conservative government would work to restore the prohibition on same-sex marriage if Parliament voted to do so in a free vote. Following the court decision on December 9, Premier Ralph Klein of Alberta suggested that a national referendum be held on same-sex marriage, a measure Prime Minister Martin rejected.


=== Legislative progress of the Civil Marriage Act ===

Bill C-38, the Civil Marriage Act (French: Loi sur le mariage civil), was introduced to Parliament for its first reading in the House of Commons on February 1, 2005. Prime Minister Martin launched the debate on February 16. The bill passed second reading on May 4 and third reading on June 28, with votes of 164–137 and 158–133, respectively. It then moved to the Senate, and received its first reading on June 29. Debate was launched on July 4, and a Liberal closure motion limited debate on the bill to only four hours. Second reading and committing the bill occurred on July 6, with a vote of 43–12. The Senate passed the legislation on third reading by a margin of 47 to 21 on July 19, 2005. It received royal assent at the hand of Beverley McLachlin (in her capacity as the Deputy of the Governor General of Canada) on July 20, 2005.


=== Same-sex marriage in the 39th Parliament ===

The Conservative Party, led by Harper, won a minority government in the federal election on January 23, 2006. Harper had campaigned on the promise of holding a conscience vote on a motion to re-open the debate on same-sex marriage. The motion would re-open the same-sex marriage debate, but did not prescribe restoring the opposite-sex definition of marriage. A news report from CTV News on May 31, 2006, showed that a growing number of Conservatives were wary about re-opening the debate on same-sex marriage. One cabinet minister stated he just wanted the issue "to go away", while others including Chuck Strahl and Bill Casey were undecided, instead of directly opposed. Foreign Affairs Minister Peter MacKay noted that not a single constituent had approached him on the issue, and Minister for Fisheries and Oceans Loyola Hearn was against re-opening the debate.
By November 2006, the debate had shifted and it was the supporters of same-sex marriage that were arguing for a fall vote on the issue and the opponents who were lobbying for a delay. On December 6, 2006, the government brought in a motion asking if the issue of same-sex marriage debate should be re-opened. This motion was defeated the next day in a vote of 175 (nays) to 123 (yeas). Prime Minister Harper afterwards told reporters, "I don't see reopening this question in the future."


=== Post-2006 ===
In 2016, the Conservatives amended their party's constitution to recognize and support same-sex marriage.


=== Recognition of foreign legal unions ===
In Hincks v. Gallardo, the Ontario Superior Court of Justice decided on January 7, 2013, that same-sex partners who entered into civil partnerships in the United Kingdom are to be treated as married for the purposes of Canadian law.


=== Marriage statistics ===
From June 2003 (date of the first same-sex marriages in Ontario) to October 2006, 12,438 same-sex marriages were contracted in Canada.

By 2011, 21,015 same-sex marriages had been performed in Canada, with an additional 43,560 cohabiting same-sex couples. According to the 2016 census, there were 72,880 same-sex couples residing in Canada, of which 24,370 (33.4 per cent) were married. In British Columbia, 38.5 per cent of all same-sex couples were married, compared to 38.2 per cent in Ontario and 22.5 per cent in Quebec. 10,020 children were living in same-sex families.


== Other same-sex partner benefits in Canada ==


=== Other kinds of partnership ===

Canadian cohabiting same-sex couples are entitled to many of the same legal and financial benefits as married opposite-sex couples. In 1999, after the court case of M v H, the Supreme Court of Canada declared that same-sex partners must also be extended the rights and benefits of common-law relationships.
The province of Quebec also offers civil unions to same-sex couples. Nova Scotia's domestic partnerships offer similar benefits. Legislative changes between 2001 and 2004 extended the benefits of common-law relationships in Manitoba to same-sex couples as well as those of different sex. In 2003, Alberta passed a law recognizing adult interdependent relationships. These relationships provide specific financial benefits to interdependent adults, including blood relations.


=== Recognition in other provinces and territories ===

The legal status of same-sex marriages in provinces and territories that did not perform them was uncertain prior to the passage of the Civil Marriage Act. One of the couples that brought suit in Nova Scotia acted so that their Ontario marriage would be recognized.
Premier Ralph Klein wanted to prevent same-sex marriages from being performed or recognized in Alberta, but eventually admitted that the province's chances of doing so were slim to none, and said Alberta would obey the legislation. By contrast, the other remaining province without same-sex marriage, Prince Edward Island, announced that it would voluntarily bring its laws into compliance with the federal legislation.
In October 2003, Premier Paul Okalik announced that Nunavut would recognize same-sex marriages performed in other provinces and territories.


=== Immigration ===
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) acknowledges same-sex marriages contracted in Canada between immigration applicants and Canadian citizens or permanent residents. Canadians may also sponsor their same-sex common-law or civil union partners for family-class immigration, provided they meet various requirements, including proof of legitimacy and cohabitation for at least one year.
After the enactment of the Civil Marriage Act, IRCC adopted an interim immigration policy which did not recognize same-sex marriages conducted outside of Canada. For example, a Canadian citizen, legally married in the Netherlands to his or her same-sex Dutch partner, could not sponsor his or her Dutch partner for immigration as a spouse, despite the fact that both Dutch law and Canadian law made no distinction between opposite-sex and same-sex civil marriages, and despite the fact that IRCC did recognize a Dutch opposite-sex marriage.
On December 12, 2006, New Democratic Party MP Bill Siksay introduced a motion in the House of Commons of Canada Standing Committee on Citizenship and Immigration calling on the IRCC to immediately rescind the interim policy and "recognize legal marriages of gay and lesbian couples performed in jurisdictions outside Canada for purposes of immigration in exactly the same way as the legal marriages of heterosexual couples are recognized"; the committee voted to recommend that the government do this. In late January 2007, Citizenship and Immigration Minister Diane Finley informed the committee that this would be done. In February 2007, the IRCC website was updated to reflect the fact that the policy had been updated.


=== Military ===

Since September 2003, military chaplains have been allowed to bless same-sex unions and to perform these ceremonies on a military base.


=== Survivor benefits ===
On December 19, 2003, an Ontario court ruled that survivor benefits for Canadians whose same-sex partners died should be retroactive to April 1985, the date the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms came into effect. The federal government appealed. On March 1, 2007, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that the federal government must pay Canada Pension Plan benefits to surviving same-sex spouses. Initial news reports indicated that the court limited retroactive benefits to only 12 months' worth, but in fact, some survivors may be entitled to benefits dating back to 2000.


== Same-sex divorce in Canada ==
On September 13, 2004, a lesbian couple known as "M.M." and "J.H." (the initials of their respective lawyers) in Ontario were granted Canada's first same-sex divorce. Their initial divorce application had been denied based on the fact that the federal Divorce Act (French: Loi sur le divorce) defined spouse as "either of a man or a woman who are married to each other". However, Madam Justice Ruth Mesbur of the Ontario Superior Court of Justice ruled in M.M. v J.H that the definition of "spouse" in the Divorce Act was unconstitutional. In June 2005, a lesbian couple residing in British Columbia obtained a similar ruling.
The Civil Marriage Act in 2005 amended the Divorce Act to permit same-sex divorce. However, prior to 2013, a married couple (same-sex or opposite-sex) could file for divorce in Canada only if at least one spouse was then residing in Canada and had been for at least one full year when the divorce was filed.
In 2012, after the Attorney General of Canada, Rob Nicholson, suggested in a divorce case brought in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice that non-residents of Canada did not have valid marriages if such marriages were not recognized by their home jurisdictions, the Conservative government announced that they would fix this "legislative gap". A government bill, the Civil Marriage of Non-residents Act (French: Loi sur le mariage civil de non-résidents), positively declaring such marriages legal in Canada and allowing non-residents to divorce in a Canadian court if prohibited from doing so in their home jurisdictions, was introduced and received first reading on February 17, 2012, and passed third and final reading on June 18, 2013. The bill then received a quick passage through the Senate and passed third and final reading on June 21, receiving royal assent by Governor General David Johnston on June 26. The law came into effect on August 14 by Order of the Governor General in Council made the previous day.


== Church and state ==
Based on the 2001 census, 80 per cent of the Canadian population were initiated into one of the three main Abrahamic religions (Judaism, Islam, and Christianity). All three have texts interpreted by some to declare sexual relations between people of the same sex as forbidden and sinful, and have been opposed to the recognition of same-sex unions. However, some major religious groups spoke in favour of legalizing same-sex marriage. The largest Protestant denomination in the country, the United Church of Canada, offers church weddings to same-sex couples and supports same-sex marriages, testifying to this effect during the cross-country Justice Committee hearings. Unitarian Universalist congregations also solemnize same-sex marriages, as do the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers), the Metropolitan Community Church and the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Canada. Some progressive Jewish congregations have also supported same-sex marriage.
The General Synod of the Anglican Church of Canada passed an initial motion in July 2016 to perform same-sex marriages in their churches. The measure had to be approved a second time at the next General Synod in 2019 to come into force. The Anglican Church of Canada does not specifically prohibit same-sex marriage. On July 12, 2019, the General Synod did not approve the motion at its second reading. In spite of support by the laity and clergy, the motion did not pass because it was not supported by a full two-thirds of the bishops. Director of Communications Meghan Kilty said that many dioceses have been performing same-sex marriages, including the dioceses of Toronto, Ottawa, British Columbia and others. Kilty added that many dioceses would continue to perform such services since there is no specific prohibition by the Church.
In July 2003, the hierarchy of the Catholic Church in Canada protested the government's plans to include same-sex couples in civil marriage. This was significant because Catholicism has a larger number of adherents in Canada than any other religion or denomination, with 43.6 per cent of the population identifying themselves as Catholic in 2005. The church criticisms were accompanied by Vatican claims that Catholic politicians should vote according to their personal beliefs rather than the policy of the government. Amid a subsequent backlash in opinion, the Church remained remarkably quiet on the subject, at least in public, until late 2004, when two Catholic bishops clearly stated their opposition to same-sex marriage. The Bishop of Calgary, Frederick Henry, in a pastoral letter urged Catholics to fight against the legalization of same-sex marriage, calling homosexual behaviour "an evil act". Bishop Henry's letter also seemed to urge the outlawing of homosexual acts, saying, "Since homosexuality, adultery, prostitution and pornography undermine the foundations of the family, the basis of society, then the State must use its coercive power to proscribe or curtail them in the interests of the common good." Two human rights complaints were filed against Henry soon afterwards under the Alberta Human Rights Act, one of which was dropped at the conciliation stage.
The Hutterite Brethren spoke out against same-sex marriage in a letter written to Prime Minister Martin in February 2005. The group has historically not involved themselves with politics. The Humanist Association of Canada, which endorses a non-theistic, non-religious ethical philosophy to life and full separation of church and state, has been supportive of same-sex marriage. Local affiliate groups of the Humanist Association offer officiancy services across Canada. Representatives of the World Sikh Organization testified before the Senate Committee on Legal and Constitutional Affairs in favour of the Civil Marriage Act.


== Public opinion ==


=== 1990s ===
A 1996 Angus Reid Institute/Southam News opinion poll, conducted across Canada, found that 49 per cent of Canadians supported same-sex marriage, while 47 per cent were opposed. Support was highest in Quebec (58 per cent) and among 18–34-year-olds (67 per cent), and lowest in Alberta (38 per cent) and people over the age of 54 (25 per cent). In 1999, the group found support at 53 per cent with 44 per cent opposed.


=== 2000s ===
An April 2001 Environics Research Group survey showed that 45 per cent of Canadians supported same-sex marriage (29 per cent "strongly" and 16 per cent "somewhat"), while 41 per cent opposed (30 per cent "strongly" and 11 per cent "somewhat"). A June 2002 survey conducted by Focus on the Family Canada, a conservative Christian organization opposed to same-sex marriage, found that 46 per cent of Canadians agreed same-sex marriage should be legalized whereas 44 per cent disagreed. A poll conducted by the Centre for Research and Information on Canada in October 2002 showed that 53 per cent of Canadians supported same-sex marriage, while 41 per cent were opposed. A November 2002 Ekos/CBC poll asked respondents if they would vote "yes" or "no" in a referendum on the issue of same-sex marriage. 47 per cent answered "no" and 45 per cent answered "yes", while 8 per cent did not know.
A 2005 opinion poll taken shortly before Parliament voted on the Civil Marriage Act found that 42 per cent of Canadians favoured the nationwide legalization of same-sex marriage, while 40 per cent were opposed and 18 per cent did not respond or were undecided. A June 2006 poll conducted by Ekos asked respondents if the debate on same-sex marriage should be reopened. 62 per cent considered same-sex marriage settled, 27 per cent wanted to reopen the issue, and 11 per cent either had no opinion or did not respond.


=== 2010s ===
In 2012, a poll by Forum Research showed that 66.4 per cent of Canadians approved of legalized same-sex marriage, while 33.6 per cent were opposed. Support for same-sex marriage was highest in Quebec (72 per cent) and British Columbia (70.2 per cent), while lowest in Alberta (45.6 per cent). A May 2013 Ipsos poll of residents of 16 countries found that 63 per cent of respondents in Canada were in favour of same-sex marriage and another 13 per cent supported other forms of recognition for same-sex couples.
After same-sex marriage in the United States was legalized by their Supreme Court in Obergefell v. Hodges in June 2015, a poll by Forum Research showed that 70 per cent of Canadians approved of same-sex marriage, while 22 per cent disapproved.
In May 2016, members of the Conservative Party of Canada voted 1,036–462 to change the party's political platform from defining marriage as "a union between one man and one woman" to a neutral stance. As a compromise, the party did not elect to support the right to same-sex marriage, allowing members "the freedom to hold personal opinions against same-sex marriage".
A 2017 CROP poll showed that 74 per cent of Canadians found it "great that in Canada, two people of the same sex can get married", while 26 per cent disagreed. Support for same-sex marriage was higher among women (79 per cent) than men (70 per cent) and higher among French speakers (82 per cent) than English speakers (73 per cent). Those with a higher income, a university degree or who were born in Canada were also more likely to support same-sex marriage. When divided by age, young people were overwhelmingly in support (82 per cent among 18–24-year-olds and 86 per cent among 25–34-year-olds) and, while people over 65 were less likely to be in favour, same-sex marriage still enjoyed 66 per cent popular support among people of that age group. The most supportive province was Quebec (80 per cent), followed by 78 per cent in the four Atlantic provinces, 75 per cent in British Columbia, 73 per cent in Ontario, 70 per cent in Manitoba and Saskatchewan and 68 per cent in Alberta. The 2017 AmericasBarometer showed that 76 per cent of Canadians supported same-sex marriage. 


=== 2020s ===
A 2020 Research Co. poll found that 67 per cent of Canadians supported same-sex marriage remaining legal. A 2022 Research Co. poll found that number had remained quite stable, at 66 per cent.
A Pew Research Center poll conducted between February and May 2023 showed that 79 per cent of Canadians supported same-sex marriage, 15 per cent were opposed and 6 per cent did not know or refused to answer. When divided by political affiliation, support was highest among those on the left and the centre of the political spectrum at 85 per cent, followed by those on the right at 71 per cent.


== See also ==

LGBTQ rights in Canada
Marriage in Canada
Members of the 38th Canadian Parliament and same-sex marriage
Members of the 39th Canadian Parliament and same-sex marriage
Religion in Canada
Timeline of LGBTQ history
2005 in LGBTQ rights
Recognition of same-sex unions in the Americas
He never married


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Hull, Kathleen (2006), Same-sex marriage: the cultural politics of love and law, Cambridge Univ. Press, ISBN 0521672511
Lahey, Kathleen A; Alderson, Kevin (2004), Same-sex marriage: the personal and the political, Insomniac Press, ISBN 1-894663-63-2
Larocque, Sylvain (2006). Gay Marriage: The Story of a Canadian Social Revolution. Toronto: James Lorimer & Company. ISBN 1-55028-927-6.


== External links ==

Website of Egale Canada
Website of Canadians for Equal Marriage
Website of Marriage Vote Canada Archived October 7, 2008, at the Wayback Machine
Website of Defend Marriage Canada Archived June 16, 2006, at the Wayback Machine
Redefining Marriage? A Case for Caution Archived July 23, 2020, at the Wayback Machine, Brief to the Parliamentary Justice Committee
CBC News Indepth: Same-Sex Marriage in Canada Archived June 10, 2008, at the Wayback Machine
Full text of NFO CF Group survey (PDF) Archived September 10, 2008, at the Wayback Machine
"Supreme Court OK's same-sex marriage". CBC News. December 10, 2004. Archived from the original on October 16, 2006.

Gainfield is a small ribbon development in Buckland civil parish about 4 miles (6.4 km) east of Faringdon in the Vale of the White Horse District of England. It was part of Berkshire until the 1974 boundary changes transferred it to Oxfordshire.  Buckland is on the B4508 road by the crossroads with the road between Buckland and Charney Bassett, about 1.5 miles (2.4 km) north of Stanford in the Vale. It is opposite a wood called Buckland Warren.  There is a legend, linked with that of nearby Cherbury Camp, that tells of the land being given as a reward to a young shepherd boy who saved the inhabitants of the camp by his vigilance. Gainfield is a modern settlement, developed in the late 20th century on lands belonging to Gainfield Farm. Gainfield Farm appears to represent the meeting place of the hundred of Ganfield, one of the ancient hundreds of Berkshire, known to have been in the parish of Buckland.


== References ==

The following events occurred in April 1965:


== April 1, 1965 (Thursday) ==
U.S. President Lyndon Johnson authorized a change in the U.S. Marines' mission in South Vietnam, a month after the first units had been sent to protect installations at Da Nang from attack. For the first time, American ground troops were scheduled to move into the surrounding area and to engage Viet Cong and North Vietnamese forces in combat.
In the United Kingdom, the Greater London Council came into power, replacing the London County Council and greatly expanding the metropolitan area of the city.
The Man with the Golden Gun, Ian Fleming's thirteenth James Bond novel, was first published by Jonathan Cape, being published eight months after Ian's death.
The last of the Titan I intercontinental ballistic missiles were taken off alert, as the United States began reliance on the new Atlas missiles.
Tasman Empire Airways Limited (TEAL), established on April 26, 1940, changed its name to Air New Zealand.
Born: Mark Jackson, American basketball player for 17 years in the NBA, for seven teams, and NBA coach for three years; in Brooklyn
Died: Helena Rubinstein, 92, Polish-American cosmetics entrepreneur and businesswoman


== April 2, 1965 (Friday) ==
Prime Minister Zhou Enlai of the People's Republic of China met with Pakistan's President, Mohammed Ayub Khan, and presented a four-point statement on the Vietnam War to forward to U.S. President Johnson, in that the U.S. and Communist China had no diplomatic relations. Via Khan, Zhou informed Johnson that his nation would not provoke a war with the United States, but an American ground invasion of North Vietnam would risk war with China. Zhou added that China was ready to provide aid to "any country opposing U.S. aggression"; and that China was prepared to use nuclear weapons to defend its territory. "Once the war breaks out," the statement concluded, "it will have no boundaries."
The annual private conference of the Bilderberg Group, composed of top bankers and politicians from North America and Europe, began at Villa d'Este, Italy. Because of the secrecy of the proceedings and the importance of the participants, critics of the Group suspect it of promoting a world government. The topics of the 1965 discussions were "Monetary cooperation in the Western world" and "The state of the Atlantic Alliance".
A musical adaptation of the John Reed book Ten Days That Shook the World, presented by Soviet theatrical producer Yuri Lyubimov, was performed for the first time, at the Taganka Theatre in Moscow. Loosely based on the events of the 1917 Revolution, Desyat' dnei, kotorye potryasli mir was billed as "a popular performance in two parts with mime, circus, buffoonery and shootings".
Morocco won the five-nation African basketball championship tournament, authorized by FIBA, the Fédération Internationale de Basketball Amateur. Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria, Senegal, and Libya played at Tunis in a round robin format, with Morocco beating those teams, respectively, 70–57, 83–39, 59–44 and 79–45.
Born: Rodney King, American taxi driver and central figure in the 1992 Los Angeles riots; in Sacramento, California (d. 2012)
Died: Krishna Kumarsinhji Bhavsinhji, 52, Indian monarch and politician, last Maharaja of the Bhavnagar State and first Governor of Madras State (now Tamil Nadu)


== April 3, 1965 (Saturday) ==
The first jet-to-jet combat of the Vietnam War took place when four U.S. Navy F-8E Crusaders from the USS Hancock carried out a mission against the Thanh Hóa Bridge, and were engaged by eight MiG-17 fighters from the 921st Sao Do Regiment of the North Vietnamese Air Force. One of the F-8Es, piloted by Lieutenant Commander Spence Thomas, was set on fire by cannons fired from a MiG-17 piloted by NVAF Captain Pham Ngoc Lan, but Thomas was able to land safely at Da Nang. Ngoc Lan ran out of fuel and survived a crash landing. In future years, April 3 would be a Vietnamese public holiday commemorated as "Air Force Day".
SNAP-10A, the first nuclear reactor launched into space, and the only one ever sent by the United States, was sent aloft from Vandenberg AFB, California, and placed into an orbit 815 miles (1,312 km) above the Earth. "SNAP" was an acronym for Systems for Nuclear Auxiliary Power. The cesium-fueled ion engine would be shut down after 43 days "to permit the radioactive material in the reactor to decay to safe levels...  before the spacecraft reenters the atmosphere", according to a spokesman, which was not expected to happen for 3,000 years.
The longest session of parliament in Canada's history ended at 3:00 in the morning in Ottawa, after holding its 249th and final sitting day since opening on February 18, 1964. Only 50 of the 265 members of the House of Commons, and just 30 Senators, remained at the close, with plans to open a new session on Monday.
Born: Nazia Hassan, Pakistani singer-songwriter known as the "Queen of South Asian Pop"; in Karachi (died of lung cancer, 2000)
Died: Ray Enright, 69, American director of 73 films between 1927 and 1953


== April 4, 1965 (Sunday) ==
The coronation of Palden Thondup Namgyal as the King of Sikkim took place at a Buddhist chapel in Gangtok, the capital of the protectorate of India, as Sikkim's 170,000 citizens were permitted to watch on a special television circuit. Palden, who had succeeded upon the death of his father, Tashi Namgyal, on December 2, 1963, was crowned Chogyal and his wife, the former Miss Hope Cooke of San Francisco, wore the crown of the gyalmo (Queen consort). The monarchy would be abolished almost ten years to the day afterward, on April 10, 1975, and Sikkim would become the 23rd state of India.
During a U.S. Air Force strike on the Thanh Hóa Bridge, Vietnam People's Air Force MiG-17 fighters attacked a formation of U.S. Air Force F-105 Thunderchief strike aircraft, shooting down two F-105s. Captain James Magnusson and Major Frank Bennett were both killed when their jets, the first aircraft lost in air-to-air combat by either side during the Vietnam War, were downed.
Born:
Elaine Zayak, former U.S. figure skater who overcame the loss of part of her left foot to win the women's world figure skating championship in 1982; in Paramus, New Jersey
Robert Downey Jr., American film star best known for his portrayal of Tony Stark as Iron Man; in Manhattan


== April 5, 1965 (Monday) ==
The FBI arrested former U.S. Army Sergeant James Allen Mintkenbaugh, who had been spying for the Soviet KGB intelligence agency, in Castro Valley, California. In his confession, Mintkenbaugh identified a high-level U.S. Department of Defense employee, Sergeant Robert Lee Johnson, as his partner in espionage since 1953. Later in the day, Johnson was arrested while working at his desk inside The Pentagon. Sergeant Johnson, unhappy in being passed over for a promotion, had supplied his Soviet handlers with details of American nuclear missiles, classified documents and photographs, and a sample of rocket fuel, and received $25,000 in return. On July 30, 1965, he and Mintkenbaugh would be sentenced to 25 years in prison. Johnson would serve only seven years before being stabbed to death in 1972.
A U.S. Navy RF-8 Crusader reconnaissance aircraft photographed an SA-2 Guideline surface-to-air missile (SAM) site under construction in North Vietnam for the first time. The discovery, 15 miles (24 km) southeast of Hanoi, of an antiaircraft system that could fire the SA-2 guided missile "sent shivers down the spines of task force commanders and line aviators alike", a historian would note later, but official permission to attack a site so close to the capital of North Vietnam would not be given "until the Navy and Air Force lost a few jets to the SA-2s".
At the 37th Academy Awards, My Fair Lady won eight Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Director. Rex Harrison won an Oscar for Best Actor. Mary Poppins took home five Oscars. Julie Andrews won an Academy Award for Best Actress, for her portrayal in the role. The Sherman Brothers received two Oscars including Best Song, "Chim Chim Cher-ee".
Manned Spacecraft Center announced that Walter M. Schirra, Jr., and Thomas P. Stafford had been selected as command pilot and pilot for Gemini 6, the first Project Gemini rendezvous and docking mission. Virgil I. Grissom and John W. Young would be the backup crew.


== April 6, 1965 (Tuesday) ==
Early Bird, a communications satellite, was launched as the first offering of the private Intelsat (International Telecommunications Satellite Consortium, initially a group of 11 member nations). "This launch marks the beginning of the global village linked instantaneously by commercial communications satellites", an author would note later. Early Bird would be moved to a stationary geosynchronous orbit, 22,300 miles (35,900 km) above the Atlantic Ocean, on May 2. With 240 available circuits, the satellite could "relay signals in either direction between Europe and the United States virtually on a twenty-four-hour basis"; a satellite TV broadcast would reduce the available capacity for long-distance telephone and telegraph links by 75 percent.
The United Kingdom enacted its first capital gains tax, a tax upon the profit realized from the sale of assets based on the sale price, minus the BDV (the "Budget Day Value" being the value of the property on April 6, 1965); the law initially applied to real estate and buildings.
The British government publicly announced cancellation of the BAC TSR-2 nuclear bomber aircraft project.
Born:
Rica Reinisch, East German swimmer who set the world records for the women's 100 meter and 200 meter backstroke at the age of 15; in Seifhennersdorf
Black Francis (stage name for Charles Thompson IV), American alternative rock singer and songwriter; in Boston, Massachusetts


== April 7, 1965 (Wednesday) ==
U.S. President Lyndon Johnson delivered the "Peace Without Conquest" speech at Johns Hopkins University, explaining the reasons for the escalation of the American involvement in the Vietnam War. An author would note later that, "While the speech at Johns Hopkins provided short-term gains, it proved counterproductive in the long run, for it began the erosion of Johnson's credibility, which eventually derailed his presidency." Johnson offered "unconditional discussions" with North Vietnam for peace, emphasizing that there was the condition of keeping South Vietnam independent and non-Communist. He also pledged a one billion dollar investment, the Lower Mekong Basin Project, comparing the endeavor to the Tennessee Valley Authority development.
Australia's Prime Minister Robert Menzies decided to commit 800 Army troops from the 1st Battalion to the Vietnam War, despite not consulting with the full cabinet. Menzies would not announce the decision in Parliament until April 29, a day after the media broke the story.
Canada's Prime Minister Lester Pearson and his Liberal Party government won a vote of no confidence brought by the New Democratic Party. The measure failed, 84–129, when 24 members of other parties joined the 105 Liberals voting against the motion.
In the 1965 parliamentary election for 144 seats in the Dáil Éireann, the first to be covered on television, the ruling Fianna Fáil party obtained an additional two legislators, giving it a majority of exactly one-half, with 72 seats.
Born: Bill Bellamy, American comedian; in Newark, New Jersey


== April 8, 1965 (Thursday) ==
A plot to overthrow the leaders of Bulgaria was foiled by the arrest of the commander of the Bulgarian Army garrison in Sofia, Major General Tsvyatko Anev. Ivan Todorov-Gorunia, a member of the Bulgarian Communist Party Central Committee and the leader of the nine-man conspiracy, committed suicide before he could be caught. The plan, co-ordinated by a group of party officials and military leaders, was to force the overthrow of Secretary General Todor Zhivkov and his allies at the April 14 Central Committee meeting. Ultimately, more than 250 military officers were dismissed and 192 members of the Party were imprisoned.
At the United Nations General Assembly in New York, North Vietnam's Prime Minister Pham Van Dong delivered his nation's "Four Points" plan for ending the Vietnam War, as drafted by a team of foreign relations officials under his leadership and that of President Ho Chi Minh, Communist Party First Secretary Le Duan, and Foreign Minister Nguyen Duy Trinh. The North Vietnamese demands were unacceptable to the United States and South Vietnam, primarily because they were based on the Viet Cong provisions for "the peaceful reunification of Vietnam without foreign intervention".
A mutiny by 20 young officers ousted Admiral Chung Tấn Cang as commander of the South Vietnamese Navy in an action "that evidently had the government's blessing". The military junta governing South Vietnam did not order a response, and one U.S. official commented that Cang, an associate of recently ousted President Nguyen Khanh, "has been a thorn in our side", because of his lack of cooperation in moving military supplies.
The Merger Treaty (or "Brussels Treaty"), a European treaty which combined the executive bodies of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC), the European Atomic Energy Community (Euratom) and the European Economic Community (EEC) into a single institutional structure, was signed in Brussels. It would enter into force on July 1, 1967, after being ratified by the six member nations.
The U.S. House of Representatives voted 313–115 to approve the Medicare program, and sent the bill on to the U.S. Senate. The vote came after only one day of debate. With 513 amendments, the bill would pass the U.S. Senate, 70–24, on July 28, and be signed into law on July 30.
India and Pakistan clashed at the border between their two nations around the disputed Rann of Kutch, with Pakistani troops attacking police posts in the western Indian state of Gujarat, and Indian troops striking at guard posts in the southeastern Pakistani province of Sindh.
China's President Liu Shaoqi hosted North Vietnam's Le Duan in Beijing, and made a commitment for military and economic aid to Hanoi, including the supply of Chinese pilots to provide defense against U.S. bombing.
Two U.S. Navy F-4B Phantom fighters flew into Chinese airspace and were tracked by radar flying over the Yulin Naval Base on Hainan Island, but departed before the Chinese military could respond to an alert.
The Soviet Union and Poland renewed the "Treaty of Friendship, Cooperation, and Mutual Assistance" that they had signed on April 21, 1945.
Died:
Major General John K. Hester, 48, commander of the U.S. 17th Air Force at Ramstein Air Force Base in West Germany, died five days after being seriously injured during a parachute jump.
Lars Hanson, 78, Swedish stage and film star


== April 9, 1965 (Friday) ==
In Houston, the Harris County Domed Stadium (later known as the Astrodome) opened with an exhibition baseball game between the Houston Astros and the New York Yankees. The game, the first Major League Baseball contest to be played indoors, took place before a crowd of 47,876 people that included the President and Lady Bird Johnson, and the home team won, 2–1. Fans who watched batting practice during the daylight hours saw the flaw in the indoor stadium design: the transparent panels and the pattern of interconnecting girders on the dome created glare when the sun was out, and the outfielders lost track of fly balls. "The players shagging fly balls in left and center field particularly stumbled, hesitated, covered their heads in self defense or threw up both hands in despair," a UPI report noted the next day, often missing the path of the ball "by yards and yards". Daytime exhibition games on Saturday and Sunday were not affected by the glare because of cloudy skies, but the Astros' owner was prepared to cancel a game "if... it develops into a keystone comedy act with players on both sides unable to follow the flight of a ball". Before the next afternoon home game, the team solved the problem by painting over the clear panels, which would cause a different problem because the natural grass could not grow without sunlight.
The 100th anniversary of the end of the American Civil War was observed in ceremonies near Appomattox, Virginia. Virginia Governor Albertis S. Harrison, Jr., known for resisting school integration while serving as the state attorney general, told thousands of listeners that "the belief and the principles for which the Confederate forces fought are still with us... All that was really surrendered here a century ago was the idea that these beliefs and the principles could best be served by dividing this nation in two, and that differences between Americans could really be settled by armed conflict." Speakers at the dedication of the reconstructed Appomattox Courthouse included retired Major General Ulysses S. Grant III, and Robert E. Lee IV of San Francisco.
The day after two F-4B Phantoms had flown over the Yulin Naval Base, two groups of American planes, each with four U.S. Navy F-4Bs, flew over China's Hainan Island. This time, a squadron of four Jian-5 jet fighters from the People's Liberation Army Air Force intercepted them, with instructions not to fire unless fired upon. The American pilots stated that they had believed that they were outside China's airspace, and in an area 36 miles southwest of Hainan, while China accused the U.S. of trying to provoke a war.
The Beatles' song "Ticket to Ride" was released as a single in the United Kingdom, and reached number one on the British chart of best-selling singles that was published five days later. It would be released in the United States on April 19, and reach number one on Billboard on May 22.
West Germany's Bundesrat, the upper house of parliament, voted by a show of hands to approve the bill to extend the statute of limitations on prosecution of Nazi war crimes, up to January 1, 1970. The Bundestag had voted its approval on March 25.
U.S. Navy F-4 Phantom IIs of Fighter Squadron 96 (VF-96) clashed with Chinese MiG-17 fighters over the South China Sea south of Hainan. Each side lost one fighter.
An explosion killed 19 coal miners in a mine on Iwo Jima, and left another 11 missing.
Born: Paulina Porizkova, Czech-born American model; in Prostějov


== April 10, 1965 (Saturday) ==
All 54 people on board a Royal Jordanian Airlines flight were killed when the plane caught fire and crashed into a mountain in Syria near Damascus at an altitude of 4,200 feet (1,300 m). Nearly all of the passengers were from Belgium and were on a vacation tour of the Middle East, and were flying from Beirut to Amman on their way from Lebanon to Jordan. Another 12 members from the tour group had been turned away at the airport because the Herald turboprop only had room for 50 passengers.
The Shah of Iran, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, narrowly escaped an assassination attempt made by one of his bodyguards, Reza Shamsabadi, who fired a machine gun at him as he arrived at the Marble Palace in Tehran. The Shah was able to get inside his office and take cover behind his desk, and Shamsabadi was mortally wounded by two other guards, who died from his machine gun fire.
The Soviet spacecraft Luna E-6 No.8, intended to be the first spacecraft to perform a soft landing on the Moon, was lost in a launch failure when a nitrogen pipeline in the oxidizer tank depressurized, causing a loss of oxidizer flow to the engine and resulting in the engine cutting off. The spacecraft failed to achieve orbit, and disintegrated on re-entry.
World lightweight boxing champion Carlos Ortiz lost his title in a 15-round bout in Panama City to Panamanian boxer Ismael Laguna. Going into the match, Ortiz had a record of 45 wins and only four losses, but had underestimated Laguna's abilities and had elected not to train as rigorously as usual. Ortiz, a native of Puerto Rico, would regain the title seven months later in a rematch in San Juan.
The Egyptian-appointed Governor of the Gaza Strip issued the "Liberation Tax Law", assessing a tax on all commercial revenues within the Palestinian territory. Money collected from the tax was used to fund the Palestine Liberation Organization.
Died: Linda Darnell, 43, American film actress, died from burns in an apartment fire. Darnell had stayed up late with her secretary at her Chicago home after noting that one of her films, Star Dust, was being shown at 12:40 a.m. on The Late Late Show on Channel 2, and fell asleep afterward while smoking a cigarette.


== April 11, 1965 (Sunday) ==

President Johnson signed the new $1.3 billion Elementary and Secondary Education Act into law in a ceremony near Stonewall, Texas, conducted in front of the school that he attended as a child. Present as an honored guest was his first schoolteacher, "Miss Kate" (by then, the 72-year-old Kate Deadrich Loney). For the first time, the federal government had power over the operation of American schools, "with the carrot of substantial federal aid now available" to schools that complied with mandates from Washington, and the reality that "the removal of federal aid could now serve as a stick to force compliance."
At least 55 tornadoes caused destruction in the Midwestern United States, striking Iowa, Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, and Ohio, killing 271 people, injuring as many as 5,000 and causing more than $250,000,000 in damages. Towns hardest hit were Pittsfield, Ohio, where all 15 homes and two buildings were destroyed, and nine of its 50 residents were killed; Russiaville, Indiana; and Alto, Indiana. The first twister was sighted at 1:30 p.m. in Dubuque, Iowa; flooding from the thunderstorms that followed caused further death and destruction in those states along the Mississippi River.
Retired Rear Admiral William F. Raborn, Jr., was appointed as the new U.S. Director of Central Intelligence.
The West German cargo ship Transatlantic sank in the Saint Lawrence River, near Trois Rivieres, Quebec, after colliding with the Dutch ship MV Hermes. One of her 14 crew was killed and two were reported missing.
Soviet composer Rodion Shchedrin's Second Symphony, noted for its "modernistic score", was performed for the first time.
Born: Eelco van Asperen, Dutch computer scientist who contributed to the original World Wide Web project; in Rotterdam (d. 2013)


== April 12, 1965 (Monday) ==
TASS, the Soviet news agency, announced that proof of an extraterrestrial civilization had been discovered by radio astronomers at the Sternberg Astronomical Institute in Moscow, and astronomer Nikolai Kardashev was quoted as saying, "A new supercivilization has been discovered." The conclusions were based on observations by Kardashev and Iosif Shklovsky of a variable pattern of signals from the quasar CTA-102. The next day, Shklovsky held a press conference in Moscow and conceded that "to speak now about the artificial origin of the signals would be premature", and criticized TASS for "the distorted version" of his remarks and for causing "unhealthy sensationalism".


== April 13, 1965 (Tuesday) ==
Dick Wantz, a relief pitcher, played his first (and only) major league baseball game, coming in during the 8th inning for the Los Angeles Angels during their 7–1 loss on Opening Day to the visiting Cleveland Indians. During his time on the mound, Wantz struck out two players and allowed 3 hits and 2 runs. Wantz was suffering from regular headaches; after being placed on the disabled list on May 8 in Los Angeles, he was diagnosed with a brain tumor and died on May 13, the night after surgery and exactly a month after his major league appearance.
The U.S. House of Representatives voted 367 to 29 to approve the proposed 25th Amendment to the Constitution, dealing with procedures for filling a vacancy in the office of the Vice President, and for allowing an acting president if the President was under a disability. The U.S. Senate had approved a similar motion, 72–0. Opposing the amendment were 21 Democrats and eight Republicans. Nevada would, on February 10, 1967, become the 38th state to ratify the amendment, which would be certified on February 23.
Lawrence Bradford, Jr., a 16-year-old high school student from New York, broke an unwritten rule that had prevailed for 176 years, becoming the first African-American to serve as a page boy in the United States Congress. Bradford was appointed by Republican U.S. Senator Jacob K. Javits of New York, with the backing of Senate Republican Leader Everett Dirksen.
The last resident of the remote village of Colette di Usseux, located in the Piedmontese Alps of Italy, was found dead. Battista Jannin, 50, had watched all of the residents move away from the location because of its bitter winter cold, impoverished farmlands and the threat of avalanches, and had committed suicide with a gunshot.
The government of Prime Minister Wilson survived the latest vote of no confidence in the British House of Commons, by a vote of 290 for and 316 against, a slimmer majority than the previous attempt.
Needing to come up with a song to reflect the new title of their upcoming film, formerly called "Eight Arms To Hold You", The Beatles recorded the song "Help!".
Born: Patricio Pouchulu, Argentine architect; in Buenos Aires


== April 14, 1965 (Wednesday) ==
The crash of British United Airways Flight 1030X, killed 26 of the 27 people on board. After aborting its first landing attempt at Jersey Airport in the Channel Islands, the Douglas C-47B, struck the outermost pole of the approach lighting system with its right wing on its second attempt, and the aircraft rolled upside down. The lone survivor, 23-year-old flight attendant Dominique Silliere, had both legs broken.
The United States and South Vietnam began "Operation Fact Sheet", a psychological warfare aerial mission, dropping over two million notices on those cities in North Vietnam with military facilities. The paper leaflets carried different types of messages written in the Vietnamese language. Some of them warned civilians to stay away from the areas that were to be bombed, and others suggested that civilians "could end the bombings by turning against their government", or advocated the benefits of moving to South Vietnam. During April, May, June, and March, nearly 25 million papers were dropped. "The leaflets had no effect on North Vietnamese strategy", an author would note later, "but they did result in a few civilians moving away from military facilities."
Born: Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, al-Qaeda terrorist and organizer of the September 11 terror attacks; in Balochistan, Pakistan
Died: Richard Hickock, 33, and Perry Smith, 36, whose murder of four members of the Clutter family would become the subject of the bestselling book In Cold Blood, were hanged at the Kansas State Penitentiary for Men in Lansing, Kansas. Hickock was hanged first, at 12:19 a.m.; at his request, the book's author Truman Capote appeared as an official witness. Smith was hanged less than 45 minutes later, at 1:02 a.m.


== April 15, 1965 (Thursday) ==
West Germany paid Israel $75 million in cash and goods, the 13th and final installment of three billion deutschemarks ($882,000,000) in reparations for the costs associated with the relocation of 500,000 Holocaust survivors from Germany to Israel and their subsequent support by the Israeli government. Payments had commenced in 1952, and most were in the form of the fair market value of West German products and services as requested by a purchasing office in Köln. The last head of the Israeli purchasing mission, Dr. Felix Shinnar, told the press that the reparations "paid for construction of 49 Israeli merchant ships and equipment and machinery for 500 Israeli industrial enterprises".
The first prototype of the Aérospatiale SA 330 Puma helicopter made its maiden flight.
Production of the play The Amen Corner opened at the Ethel Barrymore Theatre in New York City.
Born: Linda Perry, American songwriter and singer; in Springfield, Massachusetts


== April 16, 1965 (Friday) ==
In Huntsville, Alabama, scientists made the first test of the most powerful rocket engine system ever developed, the first stage of the three-stage Saturn rocket, composed of five engines that could combine for 7.5 million pounds of thrust. "The thunderous sound of the first static test of this stage," an author would later note, "brought home to many observers that the Kennedy goal" (of sending a man to the Moon before the end of the decade) "was within technological grasp."
Dr. Alan Frank Guttmacher, the President of Planned Parenthood, told a gathering of the American Academy of General Practice in San Francisco that if the birth rate was not decreased, the world's population would be 150 billion people by the year 2050. By 2015, the United Nations' prediction for the world's population for 2050 was 9.6 billion people.
Born:
Martin Lawrence, American film and television comedian; at a U.S. military base in Frankfurt, Hesse, West Germany
Jon Cryer, American film and television comedian; in New York City
Died: Sydney Chaplin, 80, English actor and half-brother and business manager for Charlie Chaplin


== April 17, 1965 (Saturday) ==
The first major demonstration against the Vietnam War was carried out by the organization Students for a Democratic Society (SDS), a march that included between 14,000 and 25,000 protesters in Washington, D.C., with participants carrying picket signs in front of the White House. Among the slogans noted by the press was "War on Poverty, Not People". President Johnson was out of town at the time. At the same time, a counter-protest of about 100 people took place across the street, and a group of students representing the University of Wisconsin presented National Security Advisor McGeorge Bundy with a petition of support for the war, signed by 6,000 faculty and students.


== April 18, 1965 (Sunday) ==
The Indian Army withdrew from the disputed Great Rann of Kutch area where it had clashed with the Pakistan Army, after military leaders concluded that the troops were at risk of being cut off from the rest of India if the Rann flooded during the rainy season. "Upon their withdrawal," an author would note later, "morale soared in Rawalpindi and slumped in New Delhi. It was one thing for the Indian army to be drubbed by the Chinese in the Himalayas, but quite another to receive a bloody nose from the Pakistanis."
Supporters of the former Crown Prince Muhammad al-Badr of Yemen seized control of the region around the Sarawat Mountains in the successful Wadi Humeidat military operation in conjunction with neighboring Saudi Arabia, in a setback for the Yemen Arab Republic in the ongoing North Yemen Civil War.
African-American contralto singer Marian Anderson gave her farewell performance, ending a fifty-city tour with a concert at Carnegie Hall.
Born: Steven Stayner, American kidnapping victim and the younger brother of serial killer Cary Stayner; in Merced, California (died in a hit-and-run, 1989)
Died: Guillermo González Camarena, 48, Mexican inventor who pioneered the introduction of color television to Mexico, was killed in a car accident at Puebla, while returning from inspecting a television transmitter in Las Lajas, Veracruz


== April 19, 1965 (Monday) ==
What would become known as "Moore's Law", that computing power would double every two years, was first suggested by Gordon Moore in an article in Electronics magazine, titled "Cramming More Components onto Integrated Circuits". "The complexity for minimum component costs has increased at a rate of roughly a factor of two per year," he wrote. "Certainly over the short term this rate can be expected to continue, if not to increase. That means by 1975, the number of components per integrated circuit for minimum cost will be 65,000. I believe that such a large circuit can be built on a single wafer." Within three years, Moore would become co-founder of the transistor and microprocessor manufacturer Intel, and as transistors became smaller, the size of a transistor would decrease over 40 years from 0.5 inches (13 mm) by 0.25 inches (6.4 mm) to a size where they were "so small that millions of them could fit on the head of a pin."
Six American pilots, none of them astronauts, completed a 34-day experiment by NASA to study the effects of a month-long confinement during a space mission. The volunteers, officers drawn from the U.S. Navy and the U.S. Marines, "ate, worked, and slept in pressure suits" while inside a cylindrical chamber that was pressurized with an atmosphere of pure oxygen rather than normal air, and ate dehydrated food. One important discovery made from the test, which took place within the Philadelphia Navy Yard, was that the floor was covered with dust from dead skin cells because the men had been unable to bathe, which would be dangerous in a weightless environment. By the time of the launch of the first space station missions, provisions would be made to allow bathing.
New York City AM radio station WINS played its final pop music record, "Out in the Streets" by The Shangri-Las, then switched formats at 8:00 p.m., becoming an all-news radio station, setting a trend toward "talk radio" that would be picked up by other AM stations.
The 1965 Australian One and a Half Litre Championship motor race was held at Mount Panorama Circuit and won by Bib Stillwell.
The 1st Sunday Mirror Trophy motor race (formerly the Glover Trophy) was held at Goodwood Circuit, UK, and won by Jim Clark.
Adolph P. Hugo's home-built Hu-Go Craft made its first flight.
Born: Suge Knight (Marion Hugh Knight, Jr.), American rap record producer and co-founder and former CEO of Death Row Records; in Compton, California


== April 20, 1965 (Tuesday) ==
At a meeting of American military and political leaders in Honolulu, U.S. Ambassador to South Vietnam Maxwell D. Taylor successfully proposed that the U.S. adopt what he called the "enclave strategy" in its conduct of the Vietnam War. Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara and Assistant Secretary John McNaughton, CIA analyst William Bundy, U.S. Army General William C. Westmoreland, U.S. Navy Admiral U. S. Grant Sharp Jr., and the Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman, General Earle G. Wheeler, concurred in the proposal, which was adopted by President Johnson. Taylor's idea was to limit U.S. ground operations to within a 50-mile (80 km) radius of important areas in important coastal areas, and to conduct counterinsurgency operations with the South Vietnamese Army in the surrounding territory. The strategy would prove unsuccessful, leading to Taylor's resignation and a switch to a "search and destroy" operation in June.
The first legislative elections took place in the 15 Cook Islands, a semi-independent dependency of New Zealand, and were won by the Cook Islands Party (CIP), led by Albert Henry. Since Henry was ineligible for elective office because he had not resided on the islands for at least three years, his sister, Marguerite Story, would serve as the nation's acting premier until the CIP could amend the constitution.
King Hassan II of Morocco announced reforms that included the redistribution of government-owned land to farmers, and the creation of the "Common Fund for Agrarian Reform"; some land grants would be made in 1969 and 1970, but the reforms would prove to be modest.


== April 21, 1965 (Wednesday) ==
Habib Bourguiba, the President of Tunisia, outraged the other leaders within the Arab League after he proposed that the Arab nations should give recognition to Israel, albeit within the boundaries that had been proposed in the 1947 United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine. Borguiba's proposal was based on his position that Israel would never agree to the borders that the UN had voted on in Resolution 181, and that "If Israel refuses to apply the UN decisions, the legality of the UN will be on our side, which will strengthen our position in approaching a solution by force," but the strategy was viewed by the other Arab states as a betrayal of the Palestinian people.
The songwriting team of Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice was created when musician Webber, attending Oxford University, received a letter from lyricist Rice, that said, "I've been told you're looking for a 'with it' writer of lyrics for your songs... I wonder if you consider it worth your while meeting me." The two would team up on numerous rock musicals, starting with the unsuccessful The Likes of Us, followed by the hits Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat, Jesus Christ Superstar, and Evita.
The 1964 New York World's Fair in Flushing Meadows, New York, reopened for its second six-month season. The fair had operated from April 22 to October 19, 1964, then closed for six months, before reopening for 1965. It would close permanently on October 17, 1965.
The second round of municipal elections was held in France. The Communist party made gains, and began co-operating with other parties of the parliamentary left.
Parliamentary elections were held within those parts of Sudan that were not disrupted by the civil war in Southern Sudan.
Born: Fiona Kelleghan, American academic and critic specializing in science fiction and fantasy; in West Palm Beach, Florida
Died:
Paul Jung, 64, billed as "The King of Clown Alley" by the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, was found beaten to death in Room 1211 at the Hotel Forrest in New York City, near the circus venue at Madison Square Garden. On June 5, police would arrest a man and woman and charge them with robbery and murder. Marian De Barry would later testify against her boyfriend, Allen Jones, in return for reduced charges. Jones would be convicted of first-degree murder and sentenced to life imprisonment.
Sir Edward Victor Appleton, 72, English physicist and 1947 Nobel Prize laureate known for his work proving the existence of Earth's ionosphere
Pedro Albizu Campos, 73, advocate for Puerto Rican independence from the United States


== April 22, 1965 (Thursday) ==
U.S. Defense Secretary Robert S. McNamara told reporters that he would not rule out the use of nuclear weapons in the Vietnam War, during a press conference given under the condition that the reporters not attribute his remarks to him, nor quote him verbatim. Tom Wicker of The New York Times took notes and paraphrased the statement, in which McNamara said, "We are not following a strategy that recognizes any sanctuary or any weapons restriction. But we would use nuclear weapons only after fully applying non-nuclear arsenal. In other words, if 100 planes couldn't take out a target... we would try 200 planes, and so on. But 'inhibitions' on using nuclear weapons are not overwhelming." Wicker's report in the Sunday Times noted that "High officials" in the Johnson administration "emphasize that it is 'inconceivable' that nuclear weapons would be used in the present circumstances of the war. They do not rule out the possibility that circumstances might arise in which nuclear weapons have to be used." Nikolai T. Fedorenko, the Soviet Ambassador to the United Nations, sharply criticized McNamara and the U.S. in a speech the day after the report, commenting, "See the statement made today by Mr. McNamara... The United States is not averse to utilizing — this time perhaps as tactical weapons— nuclear warheads against the people of an Asian country as they have done once before, covering themselves with indelible shame for centuries to come. Mr. McNamara clearly reserved the right to unleash nuclear war in Viet Nam."
NASA's "Abort Panel" met to review abort criteria for Gemini 4, and decided that rules followed by Gemini 3 would suffice.
The Transavia PL-12 Airtruk, a new Australian aircraft, made its maiden flight.


== April 23, 1965 (Friday) ==

The Soviet Union launched its first communications satellite, Molniya 1, which relayed the signal to show "a documentary film of the life of Pacific fishermen", for about three hours. The Moscow reporter for The New York Times noted the next day that the telecast began at 9:00 in the morning Moscow time (4:00 in the afternoon in Vladivostok) and that, since television programming was normally not shown until the afternoon, "virtually no home television viewer" in Moscow had a set turned on to see the first broadcast. The satellite was put into an elliptical polar orbit, reaching its apogee of 24,000 miles (39,000 km) above Earth twice a day, over Soviet territory and over North America; 16 more of the Molniya series would be launched into polar orbit over the next six years, until the implementation of the Molniya II series in 1971.
Lockheed delivered its first C-141A Starlifter cargo aircraft after nearly two years of testing and certification. The first of the massive cargo planes was deployed at Travis Air Force Base in California for the 44th Air Transport Squadron of the U.S. Air Force Military Airlift Command.
Born: Leni Robredo, Vice President of the Philippines from 2016 to 2022; in Naga, Camarines Sur
Died: George Adamski, 74, bestselling American author of Flying Saucers Have Landed and Flying Saucers Farewell


== April 24, 1965 (Saturday) ==
The Dominican Civil War began when Colonel Francisco Caamaño Deñó and Manuel Ramon Montes Arache led more than 1,000 supporters of deposed Dominican Republic President Juan Bosch, in a mutiny against the right-wing junta led by Donald Reid Cabral. General Marco Rivera Cuesta, the Army Chief of Staff and Caamano's commander, was seized by the rebels, along with key military installations. Jose Franco Pena Gomez, the civilian leader of the Dominican Revolutionary Party (the PRD) called for a popular uprising, and thousands of people surged into the streets of Santo Domingo. General Elias Wessin y Wessin would say later that he had warned President Reid for three weeks of a conspiracy within the Dominican Army "but he did not pay any attention to me". Although he was aware that a coup was imminent, the U.S. Ambassador, William Tapley Bennett, Jr., had left the country the day before, and "other members of the embassy were either off on assignment or vacation".
A group of 100,000 Armenians gathered in the Armenian SSR capital of Erevan, after the Soviet government had given a permit for official commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the 1915 Armenian genocide. What started as a peaceful gathering in the Armenian capital's Lenin Square quickly turned into a protest for recovery of Armenian lands from neighboring Turkey, and independence from the Soviet Union, giving the team of Leonid Brezhnev and Alexei Kosygin their first test of managing the various nationalities. When the protests threatened to become a riot, the city's firemen were ordered to break out fire hoses and drive the demonstrators away, and militia volunteers then moved in to clear the streets, but the Soviet Army was ordered by Moscow not to intervene.
Two children were killed, and three others seriously injured, at a shopping center in Taylor, Michigan when a carnival ride collapsed and threw them to the ground. Sharon Hawks and her brother Grant Hawks had been among the kids who climbed aboard the "Flying Comet", a spinning ride using centrifugal force to rotate ride vehicles at a height of 10 feet (3.0 m) above the ground.
The Pennine Way, a 267-mile (430 km) long walking trail along the Pennine hills, was officially opened, as the first National Trail in the United Kingdom. Tom Stephenson, a reporter for the Daily Herald, had suggested the walkway in 1935 after being inspired by the Appalachian Trail in the United States, and was present for the dedication.
The bodies of Portuguese opposition politician Humberto Delgado and his secretary Arajaryr Moreira de Campos were found in a forest near Villanueva del Fresno, Spain. Both had been kidnapped and killed on February 12.
President Sukarno announced the nationalization of all foreign companies in Indonesia.
Died: Owney Madden, 73, British-born American mobster, boxing promoter, and operator of the Cotton Club nightclub in Harlem


== April 25, 1965 (Sunday) ==
Dominican Republic President Cabral and the other two members of his junta resigned after they were arrested at the National Palace by the Constitutionalists, who set up a provisional government headed by Dr. José Rafael Molina Ureña, pending the return of Juan Bosch from exile in Puerto Rico.

Sixteen-year-old Michael Andrew Clark killed three people and wounded 11 others by shooting at cars from a hilltop along Highway 101 just south of Orcutt, California. Clark killed himself as police rushed the hilltop.
The Boston Celtics beat the Los Angeles Lakers, 129 to 96, to win Game 5 of the 1965 NBA Finals and clinched their seventh National Basketball Association championship.
A week after the defeat of the YAR army by royalist forces, Ahmad Muhammad Numan replaced Hassan al-Amri as Prime Minister of the Yemen Arab Republic.
The 1965 World Table Tennis Championships concluded at Hala Tivoli, Ljubljana, SR Slovenia, SFR Yugoslavia.
Born: John Paul Henson, American puppeteer and son of Muppets creator Jim Henson; in Saugerties, New York (d. 2014)


== April 26, 1965 (Monday) ==
Manchester United clinched England's soccer football championship, breaking a standings tie with Leeds United with a better goal difference. Leeds United had a record of 26–8–7 (60 points) going into its final game, while Manchester United was at 25–9–6 (59 points) with two games left. Leeds was held to a 3–3 tie in a must-win game with Birmingham, however, while Manchester beat Arsenal, 3–1, giving both teams 26 wins and nine ties and 61 points. However, Manchester had 51 more goals in its favor than against it (88 vs. 37) while the goal difference for Leeds was only 31 (83 vs. 52), eliminating it from the title.
Thousands of anti-war protesters attacked the U.S. embassies in Cambodia and Japan.
The first complete performance of American composer Charles Ives' Symphony No. 4, conducted by Leopold Stokowski with the American Symphony Orchestra at Carnegie Hall in New York City, was presented 11 years after the composer's death and around 40 years since he last worked on it.
The Brazilian television station Rede Globo began broadcasting.
Born: Kevin James (stage name for Kevin George Knipfing), American comedian best known as the star of the television comedy The King of Queens and in film for Paul Blart: Mall Cop; in Mineola, New York


== April 27, 1965 (Tuesday) ==
The Ryan XV-5 Vertifan, a prototype vertical take-off jet aircraft, crashed on its test flight in front of 500 U.S. Army and U.S. Marine Corps generals and U.S. Navy admirals, accompanied by members of the press. Test pilot Lou Everett lifted the jet from Edwards Air Force Base, and was returning for a landing when the plane failed while switching from normal horizontal flight to a straight descent. At an altitude of 800 feet (240 m), Everett was on the fifth of eight steps in the conversion process when he radioed "I've got to get out!" As the observers watched from 2 miles (3.2 km) away, the Vertifan jet plunged to the ground and exploded. Everett was able to eject while less than 300 feet (91 m) from the ground, but his parachute failed to open and he was killed on impact.
The Indonesia–Malaysia Confrontation began on the island of Borneo, where Malaysia and Indonesia had territory, as the Indonesian Army crossed the border into the Malaysian state of Sarawak and attacked the British Army Parachute Regiment, based at the border village of Plaman Mapu. Company Sergeant Major John Williams of the 2nd Battalion would win the DCM for gallantry for his role in what was known as the Battle of Plaman Mapu. Williams, who would later be a Lieutenant-Colonel, lost an eye in the battle and gained the nickname "Patch".
After three days, a coup attempt to restore Juan Bosch as President of the Dominican Republic was thwarted by a counterattack by military forces loyal to President Donald Reid Cabral. President Molina was forced from office only two days after he had been installed by the pro-Bosch rebels, and was replaced by Colonel Pedro Bartolome Benoit of the Dominican Air Force.
By voice vote, the United States Senate voted to approve an emergency appropriation of $2.2 billion to bail out government agencies that had already exhausted $17.5 billion allotted to them. What made the vote unusual was that by the time that the "brief and apathetic debate" ended, only seven of the 100 U.S. Senators remained present to vote.
Born: Anna Chancellor, English actress; in Richmond, London
Died: Edward R. Murrow, 57, pioneering American broadcast journalist, and later the director of the United States Information Agency, died from lung cancer


== April 28, 1965 (Wednesday) ==
The U.S. began a military occupation of the Dominican Republic. Forces loyal to the deposed military-imposed government staged a countercoup, supported by U.S. troops sent by President Lyndon B. Johnson, ostensibly to protect U.S. citizens, but primarily to prevent "another Cuba", the Communist takeover of a second nation in Latin America. The 6th U.S. Marine Expeditionary Unit, with 400 Marines under the command of Colonel G.W.E. Daughtry, came ashore from the USS Boxer, and began a mission to evacuate 1,300 American citizens who were caught in the area where fighting was taking place. José Rafael Molina Ureña, installed by the military as the nation's Acting President, was removed from his post, and would be replaced three days later by Pedro Bartolomé Benoit. Helicopters brought 150 U.S. nationals to the Boxer, while two U.S. Navy transports evacuated 640 people, most of them Americans. Eventually, there would be 23,000 U.S. troops in place, the last of whom would be removed in 1966; the event marked an end to the "Good Neighbor policy" that had been in place between the United States and Latin America after more than 30 years without an American invasion of a Western Hemisphere nation.
Lindsey Nelson, the radio broadcaster for the New York Mets, became the first and only person to call a baseball game from directly over the field, and the only person to broadcast from the ceiling of a domed stadium. At the Houston Astrodome for the Mets' game against the Astros, Nelson agreed to be hoisted in a gondola to a point 208 feet (63 m) above second base, and was afraid to stand up until the 7th inning, after initially getting game reports by walkie-talkie from his producer. When Nelson did stand up, he realized that it was impossible to tell the players apart and that "You couldn't tell a line drive from a pop fly." The Mets lost, 12–9, and Nelson declined to repeat the stunt.
In a meeting with his military advisers in the People's Republic of China, Chairman Mao Zedong ordered the Central Military Commission to prepare for a landing of U.S. (or U.S.-sponsored) paratroopers within the Guangxi and Yunnan Provinces that bordered North Vietnam, warning that "In all interior regions, we should build caves in mountains. If no mountain is around, hills should be created to construct defense works. We should be on guard against enemy paratroops deep inside our country and prevent the enemy from marching unstopped into China."
President Johnson met with FBI Director J. Edgar Hoover and noted that, according to U.S. intelligence reports, American protests against the Vietnam War were part of a strategy of China, North Vietnam, and the American members of the "New Left"; with the goal that "intensified antiwar agitation in the United States would eventually create a traumatic domestic crisis leading to a complete breakdown in law and order" and that "U.S. troops would have to be withdrawn from Vietnam in order to restore domestic tranquility."
The U.S. House of Representatives voted unanimously (358–0) to approve its version of the Clean Water Act, which was different from the U.S. Senate version that had passed 68–8.
William Raborn succeeded John A. McCone as director of the Central Intelligence Agency after being confirmed by voice vote in the U.S. Senate.


== April 29, 1965 (Thursday) ==
Shortly after 8:00 p.m., Australia's Prime Minister Robert Menzies confirmed to Parliament in Canberra that he was sending the 1st Battalion of the Royal Australian Regiment to fight in the Vietnam War, supposedly at the request of the Premier of South Vietnam. Journalists had broken the news the day before. Prime Minister Menzies had decided to substantially increase its number of troops in South Vietnam, supposedly at the request of the Saigon government. It would later be revealed that Menzies had, at the behest of the U.S., asked the South Vietnamese to formally make the request. The day before, after the news of the Menzies government's plans had been published to the press, Menzies cabled the Australian Embassy in Saigon to stress the urgent need for South Vietnam to actually send a request, and during Thursday, Ambassador H. D. Anderson and his staff had to speak to the Vietnamese Premier, Phan Huy Quát, to ask him to invite Australia to enter the war. The cablegram from Premier Quát was not received by Menzies until 5:36 p.m., two and a half hours before Menzies was scheduled to speak to Parliament.
A 6.7 magnitude earthquake killed seven people in the northwestern U.S. and caused about US$12.5 million in damage in the area around Olympia, Washington. The quake struck at 8:29 a.m. and of the seven fatalities, four were women who died of heart attacks, and three were men who were killed by falling debris.


== April 30, 1965 (Friday) ==
At 2:16 in the morning local time, the 3rd Brigade of the U.S. Army's 82nd Airborne Division invaded the Dominican Republic to intervene in the ongoing Dominican Civil War. The group, first of 1,700 troops, landed at the San Isidro Air Base about 15 miles (24 km) east of the capital, Santo Domingo, on orders of U.S. President Johnson on the pretext of protecting American citizens from a rebellion against the Dominican government.
Clifford R. Benware, Jr. of Malone, New York, a 19-year-old private first class in the United States Marines, became the first U.S. serviceman to die in combat during the invasion of the Dominican Republic, after moving out from the Ambassador Hotel in Santo Domingo into the surrounding streets. By coincidence, the tiny New York village of less than 12,000 turned out to be the home of the sister-in-law of Francisco Caamaño, the rebel leader, and the home of one of the American families waiting to be evacuated by the U.S. Marines.
Robert C. Ruark published his last newspaper column, after having penned almost 4,000 separate installments over 20 years, distributed by the United Feature Syndicate to American newspapers. Ruark, whose column was usually referred to only by his name, was dying of cirrhosis of the liver. He died two months later, on July 1, two months after his farewell column. "Quite frankly," he wrote, "after 30 years in the newspaper business, I suddenly realize that I am nearly 50 and am weary of deadlines... My feet hurt. My fingers hurt. My brain is still sharp, I trust. But I am less and less willing to punish it on a daily schedule... Until the next dispatch floats back in a bottle, my deepest thanks to you all for being so kind and tolerant of a typewriter which seems determined not to write this last, sad piece."
The FBI discontinued the wiretapping of Martin Luther King Jr.'s home telephone after almost a year and a half of eavesdropping on his conversations. Listening devices had been installed on November 8, 1963, and remained until he moved to a new home in Atlanta.
I. W. Abel was declared winner of the contentious United Steelworkers of America election that had concluded on February 9. The final count showed 308,910 votes for Abel, and 298,768 for incumbent David J. McDonald, whose term would expire on June 1.
Born: Adrian Pasdar, Iranian-American TV actor and film director; in Pittsfield, Massachusetts


== References ==

Marco González, Marco Gonzalez, or Marco Gonzales may refer to:

Marco Antonio González Valdez (born 1972), Mexican politician
Marco Gonzales (born 1992), American baseball player
Marco Gonzalez, Mayan archaeological site
Marco González (born 1986), Chilean former soccer player


== See also ==
Marcos González (disambiguation)

"Loyalty" is a song by American rapper Birdman, released by Universal Republic Records Cash Money Records on June  26, 2010 as a non-album single. It features guest appearances from Cash Money signees Lil Wayne and Tyga, and production from Kane Beatz. Its accompanying music video was directed by David Rousseau. 


== Background ==
"Loyalty" was recorded for Birdman's fourth album Priceless (2010), but it did not appear on the tracklist and is considered a "leftover".


== Music video ==
The official music video for "Loyalty" was released to MTV on June 16, 2010. The video was shot before Lil Wayne went to jail on a gun charge. The video was shot in front of a green screen and includes cameos from Drake, Mack Maine, Lil Chuckee, and Short Dawg all wearing diapers. The video features backdrops of Tyga's hometown Compton, Birdman's and Lil Wayne's hometown of New Orleans and their adopted town Miami.


== Remix ==
A remix was released by Birdman featuring Cash Money artists Tyga, Brisco, Mack Maine, Bow Wow, Lil Twist, and Cory Gunz.


== Track listing ==
iTunes single digital download
"Loyalty" (featuring Lil Wayne & Tyga) - 3:57
iTunes Loyalty EP digital download
"Loyalty" (Birdman featuring Lil Wayne & Tyga) - 3:57
"Pop That" (Lil Wayne featuring Birdman) - 3:16
"Loyalty" (Music Video)


== Charts ==


== References ==

Candidates for the Bloc Québécois stood for office in all 78 of Quebec's electoral districts during the 2019 Canadian federal election. 32 candidates won their seat, an increase from 10 in the 2015 election, and gave Yves-François Blanchet's party the third most seats in the new House of Commons.


== Candidate statistics ==


== Quebec - 78 seats ==


=== Eastern Quebec ===


=== Côte-Nord and Saguenay ===


=== Quebec City ===


=== Central Quebec ===


=== Eastern Townships ===


=== Montérégie ===


=== Eastern Montreal ===


=== Western Montreal ===


=== Northern Montreal and Laval ===


=== Laurentides, Outaouais and Northern Quebec ===


== See also ==
Results of the 2019 Canadian federal election
Results of the 2019 Canadian federal election by riding


== References ==


== External links ==
Bloc Québécois website

Bristol is a borough in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, United States. It is located 23 miles (37 km) northeast of Center City in Philadelphia opposite Burlington, New Jersey, on the Delaware River.
Bristol was settled in 1681 and first incorporated in 1720. After 1834, it became very important to the development of the American Industrial Revolution as the terminus city of the Delaware Canal, providing greater Philadelphia with the day's high quality anthracite coal from the Lehigh Canal via Easton. The canal and a short trip on the Delaware River also gave the town access to the mineral resources available in Connecticut, New Jersey, and New York via of the Morris Canal, the Delaware and Hudson Canal, and the Delaware and Raritan Canal, respectively, and connected the community to those markets and trade from New York City.
Although its charter was revised in 1905, the original charter remains in effect, making it the third-oldest borough in Pennsylvania after Chester and Germantown. As of the 2020 census, Bristol had a population of 9,861. Its current mayor is Joseph A. Saxton. It is served by SEPTA's Trenton Line.
Bristol is located 70.9 miles (114.1 km) southeast of Allentown and 22.4 miles (36.0 km) northeast of Philadelphia.


== History ==

Samuel Clift founded the Borough of Bristol, having received a land grant from Edmund Andros, who was then governor of New York. The grant became effective on March 14, 1681 (new style) or March 4, 1681 (old style) at the same time as William Penn's Charter from Charles II became effective. Clift was required by the grant to maintain ferry service across the Delaware River to Burlington, New Jersey, and to run a public house or inn. The inn later became known as the George II.
Bristol Borough was settled in 1681, and named after Bristol, England. It was originally used as a port and dock. It is rich in history, with many historic and restored houses along the streets of Radcliffe and Mill. In 1697, the Pennsylvania Provincial Council ordered that a town be laid out in the location. A petition was submitted by Joseph Bond, Anthony Burton, John Hall and William Wharton to the Council for incorporation, and was granted in 1702.
Until 1725, Bristol Borough served as county seat of Bucks County.
From its earliest days, it was a center of textile mills, foundries, milling, and miscellaneous manufacturing. With the building of the 60 miles (96.6 km) long, forty feet wide, and five feet deep  Delaware Canal, it became a transshipment gateway connecting the anthracite barges floating down the Lehigh Canal's end terminal at Easton to Philadelphia. Bristol Borough was chosen to terminate the Delaware Canal because it already had regular shipping connections to other parts of Philadelphia and Delaware River ports by both the era's typical animal powered barges and coastal/inland shipping vessels. Its docks also had regular ferry services to New Jersey and other points east from as early as 1681 until 1931. Developed by John Fitch, Bristol was the home of the first steamboat ferry service taking up to 30 passengers bound for Philadelphia and other ports on the Delaware
In 1740, William Davis established a shipyard in Bristol, building small vessels such as schooners and sloops. One such vessel was the Morning Glory, noted as the fastest sailing craft on the Delaware. In 1800, John Reed acquired the shipyard.
The expense of digging the canal was justifiable as the banks of the Delaware southerly from Easton were less suitable, there was insufficient real estate for extensive additional docks, so the legislature figured the Delaware Canal avoided the need to transship barge loads of coal to boats, drastically saving costs and time.  Since Bristol Borough's long established docks were accessible to the Delaware River, the town also became the Delaware Canal's southern (main distribution) terminal end.  Consequently, later, the Pennsylvania Railroad would also connect to the anthracite flowing through the canals, to the riverine barge and boat traffic, and to provide rail depots servicing the manufacturies.  Even before the canal, Bristol Borough was located along a main land route to New York City, Trenton, and New England so with construction of the canal and railroads, it became a major center of transportation and an even more attractive location for industry.
By the 1880s, Bristol Borough was home to many factories, including companies manufacturing wall paper and carpet. In World War I, the Bristol Borough docks had sufficient space for a shipyard to construct twelve building slips for the construction of merchant vessels. In 1917 Averell Harriman organized the Bristol Borough shipyards founding the Merchant Shipbuilding Corporation (later called Merchant-Sterling) and given the U-boat menace, would land a contract to build 40 identical cargo ships for the war. The residential area that developed around the shipyards was soon named Harriman, Pennsylvania, and most of the housing built therein is still in use today. In 1922 Harriman was annexed by Bristol Borough. Most of the shipping was finished too late to enter World War I, but some of the shipyard's output was used post-war in relief and troop support missions. The majority of the contracts were canceled in 1919, and the ship yards rapidly became excess real estate. Between the two world wars, the eighty-acres of the shipyard were let out to various concerns, including one area converted to building amphibious planes—the flying boats technology which was the heart and soul of long distance air travel until the technological advances theretofore the middle years of World War II. During World War II the old shipyards were used to build those and other airplanes, but most of the manufacturing in WW-II was not directly related to the war.
In 1961, Bristol Borough gained national attention when the song "Bristol Stomp", by The Dovells hit #2 on the Billboard pop chart. The song remains a local favorite, and it is often played at ceremonies, parades, and sporting events. The Merchant Shipbuilding site returned to the news in the 1990s when the Bucks County Redevelopment Authority using state and federal funding targeted the area as a priority for urban redevelopment.
Given its riverfront location, the old shipbuilding site was ranked highest in priority, and on 20 October 2000 various legislators and officials held a press conference at the former shipyard heralding the construction of the residential development already under way, known as the 'Riverfront North Project', and publicizing how derelict portions of the slipways were being removed. The project also established a park with four monuments celebrating the town's past in the redevelopment.
Today the preserved elements of the shipyard, and other buildings once important in Bristol Borough's past service are enshrined and celebrated in the Bristol Historic District, Bristol Industrial Historic District, and tourism sites celebrating the town's history and rich ethnic diversity. Various annual festivals, in particular keep a multi-ethnic cultural identity alive and well.
Historic sites in the town including the Delaware Division of the Pennsylvania Canal, Dorrance Mansion, General Stores and Mold Loft Building-Harriman Yard of the Merchant Shipbuilding Corporation, Grundy Mill Complex, Harriman Historic District, Jefferson Avenue School and Jefferson Land Association Historic District are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.  The Delaware Division of the Pennsylvania Canal is also designated as a National Historic Landmark District.
In March 2023, there was a chemical spill in the Delaware River, caused by an equipment failure at the Trinseo chemical plant in Bristol.


== Demographics ==

As of a 2014 estimate, the borough was 69.2% Non-Hispanic White, 16.4% Black or African American, 1.5% Native American and Alaskan Native, 0.2% Asian, 3.5% Some other race, and 3.4% were Two or more races. 15.0% of the population were of Hispanic or Latino ancestry 
As of the 2010 census, the borough was 81.1 White, 9.5% Black or African American, 0.2% Native American, 0.6% Asian, and 3.5% were two or more races. 14.2% of the population were of Hispanic or Latino ancestry. There are 661 veterans living in Bristol Borough. There were 9,726 people, 4,237 households, and 3,926 families residing in the borough. The population density was 6,016.5 inhabitants per square mile (2,323.0/km2). There were 4,207 housing units at an average density of 2,550.8 per square mile (984.9/km2).
There were 4,004 households, out of which 28.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 39.7% were married couples living together, 15.9% had a female householder with no husband present, and 39.0% were non-families. 33.3% of all households were made up of individuals, and 14.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.48 and the average family size was 3.20. In the borough the population was spread out, with 24.5% under the age of 18, 8.8% from 18 to 24, 30.5% from 25 to 44, 20.5% from 45 to 64, and 15.7% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 36 years. For every 100 females, there were 90.6 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 88.3 males.
The median income for a household in the borough in 2016 was $42,962. Males had a median income of $28,653 versus $19,278 for females. About 8.2% of families and 16% of the population were below the poverty line.


== Geography ==
Bristol Borough is located at 40°6′12″N 74°51′5″W (40.103382, -74.851448). According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the borough has a total area of 1.9 square miles (4.9 km2), of which 1.6 square miles (4.1 km2) is land and 0.2 square miles (0.52 km2)  (10.81%) is water.


== Education ==
The Bristol Borough School District comprises two public schools: Warren Snyder-John Girotti Elementary School (K-6) and Bristol High School (7-12).
Other schooling opportunities in Bristol are offered through the Roman Catholic parish school of St. Mark Church (K-8), located in the borough. Conwell-Egan Roman Catholic School in Fairless Hills, Pennsylvania provides private/parochial schooling for children in grades 9-12. Higher education in Bristol Borough includes Pennco Tech.


== Climate ==
According to the Köppen climate classification system, Bristol has a humid subtropical climate (Cfa). Cfa climates are characterized by all months having an average mean temperature > 32.0 °F (0.0 °C), at least four months with an average mean temperature ≥ 50.0 °F (10.0 °C), at least one month with an average mean temperature ≥ 71.6 °F (22.0 °C) and no significant precipitation difference between seasons. Although most summer days are slightly humid in Bristol, episodes of heat and high humidity can occur with heat index values > 110 °F (43 °C). Since 1981, the highest air temperature was 103.1 °F (39.5 °C) on 07/06/2010, and the highest daily average mean dew point was 75.5 °F (24.2 °C) on 08/13/2016. The average wettest month is July which corresponds with the annual peak in thunderstorm activity. Since 1981, the wettest calendar day was 6.15 inches (156 mm) on 08/27/2011.
During the winter months, the average annual extreme minimum air temperature is 5.1 °F (−14.9 °C). Since 1981, the coldest air temperature was −5.8 °F (−21.0 °C) on 01/22/1984. Episodes of extreme cold and wind can occur with wind chill values < −5 °F (−21 °C). The average annual snowfall (Nov-Apr) is between 24 inches (61 cm) and 30 inches (76 cm). Ice storms and large snowstorms depositing ≥ 12 inches (30 cm) occur once every few years, particularly during nor’easters from December through February.


== Transportation ==

As of 2017 there were 27.31 miles (43.95 km) of public roads in Bristol, of which 6.17 miles (9.93 km) were maintained by the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation (PennDOT) and 21.14 miles (34.02 km) were maintained by the borough.
U.S. Route 13 passes southwest-northeast through Bristol on Bristol Pike, heading southwest toward Bensalem and Philadelphia and northeast toward Levittown and Trenton, New Jersey. US 13 connects to the Pennsylvania Turnpike (Interstate 95) at the Delaware Valley interchange north of Bristol, just west of the Delaware River–Turnpike Toll Bridge over the Delaware River that connects the Pennsylvania Turnpike to the New Jersey Turnpike. Pennsylvania Route 413 passes north-south along the western edge of Bristol, heading north on Veterans Highway toward Langhorne and south to the Burlington-Bristol Bridge over the Delaware River that leads to Burlington, New Jersey. PA 413 connects to Interstate 95 at an interchange north of Bristol.
The Bristol station is served by SEPTA Regional Rail's Trenton Line that provides service between Center City Philadelphia and the Trenton Transit Center. Trains along Amtrak's Northeast Corridor pass through Bristol but do not stop; the nearest Amtrak station is in Trenton. SEPTA provides Suburban Bus service to Bristol along Route 128, which runs between the Neshaminy Mall and the Oxford Valley Mall, and Route 129, which runs between the Frankford and Knights Bus Loop in Northeast Philadelphia and the Oxford Valley Mall. TMA Bucks operates the Bristol Rushbus, which offers peak-hour shuttles between a connection with the Trenton Line train at the Bristol station and certain businesses in Bristol.


== Ecology ==
According to the A. W. Kuchler, among U.S. potential natural vegetation types, Bristol has a dominant vegetation type of Appalachian Oak (104) with a dominant vegetation form of Eastern Hardwood Forest (25). The plant hardiness zone is 7b with an average annual extreme minimum air temperature of 5.1 °F (−14.9 °C). The spring bloom typically begins by April 7 and fall color usually peaks by November 4.


== Notable people ==

Poul Anderson, science fiction writer
Daniel W. Bursch, astronaut
John F. Cordisco, former State Representative and Bucks County Democratic Committee Chairman
Tony DiStefano, former professional motocross racer
John Thompson Dorrance, chemist and inventor of condensed soup
Ileen Getz, actress, 3rd Rock from the Sun
Joseph R. Grundy, textile manufacturer and U.S. Senator
William Edward Hanford, chemist
Lauren Holly, actress
Eddie James, convicted murderer executed in Florida
Jeff Manto, professional baseball player
Joe McEwing, professional baseball player
Joseph McIlvaine, U.S. Senator
David Miscavige, leader of the Church of Scientology
Mike Missanelli, Philadelphia sports personality
William Rodman, U.S. Congressman
Ryan Samsel, arrested for his participation in the January 6 United States Capitol attack
Charlie Saxton, actor
Will Thomas, novelist
David Todd, record promoter and producer
Joanna Fox Waddill, American Civil War nurse known as the Florence Nightingale of the Confederacy
Todd Weiner, professional football player


== See also ==
Burlington-Bristol Bridge


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Harold Mitchener & Carol Houser-Mitchener, Images of America : Bristol; Arcadia Publishing, 2000; 128 pages; ISBN 978-0-7385-0427-8


== External links ==

Official website
Bristol Cultural and Historical Foundation, Inc

Joshua Barash is an American photographer based in Los Angeles. He has lived in Toronto, Canada and New York. Barash has an extensive resume in both commercial/editorial and fine art photography. Barash began his professional career with the Gannett Company at their New York Newspaper group.  While there, he became a member of the National Press Photographers Association (NPPA) and had to opportunity to shoot at many New York Knicks, New York Yankees and New York Mets games.
After several years at Gannett, he became a freelance photographer. His images have appeared in many publications including Los Angeles Times Magazine, New York Post, Washington Post, Music Connection, Airways Magazine, Landscape and many online publications.
Josh Barash has worked for MTV, Qantas, AMPAS, BASF, Tourism Australia, Nickelodeon, Evian, Comedy Central, Nokia and others.
His photo was used in the book "I Still Call Australia Home - The Qantas Story 1920–2005" (Focus Publishing) by Malcolm Knox.
Joshua's fine art work has achieved national acclaim and have appeared in galleries throughout the United States.
"Joshua Barash is a contemporary photographer that uses several types of media to make unique, interesting images. What makes his work so distinct is his use of light projections of other photographs on the bodies of women... One of his most striking images that speaks to his use of design is Under Riverside Drive II."
Mist on Causeway - "...this composition handles the projected process in a compositionally effective way, with a resulting image that offers an innovative and striking integration of image and surface."
Under Riverside Drive II - "The human body provides an ideal surface for a highly complex and contrasting image, resulting in a strong directional focus and resolution."


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Joshua Barash at IMDb

Linda Margaret Haines (née Bower; born 1 August 1944 in Harrogate) is an English and South African statistician. Originally a chemist, she is known for her research in the design of experiments and in the application of those designs in clinical trials. She is a professor emeritus of statistical sciences at the University of Cape Town, the past president of the South African Statistical Association, and an elected member of the International Statistical Institute.
Linda Bower read chemistry in Newnham College, Cambridge and earned a double first in natural science at Cambridge in 1965.
She earned a master's degree in 1967 at University College London, under the supervision of M. H. B. Stiddard, winning UCL's Ramsay Medal for the top postgraduate student in chemistry in her year.
Moving to South Africa, she completed her Ph.D. in 1970, in inorganic chemistry, at the University of South Africa, and married chemist Raymond J. Haines, while also working at the National Chemical Research Laboratories in Pretoria. Her dissertation, A Synthetic Study of Some Tertiary Phosphine and Phosphite Complexes of Rhodium and Iridium, was jointly supervised by Eric Singleton and W. J. A. Steyn.
She returned to England as a researcher at the University of Sussex in 1972, and worked as a lecturer in chemistry at the University of Cape Town in 1975, but then began studying computer science and statistics at the University of South Africa while raising her children.
In 1978, Haines became a lecturer in statistics and biometry at the University of Natal.
She served as president of the South African Statistical Association for the 1999 term.
In 2005 she moved as a full professor to the University of Cape Town. She retired from her professorship in 2009, and became an emeritus professor in 2013.


== References ==

Pystira ephippigera is a species of jumping spider in the family Salticidae. It is mostly found in Indonesia, specifically on the island of Sumatra.
The specific epithet "ephippigera" is derived from Greek, meaning "saddle-bearing", referring to the distinctive markings on the spider's opisthosoma.


== Taxonomy ==
The species was originally described by Eugène Simon in 1885 as Hadrosoma ephippigerum based on specimens collected from Sumatra by M. Weyers. Tamerlan Thorell transferred it to the genus Bootes as B. ephippiger in 1892. Simon subsequently moved the species to the genus Pystira in 1901, establishing the currently accepted name Pystira ephippigera.
The species has undergone recent taxonomic changes. In 2012 and 2015, Zhang and Maddison transferred it to the genus Omoedus as O. ephippigerus. However, this placement was rejected by Jerzy Prószyński in 2017, who returned the species to Pystira. Pystira ephippigera serves as the type species of the genus Pystira.


== Distribution ==
P. ephippigera was described from Sumatra, Indonesia. The type specimen was collected from the island and is presumed to be deposited at the Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle in Paris, France, where most of Simon's type material is housed. The species has also been observed in Thailand, Cambodia and peninsular Malaysia.


== Description ==

Based on Simon's original description, the female has a cephalothorax that is thick, convex, and blackish, appearing almost hairless with a shiny, somewhat leathery texture and very sparsely hairy. The opisthosoma is short and depressed, with the front bluntly margined and the back strongly pointed, whitish-opaque in color. In the middle, there is a very broad transverse saddle-shaped marking (which occupies more than half the length of the dorsum), followed by a transverse abbreviated stripe much narrower than the blackish ornament above, and below blackish on both sides with testaceous areas.
The legs and pedipalps, chelicerae, and sternum are black, with all coxae obscurely brownish. The legs are pale yellow, short and robust, with the first and second legs having two terminal spines on the tibiae except the blunt ones, and the first and second metatarsi have 2-2 short spines below.


== References ==

The Symphony No. 12, Op. 390, subtitled La Rurale, is a work for orchestra by French composer Darius Milhaud. The piece was written in 1961 for the dedication of the concert hall at the University of California, Davis, a campus historically focused on agricultural studies.
Milhaud's Twelfth Symphony is a four-movement work with a total running time of about 16 minutes. The titles of the movements, as descriptive of their character as of tempo, are as follows:

This symphony is published by Heugel & Cie. Recordings of this symphony include a 1995 all-digital recording by Alun Francis and the Radio-Sinfonieorchester Basel, part of a boxed set of Milhaud's Symphonies No. 1–12 on CPO.


== References ==


== External links ==
Video - Darius Milhaud - Symphony No. 12 (1 of 2) (07:09).
Video - Darius Milhaud - Symphony No. 12 (2 of 2) (09:08).

Annetta Schwartz was one of the first distinguished female performers in Yiddish theater.
She and her sister Margaretta shared prima donna duties in Abraham Goldfaden's troupe in Romania beginning in 1877. Jacob Adler described her as "respectable" with classical training as singers. He also writes that when they performed in Odessa (now in Ukraine) in the late 1870s, they had Paris dresses of a quality that had never been seen in that city.
She eventually married actor and impresario Moishe Finkel, and came with him to New York City in 1886. She eventually divorced him and went back to Europe. Lulla Rosenfeld writes that we know little about her outside of the "bitter reminiscences" of rival prima donna Bessie Thomashefsky, wife of Boris Thomashefsky.


== References ==


== Sources ==
Adler, Jacob P. (1999). A Life on the Stage: A Memoir. Translated by Rosenfeld, Lulla. Knopf. ISBN 978-0-679-41351-6.
Quint, Alyssa (12 March 2021). The Rise of the Modern Yiddish Theater. Indiana University Press. ISBN 978-0-253-03864-7.

The 1989–90 BYU Cougars men's basketball team represented Brigham Young University as a member of the Western Athletic Conference during the 1989–90 basketball season. Led by first-year head coach Roger Reid, the Cougars compiled a record of 21–9 (11–5 WAC) to finish second in the WAC regular season standings. The team played their home games at the Marriott Center in Provo, Utah, and finished with an unblemished record at home (16–0). The Cougars received an at-large bid to the NCAA tournament, making their first appearance under Reid. In the NCAA tournament, BYU lost a tough opening round game to Clemson, 49–47.


== Roster ==


== Schedule and results ==


== References ==

Lumphini Park (Thai: สวนลุมพินี, RTGS: Suan Lumphini, pronounced [sǔan lūm.pʰī.nīː]), also Lumpini or Lumpinee, is a 360 rai (57.6-hectare (142-acre)) park in Bangkok, Thailand. The park offers rare open public space, trees and playgrounds in the Thai capital and contains an artificial lake where visitors can rent boats. Paths around the park totalling approximately 2.5 km in length are a popular area for morning and evening joggers. Officially, cycling is only permitted during the day between the times of 10:00 am to 03:00 pm. There is a smoking ban throughout the park. Dogs are not allowed, except certified guide dogs only. Lumphini Park is regarded as the first public park in Bangkok and Thailand. The park is the provenance of Lumpinee Boxing Stadium.
Witthayu, Rama IV and Ratchadamri act as the eastern, southern and western border of Lumphini Park respectively. Witthayu intersection, an intersection where Witthayu and Rama IV roads meet, is served by Lumphini station on the Blue Line. Sala Daeng, an intersection where Ratchadamri, Rama IV and Si Lom roads meet, is served by Si Lom station on the Blue Line and Sala Daeng station on the BTS Skytrain's Silom Line. Other places surrounding Sala Daeng intersection are Dusit Central Park (where the old Dusit Thani Hotel once stood), King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, and Silom Edge.


== History ==

The 360 rai (about 57 hectares) plot of land, formerly known as Thung Sala Daeng ('Sala Daeng Field', now Sala Daeng Intersection), was the private property of King Rama VI. In 1925, the king donated the land to the nation to be used as a fair ground. The Siamrat Phiphitthaphan Trade Fair was held here to promote Thai commodities and industrial productions among Thais and foreigners. After the fair, the king had a will to turn the land into a public park which was given the name Lumphini. It was named after Lumbini, the birthplace of the Buddha in Nepal for prosperity, although its location at that time was considered the outskirts of the city. The construction was not finished yet, the king died first, but the construction continues until complete. In World War II the park was a Japanese Army camp. At the entrance in front of the park, the royal monument of the king was built for his memorial, inside the park, there are a clock tower of Chinese styled structure built in 1925, a public library which was the first one in the country, a public aquarium, children's play ground, sporting ground, and large swimming pool. It is a public park full of varieties of plants and suitable for recreational.
Today, it lies in the heart of the main business district and is in the Lumphini sub-district, on the north side of Rama IV Road, between Ratchadamri Road and Witthayu Road. 
It is also linked to Benjakitti Park in Khlong Toei District via the 1.3 km-long Green Bridge, an elevated pedestrian and bicycle path that begins at the Sarasin Junction, where Witthayu Road meets Sarasin Road.
In August 2025, the Bangkok Metropolitan Administration announced that the Lumpini Park Hawker Centre would open along Ratchadamri Road in early 2026.


== Lumphini Park places ==
Lumphini Park is a multi-purpose park. Many activities are provided for citizens and tourists. The park is a green area. There are trees, flowers, lakes and animals.

King Rama VI statue (Thai: พระบรมรูปรัชกาลที่6) - The statue of King Vajiravudh (Rama VI) was built in 1942 to commemorate the construction of the Lumphini Park.
Bird watching - Lumphini Park is a rich source of natural food and has large trees so it has become home to more than 30 species of birds. Bird watching instruction is available at Lumphini Park every year.
Smiling Sun Ground (also Larn Tawan Yim Thai: ลานตะวันยิ้ม) - Smiling Sun Ground is a place for activities for disabled people. It is full of resources and special parking lots for the disabled as well as playgrounds for children.
Bangkok Elder Citizens Club (Thai: สโมสรพลเมืองอาวุโสแห่งเมืองกรุงเทพฯ) - Bangkok Elder Citizens Club is a place for elders to communicate, relax, exercise, and train. It is open from 08:00–18:00 daily. Dancing courses are available every Sunday-Saturday.
Home of Hope (Thai: ศูนย์สร้างโอกาสเด็กสวนลุมพินี) - A refuge for homeless children. They provide information, advice, and education to help homeless children. It is open 10:00–19:00 daily.
BMA Apprentice School (Thai: ศูนย์ฝึกอาชีพกรุงเทพมหานคร) - Offers training in various jobs including computer, cooking, tailor, and facial make-up.
Lumphini Park Library (Thai: ห้องสมุดประชาชนสวนลุมพินี) - Lumphini Park Library provides books and videos. Open from 08:00–20:00, Tuesday–Sunday.
Lumphini Youth Center (Thai: ศูนย์เยาวชนลุมพินี) - Offers sports activities and sports equipment for members. Sports activities including soccer, swimming, basketball, and dancing. On Monday to Friday it is open from 18:00–20:00. On weekends it is open 10:00–18:00.
Sri Thai Derm Food Center (Thai: ศูนย์อาหารศรีไทยเดิม)- Open 04:30–10:00 daily.
Lumphini Lake - Swan paddle boats can be rented at a lake for 40 baht per 30 minutes. In the 1960s, a floating restaurant called Kinnari Nava stood in the middle of the lake. Also known internationally as Peninsula, it was a distinctive structure featuring a bow atop a topless kinnari figure (a half-woman, half-bird). The restaurant was later closed following a fire.
Buddhist Dharma Activities - Buddhist Dharma activities with Buddhist monks are held the last Sunday of every month from 07:00–09:00.
Music Festival - A Western music and Thai music festival in the park is held Sundays, January to April, from 17:30–20:00.


== Venues and events ==
The park has Bangkok's first public library and dance hall. During winter, the Palm Garden of Lumphini Park becomes the site for the annual Concert in the Park featuring classical music by the Bangkok Symphony Orchestra and other bands.


== Political rallies ==
Lumphini Park has been used as a rally ground for right-wing political gatherings. In 2006 the People's Alliance for Democracy (PAD) protested in the park against Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra. In 2013-2014 the park became one of the main protest sites of the People's Democratic Reform Committee (PDRC) against Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra.


== Wildlife ==
The park is home to around 400 Asian water monitors. In 2016 a program to captured and relocate a number of the lizards was carried out in an attempt to control their numbers.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Lumpini Park Information
"Thailand", The National Geographic Traveler, 2001, p. 97


== External links ==
Lumphini Park at the Thai Department of the Environment

Glenesk Folk Museum is a museum located in the Glen Esk valley, in Tarfside, Angus, Scotland. It is about 9 miles (14 km) north of the village of Edzell. It is housed in a former shooting lodge, known as 'The Retreat', which used to belong to the Earls of Dalhousie. The museum contains artefacts and documents related to the history of the surrounding area. 


== History ==
The Museum was established in 1955 by Greta Michie, a local schoolteacher who was inspired by folk museums in Scandinavia. The building used for the museum, known as 'the Retreat', had been constructed as a retirement cottage in the 1840s by Captain J.E. Wemyss. It was later expanded and used as a shooting lodge, and later a summer house by the Earls of Dalhousie, before falling into disuse. Lord and Lady Dalhousie assisted with the establishment of the museum on this site.
The museum was refurbished and expanded in 2007.


== Collections ==
The museum's artefacts are arranged thematically into rooms, including spaces covering music and costume. There are reconstructions of rooms from the 1850s, including a children's room. The museum also has a document archive for genealogical research, including Census records from 1841 to 1891 and a partial record of births, marriages and deaths in the Glen and the parishes of Edzell and Lethnot. This room has computers.
The museum has a small collection of musical instruments, highlights of which include a trapezoidal Savart-style violin that was played for many years on the streets of Aberdeen by an itinerant musician, and a coach horn known to have been used locally as late as the 1930s on one of the last horse-drawn stagecoaches operating in the United Kingdom.


== Facilities and events ==
Since its foundation, the Retreat has sold locally produced goods, and this continues in the gift shop. There is also a cafe offering light refreshments. The Retreat also has conference facilities, a function room, a nature trail and a children's play area. Regular craft workshops are run on-site, along with other events which have included music recitals and storytelling.


== See also ==
List of music museums


== References ==

Abel E. Leavenworth (September 3, 1828 – June 3, 1901) was an American educator and soldier.


== Childhood and early career ==
Abel Edgar Leavenworth was born 3 September 1828 in Charlotte, Vermont, son of Abel and Anna (Hickok) Leavenworth. He obtained his early education at the district schools of Charlotte and Madrid, New York, and continued his studies at Hinesburgh Academy. He entered the University of Vermont, from which he graduated in 1856. He was one of the founders of the Delta Psi fraternity at the university.
He began his career as a teacher in 1846, taught district schools and eventually became the principal of the Bolivar Academy, Bolivar, Missouri, and the academies of Hinesburgh and Brattleboro.


== Civil War service ==
After the outbreak of the American Civil War, Leavenworth resigned his school position to enlist as a private in Company K, Ninth Regiment Vermont Volunteers. He was promoted through the ranks of sergeant and first lieutenant to that of captain. He was made assistant inspector general of Isaac J. Wistar’s brigade of the U. S. forces on York Peninsula, of the Second division of the Eighteenth army corps, and of the provisional brigade at Bermuda Hundred, Virginia. He also served as assistant adjutant general of the last-named command, later of the Second brigade, Third division, Twenty-fourth army corps, and led the skirmish line into the city of Richmond on 3 April 1865. He was appointed assistant provost marshal of that city, and subsequently assistant adjutant general of the district of Appomattox. He was mustered out of the service at Richmond on 13 June 1865, having received highly commendatory letters from the generals on whose staff he had served.
He was a delegate-at-large from Vermont for the Grand Army of the Republic at the twenty-fifth national encampment at Detroit in August 1891.


== Later career ==
When the war ended, he returned to Vermont and again took charge of Hinesburgh Academy, which he left in 1868. In 1870 Leavenworth secured the incorporation and endowment of Beeman Academy at New Haven, the leadership of which he resigned in 1874 to become principal of the State Normal School at Randolph.
He left the Normal School at Randolph in 1879 and spent two years in institute work and the collection of a large cabinet of fossils and minerals. In 1881 he purchased the school building and equipment of the Rutland County grammar school, and was appointed principal of the State Normal School at Castleton (now a campus of Vermont State University). He retired in 1897.


== Personal life ==
On 14 September 1853, Leavenworth married Mary Evelina, daughter of Samuel and Sally (Hubbard) Griggs, of Cazenovia, New York. Their children were: Anna Maria, Francis Abel, Samuel Edgar, Clarence Greenman, William Stowell, Emily Reynolds, and Philip Reynolds. Mary Evelina (Griggs) Leavenworth died 30 July 1877.


== References ==

Kurumgram is an old  village located in Nalhati I community development block in the Rampurhat subdivision of Birbhum district in West Bengal, a state of India.


== Geography ==
The total geographical area of Kurumgram village is 4.04 km2 and it is the 15th largest village by area in the sub district. Kurumgram is located at an altitude is 40 meters above sea level. The time zone is Indian Standard Time (GMT+5:30).
Kurumgram is located 60 km north of the district headquarters of Suri, Birbhum. It is also 10 km from Nalhati town, 13 km from Rampurhat, and 225 km from the state capital Kolkata. The other cities nearby are Sainthia (45 km), Baharampur (60 km) and Bolpur (80 km). The Tarapith Tara Maa Temple is near to Kurumgram (22 km). The historic Lalbagh and Murshidabad are also not very far from Kurumgram (65 km).
The nearby villages of Kurumgram are Kanupara, Sardha, Mehegram, Tejhati, Bujung, Dharampur, Barla, Raghunathpur, Gayta, Belun, Sadashibpur, Kanaipur etc.


=== Administrative & postal address ===
Gram Panchayat- Kurumgram Gram Panchayat.
Police Station- Nalhati.
Block Office  - Nalhati I (community development block).
Sub Divisional Office- Rampurhat subdivision.
Assembly constituency- Nalhati (Vidhan Sabha constituency).
Lok Sabha constituency- Birbhum (Lok Sabha constituency).
Post Office- Kurumgram.
PIN Code- 731242.
STD Code- 03465 (Nalhati)
District Headquarter- Suri, Birbhum.
Divisional Headquarter- Burdwan.


== Demographics ==
According to the 2011 Census of India, Kurumgram is a large village with a total of 932 families, with an average of 4 persons in every family. The village has a population of 3728, of which 1903 are males (51%) while 1825 are females (49%). There are 410 children of age 0-6, which make up 11% of the total population of the village; among them 52% are boys and 48% are girls. The population density of the village is 923 persons per km2. 24% of the total population in this village are General caste, 76% are Schedule caste.
Kurumgram has a higher literacy rate compared to the average for West Bengal(76.26%). In 2011, the literacy rate of Kurumgram was 77.73%. Male literacy stood at 83.44% while female literacy rate was 71.79%.
Out of the total population of the village, 1249 were engaged in work activities. Among them, 54% of the male population and 13% of the female population are working population. 78.38% of workers describe their work as Main Work (Employment or Earning more than 6 Months) while 21.62% were involved in Marginal activity providing livelihood for less than 6 months. Of 1249 workers engaged in Main Work, 104 were cultivators (owner or co-owner) while 517 were Agricultural labourers.

The local language is Bengali. The other languages also spoken in Kurumgram are English and Hindi.


== Government and politics ==
The main four political parties in Kurumgram are  All India Trinamool Congress (TMC), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Indian National Congress (INC) and Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPIM).


== Culture ==
Almost all Hindu festivals are celebrated. The Durga Puja, Kali Puja & Saraswati Puja are the three most celebrated festivals by the villagers.

Durga Puja is celebrated in the month of October–November. This is the biggest festival of the villagers. There are total 7 Durga Idols are worshiped during the four days of Puja in Kurumgram. Out of the 7 Pujas 4 of them are worshiped in Temple & 3 of them are worshiped in the Pandals. People from nearby villages get together and enjoy all the festivals.
As soon as the Durga Puja ends the villagers gets ready for the Kali Puja without taking any rest. The festival of India, the festival of lights "Diwali" is celebrated in the month of October/November after 21 days of Vijayadashami. Almost all the houses of Kurumgram are decorated with lights and lamps. Many Kali Idols are worshiped in Kurumgram. Among them there are four Puja Committees in Kurumgram who decorate their Pandals with various "themes". In that time many people from nearby villages come to Kurumgram to visit the "Theme Puja" pandals.
Saraswati Puja is Celebrated in the month of January/February. Saraswati is the Hindu Goddess of Knowledge. It is celebrated with a big village fair (Mela) which stays for 7 days. Many people from outside come to Kurumgram to visit and enjoy the fair (Mela) with family and friends by buying various things, and eating together in restaurants and with adventurous rides. Many cultural programmes are held then by the local Clubs like drama, singing, dance etc..
Beside that Raksha Kali Puja and Nabanna is also celebrated with much pomp and grandeur. Raksha Kali Puja is celebrated on first Saturday of April. Thousands of people gather there in Raksha Kali Temple of Kurumgram on that day. Nabanna is usually celebrated in the month of November/December.
Besides the festivals the villagers celebrates the Independence Day (15 August), Republic Day (26 January) and the birthdays of the great National Heroes, Literary Persons, Scientist and Spiritual Heroes with organising cultural programmes.


== History ==
The village was founded in the 16th century by Garur Mitra. Further development of the village was done by Arjun Mitra Majumdar, grandson of Garur Mitra. The name of the village is based on the word Kurma (Tortoise in Sanskrit), since the initial landscape of the village resembled the body of a tortoise.


== Transport ==
By Road Service- There are 7 private buses to connect the village with Rampurhat directly & among these buses 1 bus goes Suri. Nearest National Highway is NH-60 (Morgram to Panagarh via Nalhati, Rampurhat, Suri, Dubrajpur, Ilambazar) which goes through Tejhati village which is 5 km towards west from Kurumgram. Kurumgram is connected with NH-60 through Sardha-Kurumgram-Tejhati road (12 ft width) which is maintained by the Government of West Bengal. Beside buses there are many "Toto Rikshas" available from Tejhati to reach Kurumgram. There are buses available in every 10 minutes from Tejhati to Rampurhat and Nalhati in common week days.
Railway Service- The nearest railway station from Kurumgram is Swadinpur-SDLE (9.5 km). The other railway stations nearby are Nalhati Junction-NHT (10 km) and Rampurhat Junction railway station-RPH (14 km). RPH-Rampurhat Junction is one of major Railway stations of Howrah Division of Eastern Railway zone which is connected with Kolkata, South Bengal, South India, some parts of Middle and Western India, North India, North Bengal and the whole North-East India.
Airports- The nearest domestic airport is Kazi Nazrul Islam Airport in Durgapur (124 km) and the nearest international airport is Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose International Airport in Kolkata.


== Education ==
There are two Bengali-medium Government primary schools (class I-IV) in Kurumgram - Kurumgram Boys' Primary School and Kurumgram Girls' Primary School. There is a private missionary nursery (primary) English medium school- Sree Sree Ramkrishna Sishu Vidyapith. There is a co-educational Government Bengali-medium Higher Secondary School, Mitrabhum High School, the oldest High School in this area, set up in 1921. Students from nearby villages and nearby towns come here to study.
There are no colleges in Kurumgram village. The nearest colleges are Rampurhat College and Hiralal Bhakat College (Nalhati), and Sofia Girls' College.


== See also ==
Nalhati I
Rampurhat


== References ==

http://birbhum.org/
http://www.birbhum.gov.in/


== External links ==
"Mitrabhum High School" at ICBSE.com. Retrieved 24 January 2018.

Quercus mexicana is a species of oak. It is widespread in eastern Mexico from Chiapas to Tamaulipas.


== Description ==
It is a deciduous tree growing up to 15 metres (49 feet) tall with gray bark. The leaves are thick and leathery, up to 12 centimetres (4+3⁄4 inches) long, oblong or lance-shaped with no teeth or lobes.


== Etymology ==
Mexicana means 'from Mexico'.


== References ==


== External links ==
photo of herbarium specimen collected in Nuevo León in 1991

Durastante Tommaso Francesco Emiliano Natalucci (17 September 1687 – 22 May 1772) was an Italian historian who specialized in history of Trevi, in Umbria.
Born at Picicche di Trevi into one of the prominent families of the area, he was tonsured at age 7, upon the death of an uncle of his who had been priest of SS. Crocifisso: he received the benefice of that church from Pope Innocent XII. He studied with the Jesuits in nearby Spoleto from 1704 to 1709, when he moved to Rome to study law. His father had died in 1705, so when his mother fell ill around 1710, he returned to Trevi to take care of his family's affairs, in which task he succeeded well enough that he was entrusted similar work on behalf of other local families. Over the next ten or twelve years he accompanied the bishop of Spoleto on his pastoral rounds, possibly serving as a reliable secretary versed in the affairs of Trevi whenever the bishop needed to visit the northern area of his large diocese. This experience deepened his interest in the history of his hometown and its dependencies. He started to consign the historical information he collected to a series of notebooks, and gradually formed them into what would become his Historia Universale dello stato temporale ed eclesiastico (sic) di Trevi. In 1726 he was elected attorney for the comune of Trevi, and later became magistrate with the town council.
He was, however, suddenly afflicted with total blindness in 1747, which put an end to his efforts; in that same year, having been a lifelong bachelor, he decided to marry a noblewoman from Spoleto, who bore him three children, Giuseppe, Maria, and another who lived only a few days. His work, though well advanced, remained unpublished, in the state it had reached in 1745, until 1985, when thanks to Giuseppe Natalucci, a descendant, the sole manuscript was made available to another Trevi historian, Carlo Zenobi, who produced a careful edition.
Natalucci's history of Trevi, though still essentially a draft, exhaustively documents the history of the Trevi area based on many hundreds of meticulously noted sources. It focuses primarily on land parcels and the families and church entities that controlled them, and provides a minute picture of rural Umbria in the Middle Ages through the first half of the 18th century. It is of particular value in that many of his sources — cartularies, cadastral documents, etc. — no longer exist, and Natalucci showed himself a true scholar in scrupulously sourcing his facts.


== References ==
The original version of this article was adapted from Bill Thayer's Gazetteer of Umbria, by permission.


== External links ==
Pro Trevi page
Thayer's Gazetteer
Il Fondo Archivistico Giuseppe Sasso Natalucci page

Lorne Kidd Smith (1880 – c. 1966) was a Canadian painter best known for his scenes from the War of 1812. He lived and worked in Ontario for most of his life.
Smith was born in Niagara Falls, Ontario in 1880. He studied art in Boston in his early 20s and worked for the Forbes Lithographing Company. He relocated to Toronto in 1909, and worked for Stone Limited and Brigdens Limited, as a staff artist for R.G. McLean and Grip Limited, for the art department at General Motors (1917), and as an artist for Photo Engravers Limited (1937). He was a member of the Canadian Society of Graphic Art. He designed a poster for the First World War-era Victory Loan campaign, for which he won a prize. He became an artist for Schaeffer-Ross, eventually becoming vice-president before his death.
Smith's best-known paintings are "The Meeting of Brock and Tecumseh" and "Laura Secord Warning Colonel Fitzgibbon, June 1813", both of which are now in the collection of Library and Archives Canada. Both are oil paintings depicting scenes of the Canadian/British forces in the War of 1812. They were likely commissioned by Dr. Arthur Doughty, the Dominion archivist, in the early 20th century. "Laura Secord Warning Colonel Fitzgibbon, June 1813" depicts the legend of Laura Secord warning the British army of impending American attack; it was probably painted around 1920. "The Meeting of Brock and Tecumseh" reflected the alliance between British forces under General Isaac Brock and First Nations groups under Tecumseh; it was painted at some point prior to 1931.


== References ==

Albert III (died 25 November 1199), also known as Albert the Rich, was Count of Habsburg and an early ancestor of the royal House of Habsburg.
He was the son of Count Werner II of Habsburg, whom he succeeded in 1167. His large inheritance included estates in Switzerland, Alsace and Baden. Albert married Ida, daughter of Count Rudolph of Pfullendorf and Elisabeth, daughter of Welf VI. Like his father, he was a loyal supporter of the Imperial House of Hohenstaufen.
He was the father of Count Rudolph II of Habsburg.


== References ==

Woodson is a census-designated place (CDP) in Pulaski County, Arkansas, United States. As of the 2020 census, Woodson had a population of 346. It is part of the Little Rock–North Little Rock–Conway Metropolitan Statistical Area. Woodson and its accompanying Woodson Lake and Wood Hollow are the namesake for Ed Wood Sr., a prominent plantation owner,  trader, and businessman at the turn of the 20th century. Woodson is adjacent to the Wood Plantation, the largest of the plantations own by Ed Wood Sr.


== History ==

Ed Wood, Sr. founded a settlement in central Arkansas after migrating from Alabama with his mother circa 1880. What is now called Woodson was known for much of the area's early history as "Wood Hollow" in recognition of Ed Wood Sr. and his 1890 purchase of the first black-owned plantation in Arkansas.
In the period following Radical Reconstruction, Ed Wood, Sr. began hosting gathering of the Prince Hall Freemasonry, of which he was a founding member of the Arkansas Lodge and held rank of highest degree. It was in these meetings at the Wood Plantation that he became an associated with Scipio Africanus Jones, John E. Bush, Chester W. Keatts, and John Hamilton McConico. From these meetings, a vibrant African-American Establishment matured. Wood was able to sustain the Prince Hall Lodge, but his contemporaries spun off to form the Mosaic Templars of America.


== Geography ==
According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of 4.4 square miles (11 km2), of which 4.3 square miles (11 km2) is land and 0.1 square miles (0.26 km2) (2.29%) is water.


== Demographics ==


=== Racial and ethnic composition ===

As of the 2020 United States census, there were 346 people, 141 households, and 82 families residing in the CDP.


=== 2000 census ===
As of the census of 2000, there were 445 people, 177 households, and 113 families residing in the CDP.  The population density was 97.6 inhabitants per square mile (37.7/km2).  There were 198 housing units at an average density of 43.4 per square mile (16.8/km2).  The racial makeup of the CDP was 24.94% White, 73.93% Black or African American, and 1.12% from two or more races.
There were 177 households, out of which 27.7% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 42.4% were married couples living together, 19.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 35.6% were non-families. 33.3% of all households were made up of individuals, and 10.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.  The average household size was 2.51 and the average family size was 3.26.
In the CDP, the population was spread out, with 23.8% under the age of 18, 7.4% from 18 to 24, 25.2% from 25 to 44, 29.2% from 45 to 64, and 14.4% who were 65 years of age or older.  The median age was 41 years. For every 100 females, there were 87.0 males.  For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 90.4 males.
The median income for a household in the CDP was $28,750, and the median income for a family was $35,781. Males had a median income of $22,143 versus $30,893 for females. The per capita income for the CDP was $12,854.  About 13.5% of families and 15.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 12.1% of those under age 18 and none of those age 65 or over.


== Education ==
It is within the Pulaski County Special School District.
It is zoned to Daisy Bates Elementary School, Fuller Middle School, and Wilbur D. Mills University Studies High School.


== References ==

James Nicholas Murray Wells OBE (born March 1983) is an English entrepreneur and was founder, owner and executive chairman of Prescription Eyewear Limited (trading as Glasses Direct), London, which he started whilst at university in 2004 and sold to Cipio Partners in 2013. At the time of the sale, the business had grown to employ more than 150 people, with sales of £29.9m in the year ending April 2013 and was selling to 50 overseas markets. He is currently Industry Head of Retail at Google UK.


== Early life ==
Murray Wells attended Harrow School before attending the University of the West of England to study English, with the intention of studying Law subsequently.
His father is an investment analyst and his maternal grandfather, Wendell Clough, helped bring Ford and Chrysler to the UK.


== Glasses Direct ==
While studying for his final university examinations, Murray Wells discovered that he needed to start wearing spectacles. Surprised by the high price quoted by an optician, he contacted first manufacturers and then individual workers until a technician told him that a pair of glasses selling for £150 costs only £7 to make. Inspired by this, he created a website selling spectacles directly to the public, initially funding his business using the remains of his student loan, he joined the small existing group of online spectacles retailers in the UK's traditionally highly controlled, arguably oligopolist spectacles market. (See the article UK Opticians (retailers) for a discussion of industry structure.)
In its first year of business, Murray Wells' new company Glasses Direct sold 22,000 pairs of glasses, and had an annual turnover of £1m.  In 2009 Glasses Direct had 70 employees and sold a pair of glasses every three minutes. When the business was sold, revenue was expected to break £35m in sales in 2014.


== Industry pressure ==
Several established chains of conventional bricks and mortar opticians attempted to close down Glasses Direct with legal and regulatory threats.  Murray-Wells published their lawyers' letters on his website, where they remained until the embarrassed lawyers used copyright to force their removal. Murray Wells then replaced the letters with a note explaining why they were no longer there. Murray-Wells also sent out men dressed as sheep to Newcastle city centre to hand leaflets explaining how much cheaper his products were than those of high street opticians, suggesting that spectacle wearers were being "fleeced". Attempts at legal action have to date failed, with most established high street opticians now selling spectacles online.


== Awards ==
Murray Wells won the 2005 Shell LiveWIRE award for entrepreneurship, the 2005 Startup Award, the 2005 Wales and West Country Entrepreneur of the Year Award, the 2005 Natwest Business of the Year and Entrepreneur of the Year Award, and the 2006 Isambard Kingdom Brunel Young Entrepreneur Award.
In 2009, he was awarded the Queen's Award for Achievement in Enterprise Promotion, becoming the youngest person to receive the award.
Murray Wells was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire, (OBE), in the 2015 Queen's Birthday Honours list for services to business.


== Promotion of entrepreneurship ==
In addition to his involvement with the taper relief campaign, Murray Wells has been a keynote speaker at the Federation of Small Businesses annual conference  and has taken part in events aimed at promoting entrepreneurship to school children. More recently he has performed as a mentor in entrepreneurship schemes run by Channel 4 and The Times, as well as investing his own funds in start-ups.


== Political campaigning ==
Murray Wells has taken part in the campaign by UK entrepreneurs against the changing of UK taxation laws to end taper relief, arguing that this change will damage the prospects of future entrepreneurs and start-up companies. He took part in organizing a Flash Crowd event as part of this campaign.
He was one of 68 business leaders to publicly pledge their support to Conservative proposals to reverse part of Labours planned National Insurance rise in the run up to the 2010 General Election   This became a key issue in the campaign.
He was also a co-founder of StartUp Britain, which was announced in the 2010 budget by Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne, and launched by David Cameron as an initiative conceived at 10 Downing Street, the aim of which is to inspire entrepreneurs and influence the government's business agenda.
Murray Wells has served as an advisor on business and enterprise to both the UK's then Labour Party government and the then Conservative Party opposition. As a member of the New Enterprise Council, he was an advisor for the then Shadow Chancellor, George Osborne.


== References ==

Lip Sync Battle Shorties is an American reality television program that first aired on Nickelodeon as a special hosted by Sarah Hyland on December 11, 2016, and later returned as a regular television program on October 15, 2017. The program is presented by Nick Cannon and JoJo Siwa.


== Production and broadcast ==
On February 22, 2016, it was announced that Spike and Nickelodeon were developing Lip Sync Battle Jr. with Casey Patterson Entertainment and Matador, as a spinoff of Spike's Lip Sync Battle. On November 17, 2016, it was announced that Sarah Hyland would be hosting, and that an hour-long special would air on Nickelodeon on December 11, 2016, and on Spike on December 14, 2016.
On March 2, 2017, Nickelodeon announced that it had green-lit production on Lip Sync Battle Shorties with a 10-episode order. Production of the program was expected to begin sometime in 2017. On August 1, 2017, it was announced that Nick Cannon would be replacing Sarah Hyland as the host and that JoJo Siwa would be joining him as his sidekick. In the new format, it aired Halloween and holiday specials on Nickelodeon, in October and December 2017, respectively. The program will take its regular slot when new episodes resume on January 12, 2018.
On March 6, 2018, Nickelodeon renewed the program for a second season of 10 episodes.


== Episodes ==


=== Series overview ===


=== Special (2016) ===


=== Season 1 (2017–18) ===


=== Season 2 (2018–19) ===


== Ratings ==
Lip Sync Battle Shorties drew more than two million total viewers in Live+7 when it first premiered in December 2016. In addition, content from the special had managed to get over 20 million views on Nickelodeon's YouTube channel.


== See also ==
Lip Sync Battle


== References ==


== External links ==
Lip Sync Battle Shorties at IMDb

Ashish Kumar Bhutani (born 21 September 1967) is an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the 1992 Assam-Meghalaya cadre. He is currently serving as the Secretary of the Ministry of Co-operation, Government of India.


== Early life and education ==
Bhutani was born on 21 September 1967. He holds a degree in Medicine MBBS from King George's Medical University, Lucknow.


== Career ==
Bhutani is currently serving as Secretary of the Ministry of Co-operation, Government of India. Before this appointment, he was the CEO of the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), with the rank of Additional Secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare, Government of India.
He has also served in the Government of Assam as Additional Chief Secretary, in charge of the Departments of Agriculture and Transformation & Development and chairman of State Level Recruitment Commission for all Grade-III posts.


== References ==

The Museum of Maurice Dufresne (in French: Musée Maurice-Dufresne) is a technological history museum located in the mill at Marnay, near the Château of Azay-le-Rideau, France. It has acquired numerous important objects displayed in vast buildings containing some 25 rooms. The museum pieces are presented thematically: agricultural machines, silk and textile industries, musketry, hydraulic power, etc. 
Born in 1930, Maurice Dufresne began his training as a blacksmith at the age of fourteen and joined the "Compagnons du Devoir", an organization of journeymen -craftsmen, to begin a tour of France, working for twenty different employers. 
In 1958, he created his own company in Villeperdue in the region Indre-et-Loire. He started out in the salvage business and began saving things which he thought worthy of placing later in his museum, thereby avoiding the destruction of part of the French heritage.
Thirty years later, on 24 October 1992, the prefect, the notables of the region and the press inaugurated the Museum Maurice Dufresne in Marnay near Azay-le-Rideau, on the banks of the Indre river in an old mill on a site owned by  Geoffroy de l'Ile in 1026, which later became a paper factory in the time of Balzac.
The scrap dealer from Villeperdue, armed only with his enthusiasm, was able to create this amazing museum of collections of machines from a road roller to a hearse, from a copper sulfate sprayer to a Louis Blériot monoplane, and to present all of this in enjoyable surroundings.
His museum today presents more than 3,000 machines in warehouses covering 10,000 m2. It has already attracted 600,000 visitors and 23 guestbooks are filled with comments from around the world. 
In the last few years, Maurice Dufresne has continually travelled between Marnay and Villeperdue, where 27 people run the medium-sized salvage business.


== Objects in the collection ==
The following is a list of a few pieces from the largest collections presented in the halls of the museum that are open to the public.
Salle des gardiens: 
Furnished dwelling of the last caretakers from the Papeterie France 1939.
Salle Bassereau: 
Weaving machines from 1630 to 1950.
Salle Big Bull: 
Filtz tractor1919 - Big Bull tractor USA 1914 - Truck from Clintonville, Wis USA 1912.
Salle Laffly: 
Panhard Levassor car1922 - Laffly road-sweeper and waterer 1911 - Le Zèbre car 1902 - Mac Cormick swather USA 1888 - Buick car USA 1950.
Salle Titan: 
Steam powered fire engine GB 1850 - André Citroën tractor 1919 - Titan Tractor USA 1902 - Morgan car GB 1930 - Renault car type NN 1925.
Salle Marchand:
Marchand cognac still 1870 - Guyot high clearance tractor 1930.
Salle de la Révolution: 
Guillotine 1792 - Scalding vat 1896.
Salle Leyland: 
Piguet steam engine 1898 - Leyland double decker bus GB 1936.
Salle des lanternes: 
Coty perfume atomizer 1870 - Chapron tractor 1912 - Steam engine and cocoa bean threshing machine 1880.
Salle d'armes 1: 
More than four centuries of antique arms from around the world - Collection of wax heads unique in the world 1924.
Salle d'armes 2: 
More than four centuries of antique arms from around the world - Japanese Samurai's armour 17th century.
Salle Case: 
Steam tractor Case USA 1907 - Mac Cormick tractor USA 1936.
Salle Maronneau: 
School museum Maronneau 1856 - Steam engine 1878 - Renault convertible 1923 - Chenard and Walcker car 1926.
Salle George Irat: 
Car of George Irat 1939 - Hearse Austin Princess-Vanden Plas GB 1947.
Salle Grande Roue: 
Moline tractor with concrete wheels USA 1920 - Renault crawler tractor HO 1918 - Large paddle wheel 1976.
Salle des mécanismes: 
Mechanisms of the large paddle wheel 1876 - Scraper pulverizer 1877.
Salle Grand Bi: 
Velocipede GB 1900 - Motorcycle Benjamin F 1925 - Dulcion tricycle 1900.
Salle des vannes: 
Bronze wine filter 1850 - Portable copper sulfate sprayer 1880.
Salle Fiat: 
Bruneau napthtalene motor 1909 - Fiat tractor 1922 - Rustic gas motor-saw log splitter 1925.
Salle de la turbine: 
Fontaine turbine 1877.
Salle Blériot: 
Monoplane type XI Louis Blériot 1909 - Ardie side car Germany 1936 - Koppel locomotive Germany 1925.
Salle d'armes 3: 
More than two centuries of antique arms from around the world.
Salle des outils: 
A large variety of ordinary tools and craftsmen's tools.
Salle des charrues: 
A large variety of plows - Meteor linotype 5 USA 1889.
Salle Guillotine: 
Guillotine thresher 1934 - Peugeot electric car 1941 - Candy dishes 1900.


== External links ==

Official Web site

Pseudobiceros fulgor, also known the lightning worm, is a species of marine flatworm from the family Pseudocerotidae and belongs to the class Turbellaria. These flatworms are commonly found in the tropics of the Indo-Pacific region. They can be found in shallow coral reef environments.  
Pseudobiceros fulgor like all flatworms, are triploblastic, meaning 3 germ layers present during development. These organisms are also acoelomate, lacking a body cavity between their gut and body wall. Pseudobiceros fulgor are bilaterally symmetrical, this helps to aid in their movement and navigation in their environment. During embryonic development stages they undergo mostly spiral cleavage. This influences the organization of their cells during development.


== Habitat ==
Pseudobiceros fulgor are commonly found in the tropic and subtropical oceans of the world. They inhabit shallow coral reefs, internal areas and seagrass beds that can be shared with crustaceans and mollusks. A key feature that helps Pseudobiceros fulgor with survivability in their environment is the ability to regenerate its body when injured. They are drawn towards areas with moderate water flow and high nutrient availability.


== Feeding ==
Pseudobiceros fulgor are carnivorous and feed on small invertebrates. To do this they use a specialized structure called a proboscis. They have a protrusible pharynx which is a tube like structure that extends out of the mouth. It is lined with tiny teeth that allows for them to grab and break down food. It is an important adaptation and helps to aid in their survivability.


== Reproduction ==
Pseudobiceros fulgor are hermaphroditic, which means that the male and female both have their respected reproductive organ. Internal fertilization takes place when sperm and egg come together. The fertilized eggs develop into juvenile flatworms and mature as smaller version of the adult due to no larval stage.


== Movement ==

In order to move, Pseudobiceros fulgor use cilia which are hair like structures that cover the entirety of their body. The cilia which is a hair like structure beats back and forth in a wave like motion to propel the organisms forward. The flatworms can also use muscle contractions to traverse over the seafloor. The contractions are also useful in capturing prey and defending against predators.


== Sensory systems ==
Pseudobiceros fulgor has a simple yet effective sensory system that helps it navigate and respond to stimuli. Sensory cells are scattered throughout its body that help to detect things such as light in the water. The sensory cells are connected to the ganglia, which acts as a rudimentary brain. Pseudobiceros fulgor have chemoreceptors which are specialized to detect chemical stimuli in the water. Additionally mechanoreceptors aid in detecting changes to pressure and touch.


== Defining features ==
Coloration is a major defining feature for Pseudobiceros fulgor. The background color of orange brown and the longitudinal broken streaks of white are what deems them the lightning worm. They have pseudotentacles which appear as ear like structures. A short Pharynx with 4 folds on each side is what helps classify them from other Turbellaria.


== References ==

V. Periasamy is an Indian politician and a former Member of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly. He was elected to the assembly as an Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (Jayalalitha) candidate from the Anthiyur constituency in the 1989 election and as an Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam candidate in the 1991 election.


== Electoral performance ==


== References ==

antiVirus (Armenian: անտիՎիռուս) is an Armenian online show on YouTube, first aired on June 8, 2012. It is the first video blog in Armenia. It criticizes the negative phenomenons and the behavior of certain groups of the Armenian society they consider bad. Their goal is to "show the society what is the problem and how it can be solved". The show is hosted by Gor Hakobyan, directed by Hayk Barseghyan and promoted by Vahagn Tadevosyan, all three young man from Gyumri, Armenia's second largest city known for its humor.
The show has no traditional days of release. Every episode is uploaded to YouTube on random basis. It is also promoted in blognews.am and asekose.am, which are one of the most visited Armenian websites. As of December 16, 2012, their YouTube videos have a total of 1,181,790 views, unprecedented figure for a show in Armenia, a country of 3 million.
Soon this show aired on Kentron TV.


== Episodes ==


=== 2012 episodes ===


=== 2013 episodes ===


== Songs ==
GOR feat Sencho R.L.-Hip hop
GOR - "antiBiotik pro"
GOR - tonatsar jan tonatsar
HAMO B.I.G. feat GOR - "verjers"
GOR - Selfie


== References ==

The yips are a psychoneuromuscular impediment, a sudden and unexplained loss of ability to execute certain skills in experienced performers such as athletes. Symptoms of the yips are losing fine motor skills and/or proprioception, or being affected by psychological issues such as performance anxiety that impact the muscle memory and decision-making, leaving them unable to perform basic skills.
The exact cause of the yips is still not fully understood. A yips episode may last a short time before the abilities return or it can require longer term adjustments to technique before recovery occurs. In some cases, a player at the highest level does not recover at all, forcing them to abandon the sport altogether. Causes include but may not be limited to performance anxiety and neurological conditions.
There have been a plethora of treatment options tested to ameliorate the yips, including clinical sport psychology therapy, motor imagery, pre-performance routines, medication, botulinum toxin, acupuncture, and emotional freedom techniques. However, their possible effectiveness is primarily based on personal experience rather than well-founded research evidence. Early intervention with a thorough treatment plan is imperative for recovery of athletes with yips.


== Etymology ==
While the term is used for characters in L. Frank Baum's The Lost Princess of Oz  of 1917, yips is said to have been popularized in the 1920s by Tommy Armour—a Scottish-American professional golfer and later golf teacher—to explain the difficulties that led him to abandon tournament play. 


== Brain activity and the yips ==
A 2021 study using electroencephalography (EEG) recordings found that athletes with the yips showed increased brain activity in the alpha band when initiating movements, especially when increasing force output to match a target. In this particular study, increased brain activity in the alpha and beta bands for the treatment group after the movement compared to the control group, suggested that heightened brain activity might indicate problems with inhibitory systems or increased focus on the body part involved in the task. Further research must be conducted with a larger sample size, more diverse populations, and more than two EEG electrodes in order to confirm these theories.


== In golf ==
In golf, the yips is a medically well-documented movement disorder known to interfere in particular with putting. In describing the yips, golfers have used terms such as twitches, staggers, jitters and jerks. The yips affects between a quarter and a half of all mature golfers. Researchers at the Mayo Clinic found that 33% to 48% of all serious golfers have experienced the yips. Golfers who have played for more than 25 years appear most prone to the condition.
Although the exact cause of the yips has yet to be determined, one possibility is biochemical changes in the brain that accompany aging. Excessive use of the involved muscles and intense demands of coordination and concentration may exacerbate the problem. Giving up golf for a month sometimes helps. Focal dystonia has been mentioned as another possibility for the cause of yips.
Professional golfers seriously afflicted by the yips include Ernie Els, David Duval, Pádraig Harrington, Bernhard Langer, Ben Hogan, Harry Vardon, Sam Snead, Ian Baker-Finch and Keegan Bradley, who missed a four-foot putt in the final round of the 2013 HP Byron Nelson Championship due to the condition (although he may also have been suffering from strabismus). At the 2015 Waste Management Open, golf analyst Nick Faldo suggested that Tiger Woods could be suffering from the yips. Jay Yarow from Business Insider commented after the 2014 Open that Woods had both the putting yips and the driver yips.
Interventions seeking to treat the affliction have been few and far between. Some golfers have tried changing their putter or their grip or even switching hands. However, these strategies have provided only temporary relief.
They are also known as "freezing", "the jerks", "the staggers", "the waggles", and "whisky fingers".


== In tennis ==
In tennis, the yips most often affects the (second) serve, leading to multiple double faults. Several top players have been affected by the yips in recent years, most notably Alexander Zverev in 2019, and Aryna Sabalenka in the beginning of 2022. For example, Zverev served a record of 20 double faults in his 2019 Cincinnati Masters first round loss against Miomir Kecmanović, while Sabalenka served up 39 double faults in her two first round losses in the 2022 Adelaide 1 and Adelaide 2 tournaments. From 2005 to 2008, Guillermo Coria, a former world number 3, suffered from service yips.


== In cricket ==
In cricket, the yips applies mostly to bowlers. The affliction seems to involve bowlers having trouble releasing the ball at the end of their action. An example of this was Keith Medlycott, who having reached the England squad was forced to abandon the sport. Another player, Gavin Hamilton, having played a Test as an all-rounder, largely abandoned his right-arm medium pace bowling, following the yips. He did not make another Test appearance, but has enjoyed a One Day International career for Scotland, predominantly as a specialist batsman. Collins Obuya was one of the stars of Kenya's 2003 World Cup—he gained a contract with Warwickshire on the back of it—but after injury he encountered difficulty with his bowling action, later going through a phase of appearing as a specialist batsman in international matches. Other players to have experienced similar problems include Ian Folley of Lancashire, and the West Indies test cricketer Roger Harper.
England cricket team sports psychologist Mark Bawden suffered from the yips himself as a teenager. He completed a PhD on the topic and has published a paper on the yips in the Journal of Sports Sciences.


== In baseball ==
In baseball, the yips usually manifests itself as a sudden inability to throw the baseball accurately. They are more apparent in pitchers and catchers, players who touch the ball the most in the game, though position players have also been subject to the malady.
Pittsburgh Pirates pitcher Steve Blass is an example; from 1964 to 1972, he was a dominant pitcher and All-Star; however, beginning in 1973, he suddenly lost his command, issuing 84 walks in 88+2⁄3 innings pitched. He retired in 1974 due to continued loss of his pitching ability.
"Steve Blass disease" has been attributed to talented players—such as New York Yankees second baseman Chuck Knoblauch or Los Angeles Dodgers second baseman Steve Sax—who suddenly lost their ability to throw the ball accurately to the first baseman. Sax's problems began in his 3rd season in the majors, but he continued to play in the league and seemingly recovered by 1989, going on to finish his career in 1994.
New York Mets catcher Mackey Sasser could not throw the ball back to the pitcher without tapping his mitt several times—San Francisco Giants outfielder Brett Butler once stole third base during a Sasser yip. Sasser's problem became worse after a 1990 collision at home plate with Jim Presley of the Atlanta Braves, leading to a decrease in Sasser's playing time, and his release from the Seattle Mariners in 1994.
Mark Wohlers of the Atlanta Braves was called "the 1990s poster child for Steve Blass Syndrome." He recovered enough to return to pitching, but not to previous levels.
Rick Ankiel is perhaps the most famous instance of this condition in baseball, having lost his control as a pitcher during the 2000 National League Division Series. After several years of deteriorating performance coupled with injuries, he subsequently returned in 2007 as a productive outfielder, becoming known for his throws from the outfield to gun down runners attempting to advance extra bases.
Jon Lester is also said to have suffered the yips on his pickoff attempts to first base. He did not throw to first at all in 2014, and struggled to make accurate throws early in 2015. For the rest of his career, when required to field a hit ball, Lester would run most of the way to 1st base and underhand throw the ball and on longer throws would spike it into the turf to reduce the chances of throwing it past the bag. His team also attempted to compensate for the problem with their catchers throwing 'back picks' to first base as well as the regulation throws to second.
Pittsburgh Pirates minor league pitching prospect Hayden Hurst was so badly affected by the yips that he left baseball and went to the University of South Carolina to play football instead. On April 26, 2018, he was drafted in the first round of the 2018 NFL draft, 25th overall, by the Baltimore Ravens as a tight end.
ESPN featured a story about Luke Hagerty's comeback from the yips in 2019. He never played after being drafted #32 overall by the Chicago Cubs in the 2002 draft.


== In gymnastics ==
In artistic gymnastics, a version of the yips affecting twisting form is known as the "twisties". It refers to a sudden loss of proprioception; a gymnast's ability to maintain body control during aerial manoeuvres. Some gymnasts express a feeling of disorientation, unaware of where the ground is. This loss of air awareness increases the chance of a serious or critical injury if the gymnast forgets in the moment how to land the maneuver safely.
During the 2020 Olympic qualifications, American gymnast Simone Biles flew out of bounds twice on the floor and failed to stick her landing on the vault. Despite this, she still qualified for the all-around final in first place. During the Olympic events, Biles was unable to complete her skills and popularized the term "twisties", causing her to withdraw from competition after the women's team all-around final. She attributed her loss of air awareness to a mental health condition. Biles returned to perform a downscaled routine in the balance beam final, winning the bronze medal. In 2024 she quipped that critics of her 2020 withdrawal had become "silent" after her return to win three gold medals in the 2024 Summer Olympics.
American gymnasts Laurie Hernandez and Aleah Finnegan both stated that they had experienced a loss of air awareness during their career and spoke out in support of Biles during the games in 2021. Finnegan stated "I cannot imagine the fear of having it happen to you during competition. You have absolutely no control over your body and what it does."
In trampoline gymnastics, the condition is typically referred to as "lost move syndrome". Olympic trampoline gymnast Bryony Page has discussed her personal experience with the condition while preparing to compete in the 2016 Olympics.


== In other areas ==
The yips also affects players in other sports. Examples include Markelle Fultz and Chuck Hayes's respective free throw shots in basketball. In darts, the yips are known as dartitis, with five-time world champion Eric Bristow an example of a sufferer. 
In the National Football League (NFL), a normally reliable placekicker who starts struggling is also said to have the yips. Seven-time Pro Bowler Justin Tucker was described by fans and sportswriters as suffering from yips during his 2024 season, after a seemingly inexplicable series of misses leading to a career-low 73.9% field goal rate, despite finishing 12 seasons as among the most accurate kickers in the league. In 2024, Adam Breneman likened heavy favorite Ohio State’s unexpected loss to Michigan to the Buckeyes having the yips.
Stephen Hendry, seven times snooker World Champion, said after his loss to Mark Williams in the 2010 UK Championship that he had been suffering from the yips for ten years, and that the condition had affected his ability to cue through the ball, causing him great difficulty in regaining his old form.


== See also ==
Analysis paralysis
Choke
Conversion disorder
Dartitis
"Lisa Gets the Blues"
Stage fright
Target panic
"The Centipede's Dilemma"


== References ==

SR5 may refer to:

Matich SR5, a sports car
Music Man StingRay 5, a bass guitar
Toyota SR5, a name for the Toyota Hilux pickup truck in North America
State Road 5 or State Route 5; see List of highways numbered 5
Sierpinski/Riesel Base 5 Problem, a generalization of the Sierpinski and Riesel problems to base 5
SR-5, Chinese export 122/220mm MLRS.
A trim for Toyota trucks and large SUVs

St Wilfrid's Church in George Street, Hulme, Manchester, England, is a former Roman Catholic church. Designed by Augustus Pugin, it was his only known church building in that city.
Construction of St Wilfrid's began in 1839 and the church building was completed in 1842, although a planned tower was never built.
The church served a small number of Irish people who lived in the area. In July 1852, during a period of anti-Catholic demonstrations, the building was mistakenly rumoured to be the target of Protestant people who desired to burn it down. There had been sectarian riots in nearby Stockport in the previous month and the heightened tensions led to a fight in a pub becoming misconstrued as an imminent attack on the church. A large mob of Irish people arrived to defend the building against this non-existent threat and, although the priest, Reverend Toole, attempted to calm them and urged them to disperse, for several days afterwards a group of people stood watch over it. The church had the services of Irish priests from County Kerry continuously from the 1890s until the 1930s.
St Wilfrid's became a Grade II listed building in December 1963. Facing declining enrollment, the parish was suppressed and the church was deconsecrated in 1990. The church was converted into a factory that manufactured beds and in 1994 became an enterprise centre.
Among those buried at the church was William Bally, a Swiss sculptor and phrenologist.


== See also ==

Listed buildings in Manchester-M15


== References ==

"Only" is a song recorded by South Korean singer and songwriter Lee Hi. It was released on August 27, 2021, through AOMG, as the first pre-release single from her third Korean-language and fourth overall studio album, 4 Only. The song was written and composed by Ahn Shin-ae and arranged by Philtre.


== Background and release ==
Following the release of her EP 24°C in 2019, which marked her final release under YG Entertainment, Lee Hi departed the label later that year and subsequently signed with AOMG in July 2020. Under AOMG, she released the digital single “Holo” and later collaborated with South Korean singer Crush on "For You", signaling a new artistic direction and a more frequent release schedule. In August 2021, AOMG officially announced Lee Hi’s third Korean-language and fourth overall studio album, 4 Only, through the label’s official Instagram account, confirming the return of the singer with a full-length project under AOMG. On August 23, 2021, a teaser video was released via AOMG’s official YouTube channel, revealing the album’s title and concept while signaling the start of the promotional campaign for the forthcoming release. The song was released digitally on August 27, 2021, alongside its accompanying music video, ahead of the full album release.


== Composition ==
“Only” was written and composed by Ahn Shin-ae and arranged by Philtre. Musically, the song is a mid-tempo R&B ballad built around a minimalist production that emphasizes emotional restraint and vocal clarity. Critics described the track as being driven primarily by soft piano instrumentation, subdued percussion, and ambient textures, creating an intimate soundscape that places Lee’s vocals at the center of the arrangement. The song’s structure avoids dramatic dynamic shifts, instead favoring a smooth progression between verses and chorus. Reviewers noted that the arrangement relies heavily on negative space and muted instrumentation, allowing emotional nuance to guide the song’s momentum rather than a conventional build-and-drop format. Lyrically, “Only” conveys themes of unconditional devotion, vulnerability, and emotional sincerity, expressed through simple and direct phrasing. Commentators interpreted the song as a reflection of emotional maturity, aligning with the broader tone of 4 Only, which was widely described as cohesive, introspective, and understated in its approach to contemporary R&B.


== Music video ==


=== Background ===
The accompanying music video for “Only” was directed by Han Sa-min and was released on August 27, 2021, to coincide with the song’s digital release. The video stars South Korean actors Lee Je-hoon and Won Jin-ah, marking a high-profile collaboration that drew attention to the single upon release. The music video was positioned as a central visual element of the promotional roll-out for 4 Only.


=== Synopsis and reception ===
The music video depicts a romance unfolding across time, following a couple portrayed in their youth by Lee Je-hoon and Won Jin-ah, and in their later years by Nam Myeong-ryeol and Moon Sook. Rather than presenting a linear plot, the video moves through vignettes of their relationship, juxtaposing intimate moments from earlier in life with images of the couple as elderly, emphasizing love’s endurance over time. In a review of the release, Emerging Sentiments described the video as “movie-like” and centered on a couple “flitting through time,” while also suggesting that an underlying tragedy may be implied beneath the romantic imagery. Separately, Allkpop characterized the music video as telling “a love story through time,” reinforcing the song’s reflective tone through its inter-generational framing. As of 2025, the music video has accumulated over 200 million views on YouTube.


== Critical reception ==
“Only” received generally positive reviews from music critics, who praised its emotional restraint and Lee Hi’s vocal performance. In a review of 4 Only, NME described the song as emblematic of the album’s understated R&B approach, highlighting its simplicity and emotional clarity.
Seoul Therapy noted that “Only” stands out for its intimacy and minimal arrangement, emphasizing how the track allows Lee Hi’s vocals to convey vulnerability without excessive production. Writing for Emerging Sentiments, the reviewer described “Only” as emotionally sincere and central to the album’s thematic focus on love and personal reflection.
Additional commentary from Allkpop highlighted the song’s subdued tone and narrative cohesion with its music video, noting that both elements contribute to the album’s consistent and introspective mood.


== Accolades ==


=== Awards ===


== Commercial performance ==
In South Korea, “Only” debuted on the Gaon Digital Chart during the chart week of September 5–11, 2021, where it peaked at number 93. The song also entered the Billboard K-Pop Hot 100, debuting and peaking at number 56, marking Lee Hi’s return to the chart following the release of her album 4 Only.
Internationally, “Only” achieved notable success in Malaysia, where it reached number one on the Recording Industry Association of Malaysia (RIM) Top 20 Most Streamed International & Domestic Singles chart for the week of September 17–23, 2021.


== Credits and personnel ==
Credits adapted from the liner notes of 4 Only.
Personnel

Lee Hi – vocals, background vocals
Ahn Shin-ae – lyrics, composition
Philtre – arrangement


== Charts ==


== See also ==
Lee Hi discography


== Release history ==


== References ==

Astatotilapia sp. 'dwarf bigeye scraper' is a putative, undescribed species of fish in the family Cichlidae. It is endemic to Kenya, where it is found in Lake Kanyaboli.  It was listed as critically endangered in the 1996-2006 IUCN Red List of Threatened Species, but not mentioned in the most recent versions.


== References ==

DeWitt Clinton Baxter (1829–1881) was an American artist and engraver. He also served as colonel and brevet brigadier general in the Union Army during the American Civil War.


== Early life ==

DeWitt Clinton Baxter was born March 9, 1829, in Dorchester, Massachusetts. In early city directories identified Baxter as an "engraver" (1850–60), "designer" (1861), and "artist" (1862) as he was publisher of "The Baxter Panoramic Business Directory" in Philadelphia. From 1857 on he lived at 454 North Eighth Street, a substantial townhouse (3 stories, 24-feet wide) near Buttonwood Street, and from 1855 until the Civil War he had an office in Hart's Building at the northeast corner of Sixth and Chestnut.


== Civil War ==
In April 1861 Baxter became Lieutenant Colonel of the 19th Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry, but when that three-month enlistment expired, he organized and led the 72nd Pennsylvania Volunteers, "Baxter's Fire Zouaves." They were drawn from the various fire companies of Philadelphia, and were known for their peculiar Zouave uniforms and precise bayonet drills. They "enjoyed a brief period of considerable popularity, so much so, that the citizens of Philadelphia crowded the Academy of Music to witness" their maneuvers on stage."  
Baxter recorded his expertise in such exercises in an illustrated 1861 book, The Volunteer's Manual; containing full instructions for the recruit. . . , which was published by King & Baird, the same firm that published his early panaoramas.


=== Field commands ===
19th Pennsylvania Infantry Regiment; Lieutenant Colonel April 1861 – July 1861
72nd Pennsylvania Infantry Regiment; Colonel July 1861 – July 1863. He led the regiment in the Peninsula Campaign, Antietam Campaign at the Battle of Fredericksburg, the Battle of Gettysburg and the Battle of Wilderness. He was wounded July 2, 1863 at the Battle of Gettysburg.
Philadelphia Brigade; Colonel July 1863 – December 10, 1863
2nd Division, II Corps; Colonel December 10, 1863 – December 21, 1863
72nd Pennsylvania Infantry Regiment; Colonel December 21, 1863 – May 1864.  He was "severely wounded at the Wilderness" in May 1864, "shot through the lungs."
Promoted to brevet brigadier general in March 1865.


== Later life ==
After the war, Baxter was a naval officer at the Custom House from 1867–1871.
In the mid-1870s he was involved in the Keystone Portable Forge Company. He also may have revived his Panoramic Directory business in the late 1870s. Upon his death in May 1881, his obituary reported, Baxter was holding "a position at the Custom house." He died on May 9, 1881, and his obituary appeared on the front-page the following day in the Philadelphia Public Ledger.
Originally buried in Monument Cemetery in Philadelphia, he was reinterred in Lawnview Memorial Park in 1956.


== References ==


== External links ==
Colonel DeWitt Clinton Baxter photo

Givira fidelis is a moth in the family Cossidae. It is found in Costa Rica.
The wingspan is about 33 mm. The base, costal and inner margins, and median vein on the forewings are lilac brown, crossed by darker brown striae. There is a velvety black line along the inner margin from near the base to beyond the middle. The hindwings are fuscous grey, thinly scaled in the discal and postmedial area and with some indistinct darker striae.


== References ==


== External links ==
Natural History Museum Lepidoptera generic names catalog

Yizhar Hess (Hebrew: יזהר הס; born July 5, 1967) is Vice Chairman of the World Zionist Organization. He was elected to that role in 2020 as a representative of MERCAZ, the Zionist slate of the global Masorti/Conservative Movement. He is an activist and commentator on issues of religion and state in Israel, religious pluralism, and Israel-Diaspora relations. Hess previously served for thirteen years as CEO of the Masorti Movement in Israel.


== Biography ==
Yizhar Hess was born and educated in Jerusalem. He studied at Gymnasia Rehavia and was active in Tzofim (scouts). He has a BA in Hebrew Literature and Political Science from the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, a degree in law from The Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya and an MA degree in Jewish Studies from the Schechter Institute of Jewish Studies, and a Ph.D. from the Department of Philosophy of Education at Sussex University in Brighton, England.
Hess began his service with the Israel Defense Forces in 1985 in the Armored Corps and later became an information officer in the Education and Youth Corps.


== Media career ==
After his release from the army in 1990, Hess worked as a copywriter in an advertising agency and later as a journalist for Shishi, a newspaper that appeared on Fridays.


== Academic career ==
During his studies at the Hebrew University, he joined the Shorashim Institute for Jewish Studies. Hess conducted and directed seminars at the Institute until he was appointed vice CEO of the Institute in 1996, a position he held until 1999.


== Israel diplomacy ==
In 2000 Hess started serving as the Jewish Agency's shaliach to Tucson, Arizona. He wrote a weekly column in the Arizona Jewish Post and won an excellence Award (2002) from the Association of Jewish Centers in North America (now known as the JCCA, the JCC Association) for the many cultural programs he initiated in Arizona and an Excellence Award on behalf of the Jewish Federation (2003).  He was also a regular commentator about Israel on the weekly program The Too Jewish Radio Show with Rabbi Sam Cohon and Friends during his tenure in Tucson.
Upon his return to Israel in 2003, he continued to work for the Jewish Agency as director of partnerships between Jewish communities abroad and in Israel.


== Masorti movement ==
Yizhar became the CEO of the Masorti movement in Israel in 2007, holding the position until 2020. He has served as one of the negotiators attempting to work out an agreement to handle pluralist worship at the Western Wall that would meet the requirements of the Women of the Wall and the requirements of Rabbi Shmuel Rabinowitz, the Administrator of the Western Wall and the Holy Sites. An agreement was announced among the various factions in early 2016, but when ultra-orthodox members of the current government coalition threatened to abandon the coalition, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu announced difficulties and said the arrangement would take longer.  Hess criticized Netanyahu's backtracking on the agreement.


== Views and opinions ==
Hess has been an outspoken critic of fundamentalism: "We must say it loud and clear: Jewish fundamentalism is no better and no worse than any other kind of religious fundamentalism. The only difference is that it is clear to all of us that we must fight Islamic fundamentalism. But when it comes to the fundamentalism in our own home, the fundamentalism which is active within us, which is threatening our life as a Jewish-democratic state and endangering Zionism as a historic enterprise, we hesitate even after 20 years." Hess also defended Conservative Judaism against criticism from David Lau, Ashkenazi Chief Rabbi of Israel, who made disparaging remarks about Bayit Yehudi chairman and Education Minister Naftali Bennett visiting a Conservative Jewish school in the U.S.
Hess is concerned that if politicians and Orthodox rabbis continue to disparage non-Orthodox streams of Judaism, and the Knesset delays pluralist worship solutions for the Western Wall and passes legislation limiting non-Orthodox access to state-funded mikvehs, this could impact on  the relationship between Israel and diaspora Jews.
Since becoming Vice Chairman of the World Zionist Organization, Hess has focused on advancing the idea of Jewish Peoplehood. He has spoken with groups of Israelis and Diaspora Jews about Israel-Diaspora relations, educating Diaspora Jews on issues of religion and state and other political issues in Israel. Elected as a representative of MERCAZ, the Zionist slate of the Masorti/Conservative Movement, Hess has been a leading advocate for advancing pluralism and liberal values in the work of the WZO, Jewish Agency and KKL/JNF, Keren Hayesod, where he serves on their boards of directors. During the protests against the proposed judicial overhaul in Israel in 2023, Hess was a leading voice representing the concerns of Diaspora Jews.


== References ==


== External links ==
Publications and articles by Hess

Walford is a fictional borough of East London in the BBC soap opera EastEnders. It is the primary setting for the soap. EastEnders is filmed at Borehamwood in Hertfordshire, towards the north-west of London. Much of the location work is filmed in nearby Watford, which was chosen for many of the exterior scenes due to its close proximity and the town's name being so similar to Walford. Thus, any stray road signs or advertising boards which are accidentally filmed in the back of shots will appear to read Walford. Locations used in Watford include most interior and exterior church scenes of various churches, the snooker club, the County Court and Magistrates' Courts courtrooms, and the cemetery (where most of the deceased characters are interred).
The name Walford is both a street in Dalston where one of the series' creators, Tony Holland, lived and a blend of Walthamstow, where Holland was born, and Stratford. The suffix '-ford' is found throughout Britain (for example, Bradford, Guildford and Telford); it just means the first place you can cross a river. Walford's London postcode district is E20 (real East London postcode districts only went up to E18 until 2011, when E20 was introduced to serve the London 2012 Olympic Park). Walford's fictional tube station, Walford East, is located on the EastEnders tube map in the position normally occupied by the real Bromley-by-Bow tube station. As part of the 2010 Children In Need charity appeal, Walford became twinned with Weatherfield in a special programme uniting the two soaps EastEnders and Coronation Street called "East Street".


== Locations within Walford ==


=== Albert Square ===

The main setting of EastEnders is Albert Square, where many of the characters reside. Central to the Square is the garden. The garden is home to Arthur Fowler's (Bill Treacher) bench, which was placed there in memory of him. The bench is also known as the 'Bench of Tears', as it is often the place where characters will go and cry. One corner of the square is taken up by The Queen Victoria Public House. There is a B&B and a car lot. The square's design was based on Fassett Square in Dalston, and was given the name Albert Square after Prince Albert. The Queen Victoria was also given its name due to this. The Queen Victoria public house, known to residents as the Queen Vic or simply 'The Vic', stands south of the square at number 46 Albert Square, where it joins with Bridge Street. East of the pub is a building with 2 flats and west of these in the southwest corner leads off to a walkway through to Turpin Way, on which the Walford Community Centre and Playground are found. To the west of the Queen Vic, across the junction with Bridge Street, is the Beale house, 45 Albert Square. Next to that is 43 Albert Square. In the southwest corner of the square is number 41. Between numbers 41 and 43 is Daisy Lane, a pathway connecting Albert Square to Victoria Square. Daisy Lane was named after the daughter of Series Designer Steven Keogh.  On the west edge of The Square there are two houses 18 and 20 Albert Square, which have been knocked through as a single property and then later separated again. It was previously Walford's B&B, 'Kim's Palace'. North of the old B&B is the rear of 55 Victoria Road. A row of five terraced houses line the north edge of Albert Square. The westernmost house is number 31. The property next door is split into two flats. Number 25 is the former home of Dot Cotton (June Brown). The easternmost property in the terrace is number 23, which was destroyed in September 2014 by a fire. On the northeast edge of Albert Square is a small car dealership, south of which is another terrace of three elevated properties. The northernmost house is number 5. A road leads north at the square's northeast edge, passing by the car lot. The middle house is at 3 Albert Square. Most southerly of this terrace is number 1, originally flats with the doctor's surgery on the ground floor, which later became a single house.


=== Bridge Street ===

Bridge Street is the location of the street market and shops including the café, launderette, and mini-supermarket. The café is originally named Al's Cafe and owned by Ali Osman (Nejdet Salih) and Sue Osman (Sandy Ratcliff), where they also operate the taxi firm OzCabs. When Ali develops a gambling addiction, he is forced to sell the café to Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt), who manages it with his wife, Cindy Beale (Michelle Collins), until he sells the business to his mother, Kathy Beale (Gillian Taylforth). Ian buys the café back following the birth of Kathy's son, Ben Mitchell (Matthew Silver), although loses the business when he becomes bankrupt years later. Phil Mitchell (Steve McFadden) buys the property and employs Laura Beale (Hannah Waterman), the estranged wife of Ian, to manage it. She renames the property to Laura's Café. Laura dies and Phil is falsely imprisoned so when Phil signs the café to his sister, Sam Mitchell (Kim Medcalf), she naïvely sells the business back to Ian. Ian manages the café with his wife Jane Beale (Laurie Brett) until they divorce and Jane wins the business in the divorce settlement. Jane sells the café to Phil and he lets his partner, Shirley Carter (Linda Henry), manage it. She names the property Shirley's Cafe. Phil sells the business to Ian, and he renames the café to Mandy's Café. When Ian has a nervous breakdown and leaves, his daughter Lucy Beale (Hetti Bywater) takes control of his businesses, calling the cafe Cindy's Café. Upon his return, Ian regains ownership of the café and when she returns to Walford, Jane manages it. A few years later, Kathy returns and when she begins managing the café, Ian renames it to Kathy's Café. A year later, Ian sells the property to Weyland & Co, a property development company, which upsets Kathy. Weeks later, Fi Browning (Lisa Faulkner), a business consultant for the company, gifts the café to Kathy after discovering that her father, James Willmott-Brown (William Boyde) raped Kathy.
The launderette is owned by Mr Papadopolous until his death in 1992; the business passes to his son, Andonis Papadopolous and in 2016, it is passed to Andonis's son, Apostolos Papadopolous. Apostolos sells the launderette to Phil Mitchell and Kat Slater (Jessie Wallace) in 2021, and Kat also sets up a taxi company called “Kat’s Cabs” in the backroom.


=== Turpin Road ===

Turpin Road is the location of a war memorial, bookmaker, chip shop, funeral parlour, restaurant and an upmarket bar as well as several other businesses. The name Turpin Road was chosen after the show's creator read that the East End was the haunt of notorious highwaymen, such as Dick Turpin.
The nightclub on Turpin Road is originally named Strokes Wine Bar until George Palmer (Paul Moriarty) buys it and renames it "The Cobra Club". He uses the club as a cover for his criminal business. Annie Palmer (Nadia Sawalha), George's daughter, takes over the control of the club when he leaves; she renames the club "The Market Cellar". Annie later sells the club to Steve Owen (Martin Kemp), who renames it "e20". In 1999, under Steve's ownership, Saskia Duncan (Deborah Sheridan-Taylor) is killed in the club after a struggle with Steve and Matthew Rose (Joe Absolom). Beppe di Marco (Michael Greco) and Billy Mitchell (Perry Fenwick) buy the club from Steve, although Beppe sells his majority share to Sharon Watts (Letitia Dean), who rebrands the club "Angie's Den", in memory of her parents Angie Watts (Anita Dobson) and Den Watts (Leslie Grantham). Following a refurbishment, Den buys into the business and co-owns with Sharon. They sell the club to Johnny Allen (Billy Murray), who renames it "Scarlet" after his deceased daughter. Johnny gives the club to his surviving daughter, Ruby Allen (Louisa Lytton), when he is imprisoned. The start of Stacey Slater (Lacey Turner) and Bradley Branning's (Charlie Clements) relationship begins in Scarlet when Bradley is falsely blamed for spiking Stacey's drink. A reporter from Inside Soap labelled the moment "a rather unromantic start to Stacey and Bradders' love story!" Ronnie Mitchell (Samantha Womack) and Jack Branning (Scott Maslen) buy the club, renaming it the "R&R" - the initials of Ronnie and her sister, Roxy Mitchell (Rita Simons). Ronnie and Roxy run the club, while Jack operates as a silent partner. When Ronnie and Jack separate, Ronnie sells her share of the club to Jack, although after a fire in the club, Ronnie and Roxy each buy a share in the club. When Billy tries to woo Carol Jackson (Lindsay Coulson), Carol's daughter Bianca Jackson (Patsy Palmer) becomes aggressive and creates an argument between them, Stacey, Janine Butcher (Charlie Brooks) and Kat Slater (Jessie Wallace). An Inside Soap columnist labelled the argument "one of our favourite catfights". Jack is later shot at the club by gang member Kylie (Elarica Gallacher), and a few months later, he sells his share of the club to Phil Mitchell (Steve McFadden). Ronnie and Roxy also sell their shares to Janine. Upon her return to Walford, Sharon becomes the R&R's bar manager and she holds her wedding to Jack at the club. At the altar, Jack jilts Sharon, leaving her saddened. Sharon is also offered a small share in the business by Phil. Janine and Sharon later sell their shares to Phil, leaving him as the sole-owner. The R&R closes at some point in before Christmas 2016, and remains shut until February 2018, when Sharon decides to reopen it, with Mel Owen (Tamzin Outhwaite) as the manager. Mel plans to rename the club "The Phoenix", but her son Hunter Owen (Charlie Winter) sabotages the refurbishment and rebrands it "E20" again in honour of his father, Steve, while infuriating Mel, who goes along with it to keep Hunter happy. When Mel's ex-husband Ray Kelly (Sean Mahon) plans to remarry her, he buys Phil's 50% stake in the E20 and gifts it to Mel as a wedding present. In November 2019, Mel decides to sell her half of the E20 to Ruby and later blackmails Sharon into selling her half too, leaving Ruby as the new sole-owner of the club, which she renames "Ruby’s". In May 2022, Ruby puts the club up for sale and Sam Mitchell (Kim Medcalf) discovers that her brother, Phil's, money-laundering associate, Jonah Tyler (Mark Mooney), is planning on buying the club from Ruby. She approaches Phil with this news and they agree to outbuy Jonah, reopen the club as a wine bar and run it together; renaming it "Peggy’s" in honour of their late mother, Peggy Mitchell (Barbara Windsor). Co-run by Phil, Sam, Kat and Sharon, the opening night of Peggy's was on 7 July 2022.
The Dagmar at 10 Turpin Road is first mentioned in 1986 and seen in 1987 when James Willmott-Brown (William Boyde) takes over and turns it into a wine bar. After James rapes Kathy Beale (Gillian Taylforth), the bar is burnt down on the orders of Den. The building is then used for several businesses, including Ian Beale's (Adam Woodyatt) Meal Machine, a catering business, and a bric-a-brac shop, also owned by Ian. It also becomes a beauty salon, first called Sophisti-Kate's, run by Kate Mitchell (Jill Halfpenny), then Booty, run by Tanya Branning (Jo Joyner), Roxy's, run by Roxy Mitchell (Rita Simons), and Beauty, run by Sadie Young (Kate Magowan). It returns to being a wine and cocktail bar in 2014 when Sharon Watts opens The Albert. After Vincent Hubbard (Richard Blackwood) buys half the bar and Sharon later sells her half to Vincent as well, he and his wife, Kim Fox-Hubbard (Tameka Empson), run it until he is forced to sell it to pay people he owes money to and it is left empty in early 2018. Kathy buys the building in 2019, and decides to reopen it as a gay bar called The Prince Albert.
Next door to the nightclub is a building that originally housed the Snooker World snooker club. When Johnny Allen buys Angie's Den, he buys Snooker World and merges the two together to give Scarlet a more open space. After 4 Turpin Road is again separated into two buildings in 2011, Janine Butcher uses it to house her property management business, Butcher's Joints. After Janine's arrest for murder, it is converted into a salon called Blades, owned by Dean Wicks (Matt Di Angelo) until he is arrested for rape. Belinda Peacock (Carli Norris) then opens her own salon called Elysium until she is forced to close it down a few months later due to high debts. It is reopened in 2019 by Denise Fox (Diane Parish) as a salon named Fox & Hair.


=== George Street ===

George Street is the location of an Italian restaurant, Giuseppe's, which later becomes an Indian restaurant, The Argee Bhajee, when a new owner takes over. Walford East tube station is on George Street, which first appeared on screen in late 1985 when Lou Beale (Anna Wing) collapses outside it. On maps seen inside the station it replaces Bromley-by-Bow on the District line, although the building is in the style of the Bakerloo line stations designed by Stanley Heaps. The train sound was first heard in 1987 and the train's first appearance was in 1988 at Lou Beale's funeral. Trains did not appear again until 4 February 2010, when CGI was used in the show for the first time. Platforms within the station were first seen in 2011 when Charlie Slater (Derek Martin) left Walford. George Street also has a B&B, King George Guest House, which opened in 2008.


=== Other streets ===

Turpin Way includes the local garage, informally known as The Arches, the community centre, a playground and a boxing gym. Other locations seen or mentioned in the series include Victoria Square, Walford Towers, Kingsley Road, Spring Lane and the High Street. Storylines in 2017 mentioned the demolition of Walford Towers, as a means of introducing new characters to the series, although the demolition was cancelled. Walford Common was introduced to the series for the "Who Killed Lucy Beale?" storyline in 2014, while Walford Common underground station was introduced in 2019. Other Walford streets mentioned at various times include Clifton Hill Road, New Street, Fairford Lane, Elwell Road, Sewardstone Road, Clarisdown Street, Wellington Road, Crescent Park Road, Somer Street, Station Road, Elm Road and Montpelier Road. Lou Beale (Anna Wing) also mentions in 1987 that Bassett Street is just off Turpin Road.


== See also ==
EastEnders#Set
List of fictional railway stations
List of fictional rapid transit stations
List of London Underground-related fiction


== References ==


=== Bibliography ===


== External links ==

BBC map of Walford via Internet Archive
Information on Walford East via Internet Archive
Fassett Square, "The original inspiration for EastEnders"

The 173rd Tunnelling Company was one of the tunnelling companies of the Royal Engineers created by the British Army during World War I. The tunnelling units were occupied in offensive and defensive mining involving the placing and maintaining of mines under enemy lines, as well as other underground work such as the construction of deep dugouts for troop accommodation, the digging of subways, saps (a narrow trench dug to approach enemy trenches), cable trenches and  underground chambers for signals and medical services. On 17 April 1915, 173rd Tunnelling Company became the first Royal Engineer tunnelling company to fire mines beneath enemy lines.


== Background ==

By January 1915 it had become evident to the BEF at the Western Front that the Germans were mining to a planned system. As the British had failed to develop suitable counter-tactics or underground  listening devices before the war, field marshals French and Kitchener agreed to investigate the suitability of forming  British mining units. Following consultations between the Engineer-in-Chief of the BEF, Brigadier George Fowke, and the mining specialist John Norton-Griffiths, the War Office formally approved the tunnelling company scheme on 19 February 1915.
Norton-Griffiths ensured that tunnelling companies numbers 170 to 177 were ready for deployment in mid-February 1915. In the spring of that year, there was constant underground fighting in the Ypres Salient at Hooge, Hill 60, Railway Wood, Sanctuary Wood, St Eloi and The Bluff which required the deployment of new drafts of tunnellers for several months after the formation of the first eight companies. The lack of suitably experienced men led to some tunnelling companies starting work later than others. The number of units available to the BEF was also restricted by the need to provide effective counter-measures to the German mining activities. To make the tunnels safer and quicker to deploy, the British Army enlisted experienced coal miners, many outside their nominal recruitment policy. The first nine companies, numbers 170 to 178, were each commanded by a regular Royal Engineers officer. These companies each comprised 5 officers and 269 sappers; they were aided by additional infantrymen who were temporarily attached to the tunnellers as required, which almost doubled their numbers.  The success of the first tunnelling companies formed under Norton-Griffiths' command led to mining being made a separate branch of the  Engineer-in-Chief's office under Major-General S.R. Rice, and the appointment of an 'Inspector of Mines' at the GHQ Saint-Omer office of the Engineer-in-Chief. A second group of tunnelling companies were formed from Welsh miners from the 1st and 3rd Battalions of the Monmouthshire Regiment, who were attached to the 1st Northumberland Field Company of the Royal Engineers, which was a Territorial unit. The formation of twelve new tunnelling companies, between July and October 1915, helped to bring more men into action in other parts of the Western Front.
Most tunnelling companies were formed under Norton-Griffiths' leadership during 1915, and one more was added in 1916. On 10 September 1915, the British government sent an appeal to Canada, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand to raise tunnelling companies in the Dominions of the British Empire. On 17 September, New Zealand became the first Dominion to agree the formation of a tunnelling unit. The New Zealand Tunnelling Company arrived at Plymouth on 3 February 1916 and was deployed to the Western Front in northern France. A Canadian unit was formed from men on the battlefield, plus two other companies trained in Canada and then shipped to France. Three Australian tunnelling companies were formed by March 1916, resulting in 30 tunnelling companies of the Royal Engineers being available by the summer of 1916.


== Unit history ==


=== Laventie ===
From its formation in March 1915 until the end of the war 173rd Tunnelling Company served under Second Army in the Ypres Salient. It moved into the Fauquissart area near Laventie in northern France.


=== Hill 60 ===

Mining and counter-mining had been going on at Hill 60 near Ypres for months before the formation of the first Royal Engineer tunnelling units. On 17 February 1915, British sappers at Hill 60 blew a small mine which they had taken over from the French, but without great effect. The Germans retaliated with a small mine at Zwarteleen, but were driven out of the British positions. On 21 February, however, they blew a large mine nearby, killing forty-seven men and ten officers of the 16th Lancers. In mid-March the Germans blew another large mine at Zwarteleen, creating a 9.1-metre (30 ft)  deep crater and damaging their own lines in the process.
In spring 1915, the newly formed 173rd Tunnelling Company was given the job of undertaking a major mining operation beneath Hill 60. In the first British offensive underground attack operation in the Ypres Salient, they laid six mines by 10 April 1915, an operation planned by Major-General E. Bulfin, commander of the 28th Division and continued by the 5th Division when the 28th Division was relieved. Work beneath Hill 60 began early in March and three tunnels were begun towards the German line about 50 yards (46 m) away, a pit first having been dug some 16 feet (4.9 m) deep. Almost immediately the miners came upon dead bodies and quick-lime had to be brought over to cover them. By the time the work was finished, the tunnels stretched more than 100 yards (91 m). Two mines in the north were charged with 2,000 pounds (910 kg) of explosives each, two mines in the centre had 2,700 pounds (1,200 kg) charges and in the south one mine was packed with 500 pounds (230 kg) of guncotton, although work on it had been stopped when it ran close to a German tunnel. The explosive charges were ready on 15 April and on 17 April 1915 at 19:05 the mine group was fired.


=== Aubers Ridge ===
The unit was employed under the command of I Corps and the Indian Corps on operations in preparation for the Battle of Aubers Ridge on 9 May 1915, which formed part of the British contribution to the Second Battle of Artois (9 May – 18 June 1915). The Battle of Aubers Ridge marked only the second British use of specialist tunnelling companies, who tunnelled under no man's land and planted mines under the German defences to be blown at zero hour. 173rd Tunnelling Company  was also extended to the Rue du Bois and Red Lamp areas soon afterwards.


=== Cuinchy 1915 ===
In summer 1915, the 173rd Tunnelling Company was employed under the command of the 2nd Division on operations near Cuinchy. 170th and 176th Tunnelling Company were also deployed under the 2nd Division at that time.


=== Loos 1916/17 ===
In January 1916, the 173rd Tunnelling Company moved to the Hulluch-Loos area. The unit began sinking shafts and driving galleries to counter an enemy mining initiative immediately to the south and east of Loos.  When 255th Tunnelling Company was formed the same month, some experienced officers and men from 173rd Tunnelling Company were attached to the new unit.
From January 1916 to April 1917, 173rd Tunnelling Company  waged war underground on three levels ("Main", "Deep", "Deep Deep") in the Hill 70 - Copse - Double Crassier area of Loos, supported by the newly raised 258th Tunnelling Company which deployed in April 1916. This mining sector, together with Hulluch to the North, was then taken over by 3rd Australian Tunnelling Company until September 1918. By that time the enemy mining threat had ceased completely and the front was relatively quiet.


=== Ypres Salient ===
In spring of 1917, 173rd Tunnelling Company moved to the Ypres Canal sector near Boezinge where it commenced work on the dugout at Yorkshire Trench. This was an addition to the existing fortification; it was a first line trench for about one year between summer or autumn 1916 until the summer of 1917. The completed Yorkshire Trench dugout then served as headquarters for the 13th and 16th Battalions of the Royal Welch Fusiliers at the start of the Battle of Passchendaele later that year. The BEF had decided to carry out all operations in the offensive of summer 1917 from deep dugouts. East of the Ypres Canal in the close vicinity of Yorkshire Trench there were several more dugouts, seven of which - all south and southeast of Yorkshire Trench - were finished by the 173rd or 179th Tunnelling Companies. Of these, Yorkshire Trench, Butt 18, Nile Trench and Heading Lane Dugout were double battalion headquarters, Bridge 6 was a brigade headquarters, and Lancashire Farm Dugout contained two battalion and two brigade headquarters. The condition of the ground made digging the deep dugouts extremely difficult and dangerous. Work had to be carried out silently and secretly, facing an observant enemy who was only a few hundred metres away. About 180 dugout sites have been located in the Ypres Salient and in the 1990s some of them were entered, at least in part. 
Yorkshire Trench was rediscovered by amateur archaeologists and systematically excavated in 1998. Although the area is now part of a large industrial estate, the location was opened to the public in 2003 (see aerial photo of the site). Yorkshire Trench is located close to the John McCrae memorial site at Essex Farm.


=== Spring Offensive ===

In March 1918, the 173rd Tunnelling Company were working alongside 177th Tunnelling Company on the Fifth Army's Green Line near Wiencourt on the Somme when the German spring offensive (21 March – 18 July 1918)  opened, and were ordered to halt an uncontrolled retreat by Allied units on the Guillaucourt-Marcelcave road. 253rd Tunnelling Company were also involved in the latter operation.
173rd Tunnelling Company played an important role in destroying the Somme bridges in an attempt to slow the enemy advance. On 25 March 1918, personnel of the unit were converted into infantry – called No 2 RE Battalion – for emergency purposes, along with other Royal Engineers troops from XIX Corps (see 258th Tunnelling Company).
In April 1918, the 173rd and several other tunnelling companies (171st, 183rd, 184th, 255th, 258th and 3rd Australian) were forced to move from their camps at Boeschepe, when the enemy broke through the Lys positions during the Spring Offensive. These units were then put on duties that included digging and wiring trenches over a long distance from Reningelst to near Saint-Omer. The operation to construct these fortifications between Reningelst and Saint-Omer was carried out jointly by the British 171st, 173rd, 183rd, 184th, 255th, 258th, 3rd Canadian and 3rd Australian Tunnelling Companies.


=== Armistice ===
After the Armistice of 11 November 1918, Captain D. Richards MC of the 173rd Tunnelling Company became the last officer of a tunnelling company of the Royal Engineers to leave French soil.


== See also ==
Mine warfare


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Edmonds, J. E. (1928). Military Operations France and Belgium, 1915: Battles of Aubers Ridge, Festubert, and Loos. History of the Great War Based on Official Documents By Direction of the Historical Section of the Committee of Imperial Defence. Vol. II (1st ed.). London: Macmillan. OCLC 58962526.
Edmonds, J. E.; Wynne, G. C. (1995) [1927]. Military Operations France and Belgium, 1915: Winter 1914–15 Battle of Neuve Chapelle: Battles of Ypres. History of the Great War Based on Official Documents by Direction of the Historical Section of the Committee of Imperial Defence. Vol. I (Imperial War Museum and Battery Press repr. ed.). London: Macmillan. ISBN 978-0-89839-218-0.
Holt, Tonie; Holt, Valmai (2004) [2004]. Major & Mrs Holt's Concise Illustrated Battlefield Guide: The Western Front-North. Barnsley: Pen & Sword Books. ISBN 0-85052-933-6.
Jones, Simon (2010). Underground Warfare 1914–1918. Pen & Sword Military. ISBN 978-1-84415-962-8.


== Further reading ==
Alexander Barrie (1988). War Underground – The Tunnellers of the Great War. ISBN 1-871085-00-4.
The Work of the Royal Engineers in the European War 1914 -1919, – MILITARY MINING.
Arthur Stockwin (ed.), Thirty-odd Feet Below Belgium: An Affair of Letters in the Great War 1915-1916, Parapress (2005), ISBN 978-1-89859-480-2 (online)
Graham E. Watson & Richard A. Rinaldi, The Corps of Royal Engineers: Organization and Units 1889–2018, Tiger Lily Books, 2018, ISBN 978-171790180-4.
An overview of the history of 173rd Tunnelling Company is also available in Robert K. Johns, Battle Beneath the Trenches: The Cornish Miners of 251 Tunnelling Company RE, Pen & Sword Military 2015 (ISBN 978-1473827004), p. 216 see online


== External links ==
List of tunnelling companies of the Royal Engineers, with short unit histories

Hephzibah Menuhin (20 May 1920 – 1 January 1981) was an American-Australian pianist, writer, and human rights campaigner.  She was sister to the violinist Yehudi Menuhin and to the pianist, painter, and poet Yaltah Menuhin. She was also a linguist and writer, co-authoring several books and writing many papers with her second husband, Richard Hauser.


== Early life ==
Hephzibah Menuhin was born in San Francisco, California. Through her father Moshe Menuhin, Menuhin was descended from a distinguished rabbinical dynasty. Her mother, Marutha, has been described as "dominant and controlling".
The Menuhin children had little formal schooling. Hephzibah spent only five days at a San Francisco school, where she was classed as educationally backward. Her parents took her out of school and taught her to read and write at home. She started studying the piano at the age of four, initially with Judith Blockley, a specialist in teaching young children, and later with Lev Shorr, a Russian-born grand-pupil of Theodor Leschetizky and future teacher of Leon Fleisher.
She gave her first recital in San Francisco in 1928 when she was eight. She then studied with Rudolf Serkin in Basel and Marcel Ciampi in Paris. In 1933 she and Yehudi made their first recording (a Mozart sonata), which won the Candid Prize as best disc of the year. Her public debut was on 13 October 1934, at the Salle Pleyel in Paris. The siblings performed in the New York Town Hall and Queen's Hall in London, and Hephzibah gave solo recitals in most of the major cities of Europe and America.


=== Australian connection ===
In March 1938, after a concert at the Royal Albert Hall, Bernard Heinze introduced Hephzibah and Yehudi to the Australian brother and sister Lindsay and Nola Nicholas, heirs to the Australian 'Aspro' pharmaceutical fortune.
In quick succession, Yehudi (aged 21) married Nola, and Hephzibah (aged 17) married Lindsay, abandoning her plans to give her debut recital in Carnegie Hall, New York. She moved with Lindsay Nicholas to his grazing property "Terrinallum" near Derrinallum, Victoria, where she spent the next 13 years.
She started a traveling library for children and bore two sons, Kronrod and Marston Nicholas. However, while she curtailed her musical career, she did not entirely abandon it. She played with the Sydney and Melbourne Symphony Orchestras and she and Yehudi played together many times during his 1940 tour of Australia. She gave solo recitals, supported local activities such as the Griller Quartet, and was involved with Richard Goldner in the foundation of Musica Viva Australia.
She befriended many displaced European musicians who had emigrated to Australia. During this time she played the Australian premiere of Bartók's Second Piano Concerto. Both of the Menuhins' marriages to the Nicholases ended in divorce. Hephzibah's own two children remained with their father, Lindsay Nicholas.


== Career and causes ==
In 1947, she played at the Prague Spring Music Festival in a concert organised by Paul Morawetz, a Melbourne businessman. He took her to see the Theresienstadt concentration camp, which had a profound effect on her, forcing her to confront the meaning of her own Jewish heritage, and they entered a romantic relationship which lasted for several years.
In 1951 she and Yehudi played at the opening of the Royal Festival Hall in London, then made a concert tour of Australia and played and broadcast for the ABC.  She supported all types of causes with concerts and recitals, such as the National Music Camp Association, and she was outspoken about the influence of television on children. In Sydney she was soloist in Juan José Castro's piano concerto, with the composer conducting (he was at that time the chief conductor of the Victorian Symphony Orchestra). In 1954 she moved to Sydney, where she gave concerts and opened her home to anyone in need. She was also connected with the Heide circle of contemporary artists and opened the Royal Tour Contemporary Art Exhibition in 1954 at Mirka Mora's studio in Melbourne.


=== London ===
In Sydney, Hephzibah Menuhin met and became involved with Richard Hauser, an Austrian Quaker sociologist and social commentator who had moved to Sydney with his family, then wife Ruth Hauser, and their daughter Eva. Hephzibah divorced her husband and married Hauser in Sydney in 1955. Two years later Menuhin and Hauser moved to London with their daughter, Clara Menuhin-Hauser, where they fostered Michael Alexander Morgan, a boy of mixed Welsh and Nigerian background, who grew up with Clara.
They founded the Institute for Human Rights and Responsibilities, and the Centre for Group Studies, and later moved to Friends Hall, a Quaker settlement house in Bethnal Green, in the East End of London. They later ran a Human Rights refuge from their house at 16 Ponsonby Place in Pimlico. This also became the base for The Institute for Social Research, which Sir Richard Hauser ran until his death. They worked on small-steps conciliation and attempted to help minorities all over the world, and she was a passionate supporter of women's and children's rights.
In 1977 Hephzibah Menuhin became the President of the British chapter of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom. Hephzibah and Richard Hauser wrote "The Fraternal Society" (Bodley Head) together.
In 1962 she and Yehudi toured Australia. She toured with Yehudi and the Menuhin Festival Orchestra: the United States and Canada in 1967, and Australia in 1970 and 1975. In 1977 she was a member of the judges' panel for the first Sydney International Piano Competition. In Melbourne that year she played at a concert at which her son, Dr Marston Nicholas, made his public debut as a cellist.
In 1979 Hephzibah Menuhin made her last Australian concert appearances, playing with Yehudi and the Sydney String Quartet. She appeared with her brother for the last time at the Royal Festival Hall in London in November 1979.


== Death and legacy ==
Hephzibah Menuhin died in London on 1 January 1981,  following a lengthy illness. Her brother, Yehudi, dedicated his Royal Albert Hall concert on 08 February 1981 and his Carnegie Hall concert of 22 February 1981 to her memory. Her recordings include Schubert's Trout Quintet with members of the Amadeus Quartet, Mozart concertos with her brother conducting, trios with Yehudi and Maurice Gendron, and sonatas with Yehudi.


== Memorial ==
The annual $8,000 Hephzibah Menuhin Memorial Scholarship for young Australian pianists was established in 1980. It is administered alternately by the University of Melbourne Faculty of Music and the Sydney Conservatorium of Music.  The principal soloist's dressing room at the Melbourne Arts Centre's Hamer Hall was named in Hephzibah's honour.
In 1998 Curtis Levy produced and directed a documentary, Hephzibah.  A biography An Exacting Heart was published in 2008 by Jacqueline Kent.
A biography of Yehudi Menuhin and his family entitled Yehudiana – Reliving the Menuhin Odyssey by Philip Bailey, who worked on the Menuhin staff from 1976 until Yehudi's death in 1999, was published in late 2008. This book contains some information concerning Hephzibah's life.


== References ==


== External links ==
Short biography (from the ABC Radio National website). Dead Link
Photographs Archived 13 September 2009 at the Wayback Machine (from the Archive of Australian Judaica Archived 23 August 2009 at the Wayback Machine).
[1] (short video with images of Hepzibah and Richard and their homes in Bethnal Green and Ponsonby Place.)

Orvin Land is the land area of the northeastern part of Nordaustlandet, Svalbard, east of Duvefjorden, including the lower part of Austfonna. The area is named after geologist Anders Kristian Orvin. Orvin Land is bordered by Prins Oscars Land to the east and Austfonna to the south.


== References ==

Mariya Ovechkina (born 1990) is a beauty contest contestant who won the title of Miss Irkutsk in 2009 and participated in the Miss Russia 2010 contest.


== Biography ==
Ovechkina was born in Severomorsk and . She won the 2009 Miss Irkutsk contest. At the time she studied at the Baikal University of Economics and Law, in the modern dance program. Ovechkina was hoping to become an economist and entrepreneur, open her own restaurant in Irkutsk, and release a music album consisting of the songs from her pageant performances.


== Contestants Miss Russia 2010 ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official site for Miss Irkutsk

Cloghaneleskirt (Irish: Clothán leiscirt) is a townland of County Kerry, Ireland.
It is one of the sixteen original townlands of the civil parish of Kilflynn and is the most westerly of them. The north is partly bordered by a tributary of the Shannow river. The townland consists of rural land, some of it forested, with a large area having had turf cut from it for local fuel.
Immediately north of Cloghaneleskirt is the Pallas Wind Farm (or Clahane wind farm) which has 26 turbines with a nominal power of 53.8 megawatts.


== History ==
The Irish name has yet to be confirmed officially. There have been different anglicized spellings including Clahaneleskirt, Clahaneliskurt, and Clohanleskart. In the 1841 Ordnance Survey parish namebook it is noted as meaning 'south stony ford'. There is information from local people in the 1936 'Schools Collection' about the district as well as folk tales.
Cloghaneleskirt was originally owned by James Stack, of the Stack family common to the area and the eponymous mountain, mountain range and adjacent townland. He was a supporter of the Irish Rebellion of 1641 and the Catholic Confederation. As a result, his land was confiscated by Cromwell's forces after the Act for the Settlement of Ireland in 1652. It was granted to Henry Ponsonby (born 1620), a Cromwellian soldier, after the Act of Settlement of 1662.


== Representation ==
Cloghaneleskirt is in the Roman Catholic parish of Abbeydorney, whose priest is the Very Reverend Denis O’Mahony. 
The local parliamentary constituency (since 2016) is Kerry, returning five Teachtaí Dála (TDs) to the Dáil Éireann. The current TDs are Norma Foley (Fianna Fáil), Pa Daly (Sinn Féin), Brendan Griffin (Fine Gael), Danny Healy-Rae (Independent) and Michael Healy-Rae (Independent).


== See also ==
Kilflynn
Civil parishes in Ireland


== References ==

Mount Ayr, Ayrmont, Ayr Mountains, or variation, may refer to:


== Places ==
Aïr Mountains, Niger; a triangular massif bordering the Sahara desert
Ayr Mountains, Kazakhstan
USA
Mount Ayr is the name of several places in the United States:

Mount Ayr, Indiana; a town
Mount Ayr, Iowa; a city
Mount Ayr Township, Kansas


== Other uses ==
Ayr Mount, Hillsborough, Orange County, North Carolina, USA; a heritage building plantation house


== See also ==
Ayr Hill, Virginia, USA
Ayr (disambiguation)

Wyongah is a suburb of the Central Coast region of New South Wales, Australia. It is part of the Central Coast Council local government area.
Wyongah is mostly residential, although there is a small shopping area in the suburb. The area is close to Wyong Hospital and is serviced by Busways route 81, 82 and 83 buses. Routes 81 and 82 run from Lake Haven to Wyong and Tuggerah via Wyongah (and return) while the 83 is a local service from Lake Haven to Wyongah.


== Demographics ==
In the 2016 census the population of Wyongah was 2,020 and remained unchanged in the 2021 census. 


== Notable people ==
Bob Mirovic, boxer


== References ==

HMS Racehorse was a three-funnel, 30-knot torpedo boat destroyer built by Hawthorn Leslie for the Royal Navy. Ordered by the Royal Navy under the 1898–1899 Naval Estimates, she was the eighth ship to carry this name since it was introduced in 1757.  She served in World War I and was sold for breaking in 1920.


== Construction ==
She was laid down on 23 October 1899  at the R.W. Hawthorn Leslie and Company shipyard at Hebburn-on-Tyne and launched on 8 November 1900.  During her builder's trials she made her contract speed of 30 knots.  She was completed and accepted by the Royal Navy in March 1902.


== Service ==
After commissioning she was assigned to the Channel Fleet. She spent her operational career mainly in home waters. In May 1902 she received the officers and men from HMS Mermaid, and was commissioned at Chatham by Commander John Green for service with the Medway Instructional Flotilla. She took part in the fleet review held at Spithead on 16 August 1902 for the coronation of King Edward VII. In 1909 she was assigned to the 2nd Flotilla at Portland under the command of Lieutenant G B Hartford.
On 30 August 1912 the Admiralty directed all destroyer classes were to be designated by letters.  Since her design speed was 30-knots and she had three funnels she was assigned with similar vessels to the C class.  After 30 September 1913, she was known as a C-class destroyer and had the letter ‘C’ painted on the hull below the bridge area and on either the fore or aft funnel.
By July 1914 she was in the 6th Destroyer Flotilla tendered to HMS Attentive based at Dover.  While employed in the 6th Flotilla she performed anti-submarine and counter-mining patrols as well as Dover Barrage defensive patrols. On 28 October 1914 under the command of Lieutenant E P U Pender, she was part of the anti-submarine screen for operations off the Belgian coast.
From 22 August through 19 November 1915, Along with her sisters Mermaid and Greyhound, she provided an anti-submarine screen for several operations off the Belgian coast.
In 1919 she was paid off and laid-up in reserve awaiting disposal. She was sold on 23 March 1920 to M Yates for breaking at Milford Haven. She was awarded the battle honour Belgian Coast 1915 – 16 for her service.


== Pennant numbers ==


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Brassey, T.A. (1902). The Naval Annual 1902. Portsmouth, UK: J. Griffin and Co.
Chesneau, Roger & Kolesnik, Eugene M., eds. (1979). Conway's All The World's Fighting Ships 1860–1905. London: Conway Maritime Press. ISBN 0-85177-133-5.
Colledge, J. J.; Warlow, Ben (2006) [1969]. Ships of the Royal Navy: The Complete Record of All Fighting Ships of the Royal Navy from the 15th Century to the Present (3rd Rev ed.). London: Chatham Publishing. ISBN 978-1-86176-281-8. OCLC 67375475.
Dittmar, F. J. & Colledge, J. J. (1972). British Warships 1914–1919. Shepperton, UK: Ian Allan. ISBN 0-7110-0380-7.
Friedman, Norman (2009). British Destroyers: From Earliest Days to the Second World War. Barnsley, UK: Seaforth Publishing. ISBN 978-1-84832-049-9.
Gardiner, Robert & Gray, Randal, eds. (1985). Conway's All The World's Fighting Ships 1906–1921. London: Conway Maritime Press. ISBN 0-85177-245-5.
Grant, Robert M. (1964). U-Boats Destroyed: the Effect of Anti-Submarine Warfare 1914–1918. London: Putnam.
Jane, Fred T. (1969) [1st. pub. Sampson Low & Marston, London]. Jane's All the World's Fighting Ships 1898. New York: ARCO Publishing Company.
Keyes, Roger (1935). The Naval Memoirs of Admiral of the Fleet Sir Roger Keyes: Volume 2: Scapa Flow to the Dover Straits. Taylor & Francis.
Lyon, David (2001) [1996]. The First Destroyers. London: Caxton Editions. ISBN 1-84067-364-8.
Manning, T. D. (1961). The British Destroyer. London: Putnam & Co. OCLC 6470051.
March, Edgar J. (1966). British Destroyers: A History of Development, 1892–1953; Drawn by Admiralty Permission From Official Records & Returns, Ships' Covers & Building Plans. London: Seeley Service. OCLC 164893555.
McCartney, Innes (2003). Lost Patrols: Submarine Wrecks of the English Channel. Penzance, UK: Periscope Publishing Ltd. ISBN 1-904381-04-9.
Moore, John (1990). Jane's Fighting Ships of World War I. London: Studio Editions. ISBN 1-85170-378-0.

Badger were a British rock band from the early 1970s. The band was founded by keyboardist Tony Kaye after he left Yes, along with bassist and singer David Foster.


== Background ==
David Foster had been in the Warriors with Jon Anderson before Anderson co-founded Yes. Foster later worked with the band on their second album Time and a Word (1970). Kaye had worked on a solo project by Foster that was never released.
The pair found drummer Roy Dyke, formerly of Ashton, Gardner and Dyke, and Dyke suggested guitarist and vocalist Brian Parrish formerly of Parrish & Gurvitz  which later became Frampton's Camel (after Parrish left P&G) on guitar. The new band began rehearsing in September 1972 and signed to Atlantic Records.


== One Live Badger (1973) ==
Badger's first release was the live album, One Live Badger, produced by Jon Anderson and Geoffrey Haslam, and was taken from a show opening for Yes at London's Rainbow Theatre. Five of the songs were co-written by the whole band, with a sixth by Parrish (initially written for Parrish & Gurvitz). The cover art was done by Roger Dean, the artist responsible for many of Yes's album covers, although Kaye left Yes before their partnership with Roger Dean.


=== Track listing ===
Wheel Of Fortune 7:40
Fountain 7:12
Wind Of Change 7:00
River 7:00
The Preacher 3:35
On The Way home 7:10


=== Personnel ===
Tony Kaye; Hammond organ, piano, Minimoog, mellotron
Brian Parrish : guitar, vocals
David Foster : bass guitar, vocals
Roy Dyke; drums


== White Lady (1974) ==
By 1974, the band had been reduced to Kaye and Dyke. They recruited bassist Kim Gardner, who had worked with Dyke in Ashton, Gardner and Dyke. Paul Pilnick, formerly of Stealers Wheel, joined on guitar, as did singer Jackie Lomax.
Lomax proceeded to turn them into the type of R&B/soul band he had used on his solo albums. The band became a vehicle for Lomax's songs and singing. During this period, they released one album, White Lady, on Epic Records, produced by Allen Toussaint. All ten songs were written or co-written by Lomax. Guests on the album included Jeff Beck (contributing a guitar solo to the title track).
However, before the album's release, the band had split into two factions, with Lomax and Gardner leading a short-lived band called White Lady, before Lomax returned to a solo career.
"White Lady" b/w "Don't Pull The Trigger" was released as a single in May 1974. The album was issued in June.


=== Track listing ===
A Dream Of You 4:15
Everybody Nobody 3'26
Listen To Me 4:57
Don't Pull The Trigger 4:06
Just The Way It Goes 4:41
White Lady 4:46
Be With You 3:47
Lord Who Give Me Life 3:04
One More Dream To Hold 4:04
The Hole Thing 6:10


=== Personnel ===
Tony Kaye : keyboards, minimoog, mellotron
Jackie Lomax : vocals, rhythm guitar
Paul Pilnick : lead guitar
Kim Gardner : bass guitar
Roy Dyke : drums


=== Additional Musicians ===
Jeff Beck  lead guitar on "White Lady"
Barry Bailey  slide guitar on "Don't Pull The Trigger", "White Lady", "Be With You" and 	"Lord Who Give Me Life"
Allen Toussaint  horns, congas, piano, organ, background vocals
Carl Blouin  baritone saxophone, flute
Alvin Thomas  tenor saxophone
Lester Caliste  trumpet
John Lango  trombone
Joan Harmon, Mercedes Davis, Teresipa Henry : background vocals
Jessie Smith and Bobby Montgomery : background vocals on "Everybody Nobody" and "One More Dream To Hold"


== See also ==
British rock


== References ==


== External links ==
Badger biography, discography and album reviews, credits & releases at AllMusic.com
Badger discography, album releases & credits at Discogs.com
Badger biography at eMusic
David Foster - Open Road album releases & credits at Discogs.com
Badger - One Live Badger (1973) album credits at Yescography entry

Caringbah is a suburb in Southern Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Caringbah is 24 kilometres (15 mi) south of the Sydney central business district in the local government area of Sutherland Shire.
Caringbah once stretched from Woolooware Bay on the Georges River to Yowie Bay and Burraneer Bay on the Port Hacking estuary. A number of Caringbah localities have been declared as separate suburbs but still share the postcode 2229. These suburbs include Taren Point to the north on the Georges River, and Port Hacking, Lilli Pilli, Dolans Bay and Caringbah South, located on the Port Hacking River to the south.


== History ==

Caringbah is an Aboriginal word from the Kumbainggar language for a pademelon wallaby. The suburb was originally called Highfield, but it is unclear whether this was a position description or whether it was named after an early resident. Caringbah was used from 1911, after the steam trams began operating between Cronulla and Sutherland.
Thomas Holt (1811–88) owned most of the land that stretched from Sutherland to Cronulla in the 1860s. Most of the area around Miranda and Caringbah was used for market gardening from the 1880s. Caringbah was still used for orchards and farming until after World War II. The railway line to Cronulla opened in 1939.


== Commercial area ==
Caringbah features a mixture of residential, commercial and industrial areas. The commercial district is made up mostly of small businesses specialising in professional services. A large commercial and industrial area is also centred on Taren Point Road and surrounding areas. Commercial developments here include many home furnishing retailers such as Nick Scali Furniture, large retailers including Bunnings, as well as home renovation showrooms.
The main shopping centre is located close to Caringbah railway station and is centred on the intersections of President Avenue, The Kingsway and Port Hacking Road South. A small group of shops, known as Caringbah South, is located further south on Port Hacking Road South. Caringbah Library is located on Port Hacking Road South. Another small group of shops is located even further south, close to the border of Lilli Pilli. Caringbah is home to the public district Sutherland Hospital adjacent to Caringbah Ambulance Station and Kareena Private Hospital on Kareena Road.


== Transport ==
Caringbah is a central suburb of the Sutherland Shire, considering some of the main roads intersect here. President Avenue and The Kingsway both run from Sutherland via Miranda in the west, to the popular beachside suburb of Cronulla in the east. Taren Point Road leads north to the Captain Cook Bridge, St George area and further north to the Sydney CBD.
Caringbah railway station is on the Cronulla branch of the Eastern Suburbs & Illawarra Line T4 on the Sydney Trains network.
U-Go Mobility runs buses to Lilli Pilli, South Cronulla, Hurstville, Sutherland, Cronulla and Dolans Bay.


== Demographics ==
According to the 2021 census of Population, there were 12,575 people in Caringbah.

Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people made up 1.6% of the population.
74.3% of people there were born in Australia. The next most common countries of birth were England 3.8%, New Zealand 2.0%, China 1.8%, Philippines 1.0% and India 0.8%.
80.5% of people spoke only English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Mandarin 2.0%, Greek 1.3%, Russian 1.1%, Spanish 1.1% and Cantonese 1.0%.
The most common responses for religion were No Religion 36.7%, Catholic 27.2% and Anglican 14.2%.


== Schools ==
There are three secondary schools and several primary schools in Caringbah.

Caringbah Selective High School, the only academically selective secondary school in the Sutherland Shire.
Endeavour Sports High School, one of seven selective sports secondary schools in NSW offering Targeted Sports Programs for talented athletes.
De La Salle Catholic College Caringbah, 7-12 single-sex secondary school for young men
Our Lady of Fatima Catholic Primary School
Caringbah Public School (located in Caringbah South)
Caringbah North Public School, which fields an opportunity class for students in year's 5&6
Laguna Street Public School
Lilli Pilli Public School


== Sport ==
Caringbah is host to several sporting teams, including:

De La Salle Caringbah - (Rugby League)
Cronulla‑Caringbah Sharks JRLFC - (Rugby League)
Caringbah Sports Cricket Club - (Cricket)
Caringbah Redbacks FC - (Soccer/Football)
Lilli Pilli FC - (Soccer/Football)


== Gallery ==


== Notable people ==
Robbie Maddison, motorcycle racer
Mark Vincent, tenor vocalist
Chad Townsend, football player


== References ==

Rome Township is a township in Faribault County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 172 at the 2000 census.
Rome Township was organized in 1868, and named after Rome, in Italy.


== Geography ==
According to the United States Census Bureau, the township has a total area of 35.7 square miles (92.5 km2), all  land.


== Demographics ==
As of the census of 2000, there were 172 people, 73 households, and 57 families residing in the township. The population density was 4.8 people per square mile (1.9/km2). There were 74 housing units at an average density of 2.1/sq mi (0.8/km2). The racial makeup of the township was 98.26% White, 1.16% Asian, 0.58% from other races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 5.23% of the population.
There were 73 households, out of which 26.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 68.5% were married couples living together, 1.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 21.9% were non-families. 19.2% of all households were made up of individuals, and 6.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.36 and the average family size was 2.68.
In the township the population was spread out, with 19.8% under the age of 18, 9.3% from 18 to 24, 19.2% from 25 to 44, 33.7% from 45 to 64, and 18.0% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 47 years. For every 100 females, there were 132.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 122.6 males.
The median income for a household in the township was $37,500, and the median income for a family was $40,208. Males had a median income of $20,625 versus $25,625 for females. The per capita income for the township was $19,896. About 3.1% of families and 6.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including 8.0% of those under the age of eighteen and none of those 65 or over.


== References ==

A Haunted Turkish Bathhouse (Japanese: 怪猫トルコ風呂, Hepburn: Kaibyō Toruko furo) is a 1975 Japanese erotic horror film directed by Kazuhiko Yamaguchi. More specifically, it belongs to the kaibyō eiga or bakeneko mono subgenre of horror films, in which the 
spirit of a vengeful woman manifests in the form of a "Monster cat" or "ghost cat", as happens in this film.


== Cast ==
Naomi Tani as Yukino
Hideo Murota as Yuzo
Misa Ohara as Mayumi, Yukino's sister
Taiji Tonoyama as Genzō Kakinuma, bathhouse manager
Tomoko Mayama as Utae Kakinuma, Genzō's second wife
Terumi Azuma as Natsuyo Kakinuma, Genzō's daughter
Kōji Fujiyama as Toriyama, bathhouse manager
Sami Suzuki as Saburō, bathhouse manager
Shingo Yamashiro as Young Master


== Reception ==
In 2022, a 2K restoration of the film was released on Blu-ray in Region A by Mondo Macabro.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Uchiyama, Kazuki (2008). 怪奇と幻想への回路: 怪談からJホラーへ (in Japanese). p. 24.


== External links ==
A Haunted Turkish Bathhouse at IMDb

Christopher M. Spence is a retired former Canadian educator, author, and former Canadian football player. He is the former Director of Education of the Toronto District School Board and former Director of Education of the Hamilton-Wentworth District School Board.


== Biography ==
Born in England to Jamaican parents, Spence has lived in Canada since he was three years old and received his early education in Windsor, Ontario. He received a B.A. degree in criminology from Simon Fraser University in 1985. A running back, he was drafted by the BC Lions in the third round of the 1985 CFL draft, but his CFL career was ended in 1988 by an Achilles tendon injury.
Spence received a B.Ed. degree from York University, an M.Ed. degree from the University of Toronto in 1993, and an Ed.D. degree from the University of Toronto's Ontario Institute for Studies in Education in 1996, which was later revoked due to plagiarism.
He became Director of Education for the Hamilton-Wentworth District School Board on September 1, 2004, and served until July 2009, when he became the Director of Education for the Toronto District School Board.


== Plagiarism, resignation and revoking of teaching license ==
On January 9, 2013, Spence apologized for plagiarizing several passages in an op-ed piece he wrote for the Toronto Star on extracurricular activities. The plagiarism was verified by the Star's public editor. Among the plagiarized material was this paragraph lifted from a 1989 opinion piece in The New York Times: "We are challenged through sport to use our minds in guiding our bodies through the dimensions of time and space on the field of play. Learning the skills of sport provides opportunity to experience success." On January 10, 2013, Spence tendered his resignation as director effective immediately after additional incidents of plagiarism in earlier articles and blog entries were uncovered.
Passages from his 1996 Ed.D. dissertation were also revealed to have been copied from other sources without attribution: sentences, paragraphs, whole pages were meticulously edited so as to obscure his plagiarism. On June 20, 2017, the University of Toronto investigated the allegations, found him guilty of academic dishonesty, and rescinded his degree.
On December 20, 2016, the Ontario College of Teachers announced that Spence's teaching license had been revoked as a result of the findings of the investigation.
In 2018, Spence lost his fight to keep his Ed.D. The appeals tribunal stated that the "nature and extent [of plagiarism] found in Spence's thesis is a very serious offence." The matter, however, is not yet settled. His lawyer, Darryl Singer, wrote in an email that Spence intends to seek judicial review of the decision in Ontario divisional court.
Spence successfully appealed the revocation of his teaching licence in 2018 on the grounds that his "'precarious' mental state was not adequately accounted for."  A psychiatric report stated that Spence's ability to function had been affected by "depression and suicidal ideation related to the evaporation of his marriage and career."


== Works ==
Skin I'm in: Racism, Sports and Education (Fernwood Publishing Company, 2000, ISBN 978-1-55266-017-1)
On Time! On Task! On a Mission! (Fernwood Publishing Company, 2002, ISBN 978-1-55266-094-2).


== References ==

The 1986 Montreal Alouettes finished the season in third place in the East Division with a 4–14 record and missed the playoffs. The Montreal Concordes were renamed the Alouettes following the 1985 season to mark the 40th anniversary of the founding of the Alouettes. The Montreal Alouettes were facing severe financial difficulty, having lost close to $15 million between 1982–86, so having the CFL give a fourth place team in one division a playoff spot if its record was better than the third-place finisher in the other division was a disaster. When Calgary got a playoff spot over the Alouettes, the lost revenue for a playoff game further crippled the franchise, contributing to its demise shortly after the start of the following season. General manager Joe Galat left the team prior to the end of the season to take a position with the B.C. Lions  on August 1. President Norm Kimball took over as GM until the end of the season


== Preseason ==


== Regular season ==


=== Standings ===


=== Schedule ===
 


== Roster ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official Site

Kostolac Airfield (Serbian: Аеродром Костолац / Aerodrom Kostolac) (ICAO: LYKT) is situated on the bank of the Danube River, built in 1998 on the power plant's reclaimed former ash yard. It is two kilometres from the Kostolac town centre and also near the town of Požarevac.
Landing at Kostolac Airfield is unique because the way of landing is over the Danube water plane, which is similar to landing on an aircraft carrier.
The airfield is close to the ancient Roman city of Viminacium.


== See also ==
List of airports in Serbia


== External links ==
YU-CAB Bellanca 7GCBC Citabria , January 10, 2003 on LYKT-KOSTOLAC
Galeb G-2 on LYKT Archived 2007-10-10 at the Wayback Machine, Galeb G-2
AVIO - TAXI KOSTOLAC,POŽAREVAC,SERBIA Archived 2011-10-01 at the Wayback Machine

A cast recording by the original Broadway cast of the musical Cats was released on January 26, 1983, by Geffen Records. It was later reissued by Polydor in 1993, and remastered in 2005.
The recording won Best Cast Show Album at the 26th Annual Grammy Awards.


== Development and release ==
The original Broadway cast of Cats, including the understudies, recorded the album in October 1982. Andrew Lloyd Webber flew in from London to oversee the recording, which was estimated to cost as much as $400,000.
The recording was released on January 26, 1983, in two versions: a two-record/disc/cassette complete set, and a one-record/disc/cassette highlights version.


== Track listing ==
All tracks written by T. S. Eliot and Andrew Lloyd Webber, with any additional writers noted.
In the later Polydor reissue of the recording, the third track on disc two is incorrectly listed as containing "The Ballad of Billy McCaw", a duet based on an unpublished poem by Eliot that was used in the original London production. It actually contains an Italian mock aria titled "In Una Tepida Notte", which replaced "The Ballad of Billy McCaw" in the original Broadway run and was incorporated into all other US and UK productions of Cats.
"The Awefull Battle of the Pekes and the Pollicles", a song describing a fight between two tribes of dogs, is not included in this recording. It originally appeared between "Old Deuteronomy" and "The Jellicle Ball" in Act One, then was moved to Act Two to replace "Growltiger's Last Stand" after the latter song was cut from the US and UK productions in 2016.


== Reception ==


=== Critical reception ===
Matthew Murray gave the recording four out of five stars, praising the orchestration and the cast's performance, particularly Betty Buckley's rendition of "Memory". However, he was wary of "the unconvincing Brit[ish] accents and American vocal mannerisms." The recording also received favorable reviews from the Star Tribune and the Times Colonist.


=== Commercial performance ===
The album was certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America on December 5, 1988. According to Playbill, it has sold over 2 million copies and is the 16th-best-selling cast recording in the United States of all time.


=== Accolades ===
The recording won Best Cast Show Album at the 26th Annual Grammy Awards.


== Weekly charts ==


== References ==

Oulad Nacer is a town and rural commune in Fquih Ben Salah Province, Béni Mellal-Khénifra, Morocco. At the time of the 2004 census, the commune had a total population of 26,527 people living in 3918 households.


== References ==

Estado de Occidente (English: Western State; also known as Sonora y Sinaloa) was a Mexican state established in 1824. The constitution was drafted in that year and the government was initially established with its capital at El Fuerte, Sinaloa. The first governor was Juan Miguel Riesgo. The state consisted of modern Sonora and Sinaloa, and also modern Arizona more or less south of the Gila River (although in much of this area the Yaqui, Pima, Apaches, and other native inhabitants at certain times did not recognize the rule of the state).
The constitution was established in 1825 with one of its principles being the making of all inhabitants of the state citizens. This was resented by the Yaqui since they now had to pay taxes, which they had been exempt from before. The Yaqui also considered themselves possessed of sovereignty and territorial rights which were threatened by the state's new constitution.
This led to a new outbreak of war between the Mexicans and the Yaquis (see Yaqui Wars) with Juan Banderas as the leader of the Yaqui forces. As a result of this war the capital of Occidente was moved to Cosalá and then in 1828 to Álamos.
Sonora and Sinaloa were again split into two separate states in 1830.


== One state: Sonora y Sinaloa ==
Under its Constitution of 1824, Sonora y Sinaloa was a single state of the Mexican Republic. The federal constitution used the name "Sonora y Sinaloa." However the state constitution adopted on 31 October 1825 used the name Estado de Occidente. The Sonora y Sinaloa state capital was located at El Fuerte, Sinaloa. The first Governor of Sonora y Sinaloa was the Sonoran Juan Miguel Riesgo.


== Two states: Sonora and Sinaloa ==
On 30 September 1830, due to constant internal disputes, the state was divided into two states: Sonora and Sinaloa. The territory of Sinaloa corresponds to that of the modern-day state of the same name. The territory of Sonora includes all of the modern state of the same name with the exception of the areas that were ceded to the United States during the Mexican Cession and the Gadsden Purchase in 1848 and 1854 respectively.


== Mexican-American War and territory ==
Sonora of the 1820s extended north beyond the present-day United States–Mexico border. Settlements existed only in the extreme south of the current state of Arizona and the northern frontier was not defined. Maps from the period show the northern border above today's international border, as far as either the Gila River or the Colorado River in the Grand Canyon. The Mexican-American War, the 1848 Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and especially the Gadsden Purchase established the present border.


== Sources ==
Spicer, Edward H. Cycles of Conquest. Tucson: University of Arizona Press, 1962.

The City Parks Foundation is an independent nonprofit organization that provides free arts, sports, education, and community-building programs in parks across New York City. Founded in 1989, the Foundation operates in more than 400 parks, recreation centers, and public schools, serving approximately 285,000 New Yorkers each year.
Its major initiatives include SummerStage, a citywide performing arts festival, and CityParks Tennis, one of the largest municipal youth tennis programs in the country. Additional offerings include golf, track and field, senior fitness, and outdoor education programs such as Coastal Classroom, Green Girls, Learning Gardens, and Seeds to Trees.
The City Parks Foundation partners with the New York City Department of Parks & Recreation through initiatives such as Partnerships for Parks, a joint program that works to start, strengthen, and support neighborhood park groups. The initiative provides workshops, small grants, organization development, and problem solving to aid local efforts to revitalize parks and the communities that surround them. According to NYC Parks, the Foundation offers free, park-based programs in arts, sports, and education, reaching over 600,000 children and adults throughout New York City each year.


== Historical events ==
In 2006, the City Parks Foundation introduced a free outdoor dance series in city parks, featuring performances by twelve companies in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Queens. Each event included a 45-minute participatory dance class open to all ages and skill levels, held prior to the performances. The initiative aimed to engage communities by immersing audiences in the language of dance and reflected the foundation's broader mission of “animating the parks” through accessible, hands-on cultural programming.
In 2015, the 22nd edition of the Charlie Parker Jazz Festival featured free outdoor concerts in Harlem and the East Village and included performances by Joe Lovano and Esperanza Spalding. The festival also hosted a public conversation between Rudresh Mahanthappa and Oliver Lake and received support from the Dalio Foundation.
In 2018, the City Parks Foundation's SummerStage festival featured free performances by Big Daddy Kane, Talib Kweli, Pete Rock, and The Lox as part of a lineup celebrating hip-hop’s legacy, with over 100 free shows across the five boroughs in genres including pop, opera, jazz, and dance.
In September 2019, the foundation celebrated its 30th anniversary with a gala in Central Park in September 2019. In the same year, it completed a $5.5 million renovation of the SummerStage venue in Central Park, adding a new stage, canopy, LED screens, upgraded sound and lighting systems, improved seating, and expanded dressing rooms for performers.
In 2020, amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the City Parks Foundation held its annual SummerStage Jubilee as a virtual benefit concert, according to ABC News. The event featured performances by Sting, Norah Jones, Trey Anastasio, Rufus Wainwright, Leslie Odom Jr., and Rosanne Cash, and was streamed across multiple platforms to raise support for the foundation's park-based programs. The concert also highlighted advocacy from public figures such as Billie Jean King, Ryan Seacrest, and Paul Shaffer.
During the 2023 season, SummerStage presented nearly 80 performances in 13 city parks, including sets by Tanya Tucker, Grandmaster Flash, and Monie Love.


== References ==

The Collaborative College for Technology and Leadership (CCTL) is an early college High School program in Iredell County, North Carolina. Founded in 2005, CCTL has been recognized as a school for "Innovation and Excellence," a distinction given to only 16 schools in North Carolina. It received the Apple Distinguished School Award in 2016.
Students graduate from CCTL with an associate degree within five years and have the option of completing the program in 4 or 3 and half years. All credits are transferable to universities in the University of North Carolina system, withstanding that a student has received a grade of "C" or higher in each class to be transferred.
Because CCTL is on the Statesville main campus of Mitchell Community College, the affiliation between the two schools is the strongest among all the early college programs in Iredell County, and CCTL students must adhere to both the early college and Mitchell Community College policies.
One of the notable alumni of the school, is no other than Dakota Wilson. He is the first and only person to be accepted to California Institute of Technology (Caltech). During his school years, Dakota actively participated in 9 clubs including Yearbook, Model UN, Interact Club, Student Events Association, and more. He became the Junior Marshal, and finished the engineering degree in 4 years, while the typical schedule requires 5 years. Dakota was inspired by David Thoreau's Walden Pond, and his goal after finishing Master Degree in Electrical Engineering is to build a cabin in the woods to live off grid. Dakota's worst moment was when he spilled Ms. York's fresh coffee, right after she brought it to a club meeting.


== References ==

Attorney General Conway may refer to:

D. Walter Conway (1898–1956),  Attorney General of South Dakota
George C. Conway (1900–1969), Attorney General of Connecticut
Jack Conway (politician) (born 1969), Attorney General of Kentucky
Joe Conway (Arizona lawyer) (1898–1945),  Attorney General of Arizona


== See also ==
General Conway (disambiguation)

This is a list of notable people related to the University of Wolverhampton and its predecessor institutions, such as Wolverhampton and Staffordshire Technical College, Wolverhampton and Staffordshire College of Technology, Wolverhampton College of Art, and The Polytechnic, Wolverhampton.


== Notable alumni ==

Nando Bodha, Minister of Tourism & Leisure and Minister of Agriculture, Mauritius
Trevor Beattie (advertising executive)
Peter Bebb, special effect artist
Sir Terence Beckett (former director-general, CBI
Vernie Bennett (singer, formerly of Eternal)
Scott Boswell (former professional cricketer)
David Carruthers (former online gambling executive)
Mimi-Isabella Cesar, rhythmic gymnast
Major Peter Cottrell (soldier, author and military historian)
Claire Darke, 161st Mayor of Wolverhampton
Paul Darke, academic, artist and disability rights activist
Tim Dutton, Actor.
Bill Etheridge (UKIP MEP)
Michael John Foster (former Labour MP, Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State at the Department for International Development)
Maggie Gee, novelist
Jonathan Gosling, Circuit Judge (LLB, 1978)
Matt Hayes (television angler)
Chris Heaton-Harris (Conservative MP)
Brian Jenkins (former Labour MP)
Jenny Jones (former Labour MP)
Steven Linares, MP in the Gibraltar Parliament and Minister for Sport, Culture, Heritage & Youth in the Government of Gibraltar
Juhar Mahiruddin (Governor of Sabah, Malaysia, and Chancellor of University Malaysia Sabah)
Mil Millington (author)
Magnus Mills (author)
Mark O'Shea (zoologist and television presenter)
Cornelia Parker (artist/sculptor)
Richard Duncan, author and philanthropist
Julian Peedle-Calloo (television presenter)
Suzi Perry (television presenter and journalist)
Robert Priseman (artist)
Ken Purchase (former Labour MP)
Chauhdry Abdul Rashid, former Lord Mayor of Birmingham and former Chancellor of Birmingham City University
Michael Salu (graphic artist and creative director)
Ged Simmons (television actor)
John Spencer-Barnes (BBC broadcaster)
Gillian Small (University Dean for Research, City University of New York)
Clare Teal (jazz singer and broadcaster)
Andy Thompson (footballer)
Patrick Trollope (editor of UK's first online-only regional newspaper)
Yatindra Nath Varma, former Attorney General of the Government of Mauritius (LLB, 1998)
Sir Charles Wheeler, sculptor, President of the Royal Academy
Annemarie Wright (artist)
David Wright (Labour MP)
Su Keong Siong (苏建祥) a Malaysian lawyer and Ipoh Timor MP.
Warinder Juss (Labour MP)
Sureena Brackenridge (Labour MP)


== Notable academics ==
Roy Ascott, artist
John Buckley, military historian
David Carpanini, artist
Stephen Gill, political scientist
Kimberly Hutchings, Professor of Politics and International Relations
Howard Jacobson, Man Booker Prize-winning British author and journalist (Jacobson's experience formed the basis of his novel Coming from Behind, set at a "fictional" polytechnic in the Midlands.)
Sir Anish Kapoor, sculptor
Steve Molyneux, educational technologist
Moses Murandu, scientist and nurse
Jeff Randall, broadcaster/journalist
Laura Serrant, Professor of Community and Public Health Nursing
Sir Alan Tuckett, Professor of Education and adult education specialist
Peter Waddington, social scientist
Paul Willis, social scientist known for his work in sociology and cultural studies


== References ==

Zohaib Ahmadzai (born 10 February 2002) is an Afghan cricketer. He made his first-class debut for Amo Region in the 2017–18 Ahmad Shah Abdali 4-day Tournament on 25 November 2017. He made his List A debut for Amo Region in the 2018 Ghazi Amanullah Khan Regional One Day Tournament on 10 July 2018. Ahmadzai was a member of Afghanistan's squad for the 2020 Under-19 Cricket World Cup.


== References ==


== External links ==
Zohaib Ahmadzai at Cricinfo

Horňa (Hungarian: Katlanos, Rusyn: Горня) is a village and municipality in the Sobrance District in the Košice Region of east Slovakia.


== History ==
In historical records the village was first mentioned in 1417. Before the establishment of independent Czechoslovakia in 1918, Horňa was part of Ung County within the Kingdom of Hungary. In 1939, it was for a short time part of the Slovak Republic. As a result of the Slovak–Hungarian War of 1939, it was again part of Hungary from 1939 to 1944. On 23 November 1944, the Red Army entered Horňa and it was once again part of Czechoslovakia.


== Geography ==
The municipality lies at an altitude of 141 metres (463 ft) and covers an area of 6.73 km2 (2.60 sq mi) (2025).


== Population ==

It has a population of 318 people (31 December 2025).


=== Ethnicity ===
In year 2021 was  338 people by ethnicity  328 as Slovak,  9 as Not found out,  4 as Rusyn,  1 as Czech,  1 as Ukrainian and  1 as Canadian.
Note on population: The difference values of population numbers in the table "Population statistic" and in the sections "Ethnicity" & "Religion" is caused by the use of various statistical methods.


=== Religion ===
In year 2021 was 338 people by religion  162 from Greek Catholic Church,  149 from Roman Catholic Church,  9 from Eastern Orthodox Church,  9 from None,  7 from Not found out,  1 from Calvinist Church and  1 from Evangelical Church.


== Culture ==
The village has a public library.


== Genealogical resources ==
The records for genealogical research are available at the state archive "Statny Archiv in Presov, Slovakia"

Greek Catholic church records (births/marriages/deaths): 1834–1910 (parish B)


== See also ==
List of municipalities and towns in Slovakia


== References ==


== External links ==
Surnames of living people in Horna

Nithsdale Wanderers Football Club are a Scottish football club based in Sanquhar, Dumfries and Galloway. Their home ground is Lorimer Park and they currently play in the South of Scotland Football League. It was also the name of a previous club from the town, who were in membership of the Scottish Football League from 1923 to 1927.


== History ==


=== Original club ===
Nithsdale Wanderers originally formed in 1897 and enjoyed a measure of local success in their early years. The 1920s would see them achieve their highest level of national prominence. The decade began with them moving to a new ground at Crawick Holm. In the 1923–24 season, they were one of the clubs invited to join the Scottish League's new Third Division. Although this competition would exist only for three seasons and would have terrible economic consequences for many of its clubs, Nithsdale Wanderers were to thrive, albeit briefly, on their newfound status.
In 1924–25, Wanderers won the Third Division championship, clinching the title with an 8–0 victory over Montrose in the final match of the season. Although they finished comfortably mid-table in their début season in the Second Division, the 1926–27 season saw them finish bottom and they had to seek re-election to the league (by this time Division Three was no more). They were unsuccessful and the brief league career of Nithsdale Wanderers was at an end. They continued to compete in local senior competitions, including the Southern Counties League and the South of Scotland League, and occasionally qualified for the Scottish Cup (suffering a 14–0 defeat against Dundee United in the 1930–31 competition).
In 1951, the club dropped down to the junior grades, but continued to struggle, finally going out of existence in 1964.


=== Modern club ===
After a gap of 37 years, the name of Nithsdale Wanderers was revived when the new club successfully applied for membership of the South of Scotland Football League in 2001. Their biggest impact on the competition to date was finishing in second place in the 2006–07 season. As they are only associate members of the SFA, they are only eligible to compete in the Scottish Cup in the event of them winning the league. The team's home colours are blue and white.


== Honours ==


=== Original club ===
Scottish Football League
Division Three champions 1924–25
Scottish Football Combination
Champions 1909–10
Southern Counties Challenge Cup
Winners 1903–04, 1906–07, 1910–11, 1911–12, 1913–14, 1919–20, 1921–22, 1922–23, 1927–28, 1945–46
Potts Cup
Winners 1902–03, 1905–06, 1908–09, 1909–10, 1913–14, 1919–20, 1922–23
Southern Counties Charity Cup
Winners 1910–11, 1912–13
South of Scotland Cup
Winners 1912–13


=== Modern club ===
South of Scotland League
Runners-up: 2006–07
Haig Gordon Memorial Trophy
Winners: 2008–09
Wigtownshire & District FA Tweedie Cup
Winners: 2016–17
Southern Counties FA Alba Cup
Winners: 2021–22, 2023–24


== References ==
South of Scotland League[link removed], Scottish Non-League Online (2006). Retrieved on 28 August 2006

Steve Kelley of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette is a syndicated editorial cartoonist, comic strip creator, comedian, and writer. He has previously served as staff political cartoonist for The San Diego Union / The San Diego Union-Tribune and The New Orleans Times-Picayune. He began work at the Post-Gazette in November 2018.
Kelley is co-creator and writer of the award-winning syndicated comic strip  Dustin which King Features Syndicate distributes to more than 370 newspaper clients and websites.
Born in Richmond, Virginia, Kelley graduated from the Collegiate School, and received an undergraduate degree in English from Dartmouth College in 1981, where he drew cartoons for both the Daily Dartmouth and The Dartmouth Review.


== Career ==
Kelley began his journalism career in 1981 at the San Diego Union Tribune. After two decades, he moved to the New Orleans Times-Picayune in 2002 following an incident at the Union Tribune involving a cartoon he had submitted to his editors, depicting two teenagers wearing baggy low-cut pants that did not completely cover their buttocks.
Kelley and former Florida Today editorial cartoonist Jeff Parker, who also worked on Mother Goose and Grimm and Blondie in the past, created and produce the comic strip Dustin, which debuted in early 2010.  The strip won the National Cartoonists Society Reuben Award for Best Newspaper Comic Strip in 2010 and 2017.
On June 12, 2012, it was reported that Kelley's position at The Times-Picayune would be terminated as part of a large-scale staff reduction at the paper that included terminations for approximately half of the newsroom staff.  Kelley said he expected to continue with Dustin while looking for a new newspaper position.
Kelley was hired by the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette in 2018 to replace cartoonist Rob Rogers, who had been fired after conflicts with the paper's ownership, a decision some regarded as retaliation for Rogers' criticisms of U.S. President Donald Trump.
Early in his career, Kelley began writing and performing comedy at the Improv and The Comedy Store in San Diego a pursuit that led to seven appearances on The Tonight Show, and work as the opening act in major venues for numerous performers including The Gatlin Brothers, Lou Rawls, Dolly Parton, Reba McEntire, and Bernadette Peters.  Kelley performed in showrooms at The Desert Inn and The Riviera in Las Vegas, Harrah's in Reno, Nevada, Trump Plaza in Atlantic City and Carnegie Hall in New York City.


== Awards ==
Kelley won the 2021 National Headliner Award for a portfolio of cartoons on the Coronavirus pandemic. He was a finalist for The Pulitzer Prize in the editorial cartooning category in 1999. His cartoons have also won the 2001 National Headliner Award, the Best of The West competition, the Los Angeles Press Club award, and six first place California Newspaper Publishers Association awards. He won the 2007 National Journalism Awards for Editorial Cartooning.  He served as a 2008 Montgomery Fellow at Dartmouth College and was editor of Pelican Publishing's 2013 edition of Best Editorial Cartoons of the Year.


== References ==


== External links ==
Steve Kelley cartoons archive on editorialcartoons.com
Steve Kelley page on New Orleans Times-Picayune NOLA.com
Interview at Cagle.com (video)

Them's Fightin' Herds is an indie fighting game developed by Mane6 and published by Gameplay Group International. It features a cast of ungulate characters fighting each other to find a champion worthy of gaining a magical key that will protect their world from predators. First released into early access in February 2018, the full release was on April 30, 2020, for Microsoft Windows, followed by Linux on March 25, 2021, and a beta macOS version was added on October 27, 2021. The game was released for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on October 18, 2022.
The project is a spiritual successor to Mane6's earlier, unreleased fighting game Fighting Is Magic, based on the animated television show My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic. Mane6 was a nine-man game development team and part of the adult fandom of the show. Fighting Is Magic featured the six main pony characters from that show. Early versions of this game were released in 2012, drawing attention from both players in the Evolution Championship Series due to the unique moves associated with non-bipedal characters in fighting games, as well as from Hasbro which owned the intellectual property to My Little Pony. After Hasbro sent Mane6 a cease and desist letter, Mane6 discarded the assets tied to the show, while keeping some of the fundamental gameplay factors to create the new title Them's Fightin' Herds.
The creator of My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic, Lauren Faust, offered to help with designing the new characters for the game. Development of the game was completed with crowdfunding through Indiegogo.
A separate effort created by fans not associated with the Mane6 team released their Fighting Is Magic: Tribute Edition of the original Mane6 My Little Pony-inspired game in early 2014. This game was made from various beta assets of the original which Mane6 developed in the first two years, and were later leaked by other parties.


== Gameplay ==
The game uses a four-button fighting system: a button each for light, medium, heavy, and magic attacks, and includes staple fighting game maneuvers such as launchers, pushblocking, and cross-ups.
Currently, there are seven playable characters, with four more purchasable through DLC, all of which have their own unique fighting styles and moves. These fighting styles range from fast and aggressive, to slow and defensive, with all characters having a high emphasis on fighting with combos.
The game supports both local and online multiplayer via both a near-isometric pixel art lobby system, and an automatic matchmaking system. Players who own BlazBlue: Central Fiction, Guilty Gear Xrd Rev 2 or Skullgirls on Steam will unlock special cosmetics for their in-game lobby avatars inspired by characters from those games. There are also offline single-player modes available, including an extensive tutorial plus training mode, an incomplete story mode, and player vs. AI fighting (arcade mode).


== Synopsis ==


=== Setting and characters ===
Them's Fightin' Herds is a fighting game based on sapient four-legged hoofed creatures from the world of Fœnum, which is being threatened by the return of carnivorous beasts known as the Predators. The Predators were locked away in a separate realm, but they have found a way to escape it. To put an end to the threat, selected champions of the various Fœnum races are chosen as "Key Seekers" by their tribes to find the key that will lock the Predators away again. The Key Seekers must face each other in a friendly competition to determine which one will be the Key Keeper who will face the champion of the Predators.
There are six playable characters—Arizona the cow (voiced by Tara Strong), Velvet the reindeer (Tia Ballard), Paprika the alpaca (Marieve Herington), Oleander the unicorn (Alexa Kahn) who can summon a demonic being known as "Fred" (Keith Ferguson), Pom the sheep (Allie Moreno) and Tianhuo the longma (Kay Bess)—each with different fighting move sets and unique movement options such as flight, short hops, double jumps, or air dashes. Jessica Gee voices the game's announcer. A seventh playable character, pirate goat Shanty (Afi Ekulona), was also released as downloadable content due to the crowdfunding campaign reaching its stretch goals; she was later included in the base roster for all versions. Additional characters are planned for release via a season pass, including Arizona's bull father Texas (Patrick Seitz), Velvet's father Stronghoof (Christopher Sabat), Nidra the tapir (Anjali Kunapaneni), and Baihe (Crystal Lee), another longma fighter.


=== Storyline ===
The game's story mode begins with Arizona making her way from the prairie to Reine City, sent on her quest by her parents, as the declared Champion of the Prairie. Along the way, she passes through a system of caves that used to be a salt mine, which are now filled with shadowy predators. In Reine City, Arizona heads to the museum to find some clues about the Prophet's Key. When Velvet shows up and learns that Arizona is the Champion of the Prairie, she challenges Arizona to a fight on the steps in front of the museum. Arizona defeats her, and Velvet's ice sprites carry her away. Desperate to get Arizona out of the city, a citizen gives her his boat tickets and sends her off to the Alpake Highlands. In the Highlands, Arizona climbs up a mountain while fighting off birds of prey. At the top, exhausted, she is rescued by members of the local Alpake tribe. After waking up, she talks to their leader, Adobo, who warns her of the "Terror of the Foggy Mountaintops". Arizona is pursued by a mysterious figure in the fog, but the figure always stays hidden a distance away while laughing. At a clearing in the fog, Arizona examines a stone only to see it rumble; Paprika bursts out of it and proceeds to "fight" Arizona through a series of hugs, kisses, and fourth-wall-breaking stunts. Arizona prevails, leaving Paprika dazed and out cold.
In the Temple of the Ancestors, which Arizona learned about at the Reine City Museum and from Adobo, Arizona fights more predators while solving some puzzles. Finally, she reaches the Hall of the Monolith. Before she can inspect the monolith, Oleander shows up, and like with Velvet, realizes that she and Arizona are rivals. Oleander and Arizona begin fighting, with Fhtng th§ ¿nsp§kbl (or "Fred") helping her out as the battle progresses. Arizona eventually prevails, but Fred knocks her out and rants about how she is ruining his plans. Fred then wakes Oleander up to tell her that she won. While Oleander copies down the inscriptions on the monolith, Fred loots Arizona for all of the items she found along her journey. After the duo leave, Arizona wakes up, severely dazed, and at a loss for what to do next. If the player loses during the third phase of Oleander's fight, the same thing happens, but Fred does not knock Arizona out and talk about how she is ruining his plans.


== Development ==


=== My Little Pony: Fighting Is Magic ===
The My Little Pony: Friendship Is Magic series, while aimed at young girls and their parents, has drawn a large number of adult fans from 15 to 35, typically male, who are often referred to as "bronies". These fans were drawn in by the creativity of Lauren Faust and her team, who wrote the show to appeal across generations. The show's characters, Flash animations, adventure-themed stories, and occasional pop cultural references are considered other draws for the older audience.
Many members of the brony fandom are technology-savvy, a common activity in the fandom being the creation of images of the show's ponies, parodying other commercial works including video games. Fighting Is Magic grew out of a set of images for a hypothetical "Marevel vs. Clopcom" game, parodying the Marvel vs. Capcom fighting game series, created by Anukan, who would later become one of the Mane6 developers. Anukan didn't expect anything to come from these images, but found that at discussion boards, fans were postulating how the various pony characters would translate into fighting games; such as what sorts of moves they would use. One of these users, Nappy, recognized the potential in realizing a complete game, and began the formation of Mane6, including Anukan, Jay Wright, Lucas Ellinghaus, James Workman, and Prominence.
The team decided on using the Fighter Maker 2D game engine, despite having no prior experience with the software. After getting in the basics of having characters hit one another, they discovered that they could get the engine to include wall bounces—the rebounding of a character from walls at the edges of the screen—which according to Ellinghaus, show "the potential for both the game and the team". Much of the development work was spent in trying to achieve certain effects within the Fighter Maker engine, referred to by the team as "taming" the engine.
The game was initially developed as a three button-based fighter, allowing to remain simple to be picked up by players but still offering a variety of combinations of moves, while limiting the amount of animations for the various moves for all characters. The three buttons were designed to mimic the light, medium, and heavy attacks of the Marvel vs. Capcom series. However, the development team also wanted to include an EX system like the one in Street Fighter IV where pressing two attack buttons at the same time executes a special move. Within the initial game engine, Fighter Maker, the game would only register two simultaneous button presses if they were within the same processing time frame, which would hinder gameplay. To work around this, the team designed a fourth button, (a "magic" button as described by Mane6), used to have the character remain still while doing a specific activity that would build up an EX meter, such as Twilight Sparkle reading a book. With a full EX meter, the player would then be able to execute special moves with any of the other three buttons.

Mane6 focused initial efforts to build up the six main characters from the show as the initial fighters, but have stated that an expanded roster of up to seventeen characters would be in their planned final version. The game was to be downloadable and free-to-play, with local and online multiplayer modes as well as a story mode. Character-specific moves were to be present in-game. The individual movesets for each character are based not only on how they are represented in the show, but also considering other characters in fighting games to fill out their fighting style. Twilight Sparkle, in the show, is a unicorn with powerful magic abilities, which the Mane6 matched with Akuma from the Street Fighter series, while Rainbow Dash, an aggressive pegasus, was compared with Magneto's playstyle in the Marvel vs. Capcom series. Fluttershy, a timid character within the show, does not fight directly, but instead her animal companions fight for her, creating a playstyle similar to Eddie from Guilty Gear XX or Phoenix Wright in Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3. In another case, Pinkie Pie, a hyperactive pony who is shown to have some fourth wall reality-warping powers in the show, allowed the team to experiment with a wide range of haphazard moves. They had designed one move where Pinkie would use her "party cannon" to launch a present at the opponent, and then she would then pop out of the present at close range. As they were developing the game, Persona 4 Arena was released, in which the character of Kuma/Teddie had a similar move. They realized they were thinking along the same lines as the professional developers and continue to work more of Pinkie's moves based on Teddie's moveset. While these other characters helped to inspire additional moves, the Mane6 team made sure to stay true to the characterization on the show and not introduce moves that would be outside of this, such as Fluttershy herself making an aggressive attack.
After each character's moveset was tested and refined based on testing feedback, the team then began to animate each character, first by creating Flash-based animations and then transforming these to sprites needed for Fighter Maker. The team noted that the pony shape of the characters proved an additional challenge both visually and for the engine. With most fighting games, players can easily identify heads, arms, and legs, and know where to watch for attacks, but the same was not true for the ponies. They proceeded to add effects like sparks on the attacking character and opponent responses to help players recognize attacks. In terms of the engine, the hitboxes for the ponies were more horizontal than vertical as would be the case with humanoid fighter characters, and they had to work around this in the engine to accurately model attacks. Additionally the more horizontal shapes of the characters limited how much of the fighting stage space they could use; they overcame this within the game by using a 3/4ths view of the characters that shortened their on-screen lengths giving them more space to work with.


==== Release ====
The team had released early pre-alpha gameplay footage as they added the main six characters to the game. Though the team had expected the game to be popular within the brony community, the game has been noticed by other fighting game players through these videos. The team was invited to demonstrate their game at the July 2012 Evolution Championship Series by one of its founders, Joey "MrWizard" Cuellar, as part of other indie fighting games. For the 2013 Evolution series, the game was one of seventeen nominees for the "Player's Choice" slot in the main competition.
Though the game is an unlicensed work of Hasbro's My Little Pony franchise, the Mane6 team did not receive any cease and desist notices from the company until February 8, 2013. Like much of the rest of the Internet phenomenon surrounding Friendship is Magic, Hasbro had been mostly tolerant; allowing episodes of the show along with parodies and mashups of the works to be redistributed freely across the Internet. This helped to create a participatory culture that has drawn a broader audience to the show, even going as far as to say they have no intentions of ever filing takedown notices as they see this as "Free Advertising and spreading". The Mane6 had taken no monetary donations for their work and planned to keep the game as a free release. Further, while a fighting game, they did not show any characters getting wounded, or show any signs of blood, as to keep with the generally nonviolent theme of the show. The Mane6 had stated that even if the project was shut down, they had learned much from the effort to apply towards their next project with original characters, which they were already planning.


==== Cease and desist from Hasbro ====
An unfinished version of the game was leaked to 4chan's /mlp/ board on August 2, 2012. Mane6 responded by terminating their QA program and pushing the project into a closed development cycle. In February 2013, shortly after the 2013 EVO voting selection, Hasbro's lawyers sent a cease and desist letter to the Mane6 team; this was only a few weeks before they had expected to be completed with the initial version of their game. They obeyed the cease and desist letter, halting all production and removing all assets from their website, while Mane6 attempted to enter legal negotiations with Hasbro. Artist Elosande resigned from the team. The team also sought legal advice to fight the cease and desist but were told it would be an expensive battle. Mane6 were unable to come to agreements with Hasbro and started to redo the game using new artwork assets. They subsequently renamed the new game to simply Fighting Is Magic. On February 28, 2014, a fandom news site, Equestria Daily, announced the release of a "finished" version of the game. Using a combination of the Mane6 team's unfinished build and fan-made contributions, this version features all main six characters of the television show as playable, as well as new stages and multiplayer capability. Now known as Fighting is Magic: Tribute Edition, the game is openly available for download and play.


=== Reworking as Them's Fightin' Herds ===

With no legal option to continue to use the My Little Pony characters, the Mane6 team opted to keep most of their work to date and reworked the game with new art assets, retaining the theme of four-legged creatures. Faust herself supported the fan effort, understanding the "irony" of a fighting game based on a show about friendship, but appreciated that "the original version of the game was that they made the Ponies fight in character" without resorting to typical fighter elements like weapons, and praising the animations that the team has already built. On hearing of the cease and desist, Faust contacted the team, offering to provide some of her time to create new characters for their game, and her official involvement with the project was announced at the end of February. The team accepted her offer; developer Jay Wright noted that "you can't copyright Lauren's distinctive style", and that while the game will still be unique, it will likely still carry the spirit of My Little Pony. According to Faust, she was happy to provide "my little part to help Mane6 finish up this game in a way that stays true to the spirit of the original—but in a way that can freely be shared". Faust also helped to develop the story and setting for the game. She noted that the common story concept for fighting games, where the characters would be fighting to be the champions of a tourney, was overused, and instead designed one around where the individual characters have already been determined to be champions from their individual tribes, and now are fighting each other for the key, each believing it is their destiny to obtain and use the key against the Predators.
The characters in the game remain four-legged as with the My Little Pony version, which Mane6 developer Francisco Copado believes is a first for a fighting game. Silhouette teaser images released by the Mane6 team showed a trio of four-legged non-pony characters as preliminary designs for the new game, while as of April 2013, three additional characters were still in development.
The Mane6 team also gained contributions from the Lab Zero Games studio, the same developers of Skullgirls. Lab Zero has also developed a fighting game engine, named the Z-Engine, from scratch for their own title. While others had contacted Lab Zero to use the Z-Engine for other fighting games, the studio was drawn to the work of the Mane6 who, according to Lab Zero's Mike Zaimont, had shown a high degree of competence of what made a good fighting game compared to other efforts, and wanted to support their work. Lab Zero used an Indiegogo crowd-sourcing effort to gain development funds, and having readily cleared their initial target of $150,000 and with additional stretch goals of new characters and content for their game, included a $725,000 target that would allow Mane6 to use and distribute the Z-Engine for free as part of their new game, and challenged the brony community to help towards that via online donation. The goal was met on the final day of the funding campaign, which was on March 27, 2013. The Z-engine allowed the Mane6 team to expand beyond the limitations of Fighter Maker, though they kept some of the conventions learned from working with Fighter Maker, such as the use of 3/4rd views to reduce the horizontal lengths of the four-legged characters. The Skullgirls engine also brought in the open-source networking code GGPO ("Good Game Peace Out"), designed specifically for overcoming known limitations of playing fighting games online. GGPO uses a system called "rollback" that delays the game's response to the user's input slightly, masked by character animations, coupled with predictive behavior to appear to give zero-latency gameplay for players against online opponents.
In August 2015, the Mane6 revealed the revamped title, Them's Fightin' Herds, which was suggested by Craig McCracken. They announced that they would be starting an Indiegogo campaign starting on September 21, 2015, seeking to raise US$436,000 to complete the game. The funding was successful with a final funding amount of US$586,346, meeting the stretch goals to offer the game on OS X and Linux computers alongside Microsoft Windows, and the introduction of a seventh playable character, a goat, stages and stories based on that character.
By early February 2018, the Mane6 affirmed the game's early access release on February 22, 2018. They had gained support from Humble Bundle for publishing; in turn, Humble Bundle had reached out to publishers of other fighting game developers to bring themed assets into Them's Fightin' Herds, including Guilty Gear Xrd, BlazBlue: Central Fiction, and Skullgirls. On December 1, 2021, the partnership between Mane6 and Humble Bundle had ended. On January 20, 2022, Mane6 announced that they were purchased by and entered a publishing deal with Maximum Games.


=== Post-release ===
The game was released on April 30, 2020. Only the first chapter of the game's story mode was available at launch, though all six characters were fully playable in the game's competitive modes. Mane6 intended to continue to support the game and add additional chapters to the story mode following release. Art and gameplay for Shanty was showcased by Mane6 around August 2020, though they had no planned date when the character would be released. Shanty was released on March 25, 2021, alongside the Linux version of the game. A macOS port was released on October 27, 2021. On May 25, 2022, it was announced that the game would be released for home consoles later in the year. On August 18, 2022, it was announced that versions for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S would be made available on October 18.
On November 22, 2023, Mane6 and Modus announced that, following the release of the last season pass character in 2024, the game would be ending active development, with the remaining story chapters being canceled. The announcement was met with backlash from the player community, as the story mode had been part of the planned development since its crowd-funding plans. The Mane6 development team was fired from the project shortly thereafter. The final DLC characters, Baihe and Nidra, were released in February 2024 but the update contained numerous bugs, which also prompted a backlash from players and fans.
In September 2025, the publishing rights to the game, alongside Diesel Legacy: The Brazen Age (another fighting game developed and published by Maximum Games/Modus), were acquired by Gameplay Group International, a brand new publishing label with a specific aim to acquire and continue development of "cancelled" games. Founder and chief creative office Victor Lugo has stated that "Our initial slate of fighting games is especially close to my heart", though Gameplay Group has yet to provide any information on what they intend to do with the game.


== Reception ==
Them's Fightin' Herds received "generally favorable" reviews according to review aggregator website Metacritic.
IGN gave the game a score of 8 out of 10.
One of the challenges that the Mane6 developers have stated with getting people to play the game is the stigma of its basis on the My Little Pony foundations and association with the brony fandom; however, Mane6 president Aaron Stavely said that once they were been able to get fighting game players to try out the game, they have generally seen them impressed with the game and walk away with positive feedback.
Them's Fightin' Herds was supposed to be one of four games used for the open tournaments in the revamped online version of Evo 2020, which was cancelled. Both Them's Fightin' Herds and Skullgirls were used for the online events due to their capable forms of online play enabled by GGPO, along with Mortal Kombat 11 and Killer Instinct, which were both developed with internal versions of rollback netcodes.
During the 24th Annual D.I.C.E. Awards, the Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences nominated Them's Fightin' Herds for "Fighting Game of the Year", which was ultimately awarded to Mortal Kombat 11 Ultimate.


== See also ==
Equestria at War
Legends of Equestria


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Them's Fightin' Herds at IMDb
Official developer Twitter feed

Epilobium coloratum, known by the common names purpleleaf willowherb and cinnamon willow-herb, is a species of flowering plant in the genus Epilobium of the willowherb family Onagraceae. This species is native to the Midwest and Eastern United States (excluding Mississippi and Florida), as well as the Canadian provinces of Ontario, Québec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Newfoundland. It is also native to the Dominican Republic and Haiti.


== Description ==
Epilobium coloratum is a perennial, herbaceous plant that can reach 1.2 meters (4 feet) in height. Small flowers with 4 notched petals of white or light pink rest each at the end of a single short stalk and generally bloom August to October. Leaves are simple and opposite in arrangement with two leaves per node along the stem.


== Distribution and habitat ==
Epilobium coloratum is native to and present in the Midwest and Eastern United States (excluding Mississippi and Florida), as well as the Canadian provinces of Ontario, Québec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, and Newfoundland. It is also native to the Dominican Republic and Haiti.
Habitats include poorly-drained prairies; moist, wooded areas; bogs; marshes; and, edges of rivers and ponds. Occasional flooding is tolerated.


== Conservation ==
Epilobium coloratum is classified as LC (Least Concern) on the IUCN Red List. NatureServe lists it as Secure (G5) worldwide and Critically Imperiled (S1) in Alabama, Oklahoma, Newfoundland, and Prince Edward Island; Imperiled (S2) in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia; and, Vulnerable (S3) in North Carolina, North Dakota, and Québec.


== References ==

Brain Donors is a 1992 American slapstick comedy film directed by Dennis Dugan and released by Paramount Pictures, loosely based on the Marx Brothers comedies A Night at the Opera and A Day at the Races (the first two films the Marx Brothers made for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer after leaving Paramount). The film co-stars John Turturro, Mel Smith, and Bob Nelson in the approximations of the Groucho, Chico, and Harpo roles, with Nancy Marchand in the Margaret Dumont dowager role. It was executive produced by David and Jerry Zucker, through their Zucker Brothers Productions.


== Plot ==

After the death of tycoon and philanthropist Oscar Winterhaven Oglethorpe, a ballet company is founded in his name by his widow, Lillian. Ambulance-chasing attorney Roland T. Flakfizer competes against Oglethorpe's former attorney, Edmund Lazlo, to be director of the company. Lazlo is chosen for the position after signing the greatest ballet dancer in the world, Roberto "The Great” Volare. Flakfizer — with assistance from his two associates Rocco and Jacques — earns a spot as co-director by wooing the wealthy widow and by signing the company's leading ballerina and her dancer boyfriend Alan Grant. The ensuing struggle between Flakfizer and Lazlo leads to comic hijinks, including a badger game involving a chorus girl and an opening-night performance ludicrously sabotaged by Flakfizer and his cohorts.


== Cast ==
John Turturro as Roland T. Flakfizer
Bob Nelson as Jacques
Mel Smith as Rocco Melonchek
George de la Peña as Roberto “the Great” Volare
John Savident as Edmund Lazlo
Nancy Marchand as Lillian Oglethorpe
Juli Donald as Lisa LeBaron
Spike Alexander as Alan Grant
Teri Copley as Tina
Minor roles include Eddie Griffin as a messenger, Franklin Cover as a doctor, Thomas Mikal Ford and Matthew Sussman as cops, Katherine LaNasa as a dancer, Billy Beck as a janitor, Sam Krachmalnick as a conductor, and Max Alexander as a stage manager.


== Production ==


=== Development ===
Dennis Dugan began work on the film shortly after screening a rough cut of his film Problem Child for David Zucker. Soon after meeting to compare notes, Zucker sent Dugan a script by Pat Proft, and work began on the project in earnest. Initially, Proft was to be a co-producer and frequent Zucker brothers collaborator Jim Abrahams was to be a co-writer, but Abrahams was ultimately not credited as a screenwriter.


=== Casting ===
Dugan originally sought to cast Adam Sandler in the film, but the studio did not agree to it; however, this established a rapport with Sandler that led to Dugan directing several films with him. Dugan also stated that he unsuccessfully pursued Chris Farley and Jim Carrey for the lead role of Roland T. Flakfizer.


=== Filming ===
Principal photography began on December 10, 1990, and the film was largely shot in and around Los Angeles: Greystone Mansion (interiors); Los Angeles Herald-Examiner building,  Echo Park Lake (exteriors), and the Warner Grand Theatre. Portions of the film were shot in Pasadena, California, at the Arden Villa (also called the Morton Estate) (exteriors), which was also a location where the Marx Brothers' Duck Soup was shot.
The project was filmed under the title Lame Ducks, but Paramount later changed the title to Brain Donors because it was "catchier", according to sources consulted by the Los Angeles Times.
The film's extended closing setpiece is a pastiche of Tchaikovsky ballet pieces, most notably Swan Lake (parodied in the film as Tears of the Swan). The choreographer for the film's dance scenes was John Carrafa. Costuming was handled by Robert Turturice. Mickey Gilbert was the stunt coordinator; Max Balchowsky and Ric Roman Waugh (credited as Rick Waugh) were among the stuntmen involved in production. The opening credits and closing scene of the film are claymation sequences designed by Will Vinton. The film is scored by Ira Newborn; Mark Mothersbaugh contributed the main and end titles and additional music.


== Release ==
Initially scheduled for release on July 26, 1991, the film was held back from distribution and the release date was not rescheduled. Multiple news reports noted the imminent departure of David and Jerry Zucker, whose contract with Paramount expired in August 1991, as a likely reason. According to co-star Bob Nelson, Paramount was bitter about the Zucker brothers' departure for Columbia Pictures and said, "Why should we promote their career?" He recalled that Brain Donors had been scheduled for a major marketing campaign worthy of a blockbuster summertime comedy, with the studio assigning 18 publicists to the film. After the studio's decision to dump the film, the marketing staff was cut back to only one publicist. "Paramount spent $20 million on [the production], so I figured it was going to be a nice, big release," said Nelson. "Paramount just kind of threw it out there and it flattened out real quick, because they didn't advertise the thing." John Turturro was also frustrated with the project, as reported by the Chicago Tribune, and declined to promote it.
After being shelved for nine months, Brain Donors finally opened in theaters on April 17, 1992. The film was not screened in advance for critics, "an eerie sign that something is afoot." Brain Donors received a very limited release; the studio booked it into only 523 American theaters, and newspaper ads refrained from mentioning the critics' positive reviews.
The advertising invited comparisons to The Three Stooges instead of the Marx Brothers. "This is a Marx Brothers movie through and through", wrote syndicated columnist Joe Baltake. "So what happened? Why is this amiable movie being given a quick sell as a Three Stooges comedy? My hunch is that either the Marx estate objected to the homage or else someone at Paramount figured out that young moviegoers (the only moviegoers who count) don't know who the Marx Brothers are but do know about Moe, Larry, and Curly. Hence the deception. I considered calling Paramount to find out what gives, but frankly. I knew I wouldn't get a straight answer."


== Reception ==
Reviews of the film were mixed. Positive reviewers included Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle, who thought that the film was "an audacious attempt actually to make them like they used to - with no apologies, no nostalgia. It's no masterpiece, but neither was every Marx Brothers movie." In her review for The New York Times, Janet Maslin wrote, "Brain Donors will stop at very little to get its laughs, and Mr. Turturro has just the right silliness for the occasion."  A positive review in the South Florida Sun-Sentinel noted, "It doesn't have one believable, well-rounded character, it doesn't appeal to our nobler emotions, and it doesn't have anything politically correct to say about any important social problems. These seeming faults, however, are exactly the qualities that make it the most hilarious film yet this year."
Other reviews were less enthusiastic, especially in comparison to the original Marx Brothers films and to the prior films on which the Zucker brothers had worked. Richard Harrington in his review for The Washington Post wrote, "It's all very busy, and in Zucker style there seem to be 10 jokes per minute, but most fly fast and fall flat." Pamela Bruce, writing for the Austin Chronicle, believed the film was too derivative of the Marx Brothers and the Three Stooges, and thought the claymation sequences that bookend the film were more interesting than the actual movie itself. The Los Angeles Daily News described it as "Impudent and manic, yes, in the best Marxian tradition. But it is desperate in its scattered shots at any lame thing for a possible laugh, where the Marxes were always cool and -- for the most part -- surreally inspired when it came to stringing nonsense together." Malcolm Johnson of the Hartford Courant called it a "sometimes clever but ultimately exhausting farce" and noted perplexedly that its title had nothing to do with its subject matter. Variety gave a negative review, remarking, "The title Brain Donors sounds like a horror film and for those expecting a comedy, it is." Entertainment Weekly called it "an almost total failure" and thought "the cheesy sets and breathless pacing give the film the feel of a made-for-TV movie on amphetamines."
A 2005 reevaluation of screenwriter Pat Proft's work wrote approvingly of Brain Donors, remarking, "as a throwback to the Marx/Ritz Brothers ideal of Hellzapoppin' humor, it tried to recapture the bygone days of slapstick and satire, and actually did a terrific job at both."
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 50% of 10 critics' reviews are positive. Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 44 out of 100, based on 8 critics, indicating "mixed or average" reviews.


== References ==


== External links ==
Brain Donors - tcmdb at Turner Classic Movies
Brain Donors at Rotten Tomatoes 
Brain Donors at Box Office Mojo 
Brain Donors at IMDb 
The Marx Brothers Council Podcast tribute to "Brian Donors" with guests David Zucker and Pat Proft

Tropidodynerus is a Palearctic and Indomalayan genus of potter wasps.


== References ==

Vecht, J.v.d. & J.M. Carpenter. 1990. A Catalogue of the genera of the Vespidae (Hymenoptera). Zoologische Verhandelingen 260: 3 - 62.

Pennsylvania Route 240 (PA 240) is an 8.5-mile-long (13.7 km) state highway located in Indiana and Cambria counties in Pennsylvania.  The western terminus is at PA 286 in Commodore.  The eastern terminus is at U.S. Route 219 (US 219) near Cherry Tree.


== Route description ==

PA 240 begins at an intersection with PA 286 in Green Township, Indiana County, heading southeast on a two-lane undivided road. The route heads through wooded areas and crosses a R.J. Corman Railroad line at-grade, curving east into a mix of farmland and woodland with some homes. The road heads through open farmland and turns southeast, passing through the residential community of Cookport. PA 240 turns northeast into more rural areas of farms and woods with some residences, heading east again. Farther east, the route comes to an intersection with PA 580 in the community of Uniontown. Past this intersection, the road heads into wooded areas with some homes. The route enters Susquehanna Township in Cambria County and becomes Peg Run Road, turning northeast and east through more forested areas of residences. PA 240 crosses the West Branch Susquehanna River and comes to its eastern terminus at an intersection with US 219.


== Major intersections ==


== See also ==
 U.S. Roads portal
 Pennsylvania portal


== References ==


== External links ==

Pennsylvania Highways: PA 240

Celine Borge (born 5 August 1998) is a Norwegian professional golfer who joined the Ladies European Tour in 2018, and the LPGA Tour in 2023. She won the 2022 Tuscaloosa Toyota Classic on the Epson Tour.


== Amateur career ==
Borge played for the National Team and appeared in several European Team Championships. She won the Irish Girls U18 Open Stroke Play Championship in 2016, four strokes ahead of Cloe Frankish and Linn Grant in joint second.


== Professional career ==
In 2017, still a teenager, Borge finished in the top-25 at the 2017 Lalla Aicha Tour School, to earn Ladies European Tour membership for 2018. She finished 53rd in the Order of Merit and 5th in the Rookie of the Year rankings.
Borge joined the Symetra Tour in 2019, where she made 10 cuts in 21 events and recorded a season-best T9 at The CDPHP Open.
She won the 2020 Norwegian National Golf Championship and was awarded the Kongepokal. She finished third at the 2021 Island Resort Championship.
In 2022, Borge won the Tuscaloosa Toyota Classic and was runner-up at the Guardian Championship to end the season sixth on the Epson Tour money list, earning LPGA Tour membership for the 2023.
On her LPGA Tour debut at the 2023 LPGA Drive On Championship, Borge was in contention after a 9-under 63 in the third round, and finished tied 14th.
Borge opened with two rounds of 69 to sit at tied 2nd at the halfway point of the 2023 Women's PGA Championship, before finishing the tournament in tied 39th after rounds of 74 and 75.
Her best finish in a LPGA Tour event is third place at the Dow Great Lakes Bay Invitational, teamed with Polly Mack, in July 2023.


== Amateur wins ==
2014 Norgescupfinale
2015 Norgescupfinale
2016 Irish Girls U18 Open Stroke Play Championship, Norgescup 2, Titleist Tour 4, Titleist Tour 7
Source:


== Professional wins (2) ==


=== Epson Tour wins (1) ===


=== Other wins (1) ===
2020 Norwegian National Golf Championship


== Results in LPGA majors ==

CUT = missed the half-way cut
T = tied


== Team appearances ==
Amateur

Duke of York Young Champions Trophy: (representing Norway): 2015, 2016
World Junior Girls Championship: (representing Norway): 2016
European Girls' Team Championship: (representing Norway): 2015, 2016
European Ladies' Team Championship: (representing Norway): 2017
Source:


== References ==


== External links ==
Celine Borge at the LPGA Tour official site
Celine Borge at the Ladies European Tour official site
Celine Borge at the Women's World Golf Rankings official site
Celine Borge at Olympics.com 
Celine Borge at the Paris 2024 Summer Olympics
Celine Borge at Team Norway  (in Norwegian)
Celine Borge on Instagram

We Are Not Children (French: Nous ne sommes plus des enfants) is a 1934 French comedy film directed by Augusto Genina and starring Gaby Morlay, Claude Dauphin and Jean Wall.


== Cast ==
Gaby Morlay as Roberte
Claude Dauphin as Jean Servin
Jean Wall as Roger, l'ami
Pierre Larquey as M. Breton
Léon Arvel
Marcelle Monthil
Pauline Carton
Yvonne Drines
Madeleine Guitty
Lucienne Le Marchand
Nina Myral
Henry Houry


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Frank Burke. A Companion to Italian Cinema. John Wiley & Sons, 2017.


== External links ==
We Are Not Children at IMDb

Tournefortia stenosepala is a species of flowering plant in the family Boraginaceae. It is endemic to Ecuador.  Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical dry shrubland. It is threatened by habitat loss.


== References ==

Abdul Rahman Al-Hanaqtah (1963 – 15 February 2016) was a Jordanian politician. He served as member of the House of Representatives in the 15th (2007–2010) and 16th Parliament (2010–2013). He was a member for a Muslim seat in the First District of Tafilah Governorate.
In 2012 he became rapporteur on the parliamentary commission investigation into alleged corruption in the Socio-Economic Transformation Plan.


== References ==

Suriyan Srikan (Thai: สุริยัน ศรีกัน; born May 30, 1969), known professionally as Cherry Sor.Wanich (Thai: เชอรี่ ส.วานิช), is a Thai former professional Muay Thai fighter. He is a former Lumpinee Stadium Super Featherweight Champion who was famous in the 1980s and 1990s. Nicknamed the "Black Shark", he was especially known for his relentless pressure, clinch, and knees.


== Biography and career ==
Cherry started Muay Thai at the age of 12 fighting for various camps until the age of 17 when he joined the Sor wanich gym in Chonburi, he would spend the rest of his career there.
He was a popular fighter of the Bangkok circuit with purses going as high as 250,000 THB.
At his peak was 4 time Lumpinee Stadium Super Featherweight (130 lbs) champion.
After his retirement Cherry spent time in Macau working as a bodyguard.


== Titles and accomplishments ==
Omnoi Stadium
1988 Tiger Power XD-3 Tournament Winner
Lumpinee Stadium
1989 Lumpinee Stadium Super Featherweight (130 lbs) Champion
Three successful title defenses
Awards
1989 Sports Writers Association of Thailand Fight of the Year (vs Jaroenthong Kiatbanchong)


== Fight record ==


== References ==

The following include various records set by major league baseball umpires. Leagues are abbreviated as follows:

AA – American Association, 1882–1891
AL – American League, 1901–1999
FL – Federal League, 1914–1915
ML – Major League Baseball, 2000–present (AL and NL umpiring staffs were merged in 2000)
NL – National League, 1876–1999
PL – Players' League, 1890


== Regular season ==
In the regular season charts, umpires who are active entering the 2025 season are indicated in boldface; members of the Baseball Hall of Fame are indicated in italics.


=== Total games ===
The following umpires have officiated in at least 3,000 major league games through the 2024 season. Although the totals reflect all games umpired, the years indicate only those seasons in which each individual was employed as a league umpire, omitting seasons in which they may have acted as an emergency substitute during their playing career.

Joe West – 5,460 (NL, 1976–1999; ML, 2002–2021)
Bill Klem – 5,373 (NL, 1905–1941)
Bruce Froemming – 5,163 (NL, 1971–1999; ML, 2000–2007)
Gerry Davis – 4,849 (NL, 1982–1999; ML, 2000–2021)
Tommy Connolly – 4,769 (NL, 1898–1900; AL, 1901–1932)
Doug Harvey – 4,674 (NL, 1962–1992)
Joe Brinkman – 4,505 (AL, 1972–1999; ML, 2000–2006)
Harry Wendelstedt – 4,500 (NL, 1966–1998)
Derryl Cousins – 4,496 (AL, 1979–1999; ML, 2000–2012)
Bill McGowan – 4,424 (AL, 1925–1954)
Mike Reilly – 4,491 (AL, 1977–1999; ML, 2000–2010)
Jerry Crawford – 4,371 (NL, 1976–1999; ML, 2000–2010)
Ed Montague – 4,369 (NL, 1974, 1976–1999; ML, 2000–2009)
Larry Barnett – 4,290 (AL, 1969–1999)
Dana DeMuth – 4,283 (NL, 1983–1999; ML, 2000–2019)
Tim McClelland – 4,236 (AL, 1981–1999; ML, 2000–2013)
Al Barlick – 4,231 (NL, 1940–1943, 1946–1955, 1958–1971)
Bob Emslie – 4,228 (AA, 1890; NL, 1891–1924)
Bill Dinneen – 4,218 (AL, 1909–1937)
Tim Welke – 4,216 (AL, 1983–1999; ML, 2000–2015)
Cy Rigler – 4,144 (NL, 1906–1922, 1924–1935)
Bill Summers – 4,121 (AL, 1933–1959)
Larry McCoy – 4,024 (AL, 1970–1999)
Hank O'Day – 3,986 (NL, 1895–1911, 1913, 1915–1927)
Dave Phillips – 3,934 (AL, 1971–1999; ML, 2001–2002)
Bob Davidson – 3,908 (NL, 1982–1999; ML, 2005–2016)
Jim Evans – 3,897 (AL, 1971–1999)
Dale Scott – 3,897 (AL, 1985–1999; ML, 2000–2017)
Nestor Chylak – 3,857 (AL, 1954–1978)
Angel Hernandez – 3,839 (NL, 1991–1999, ML, 2000–2024)
Lee Weyer – 3,827 (NL, 1961–1988)
Don Denkinger – 3,824 (AL, 1969–1998)
Jim Honochick – 3,815 (AL, 1949–1973)
Mike Winters – 3,810 (NL, 1988–1999, ML 2000–2019)
Tom Gorman – 3,803 (NL, 1951–1977)
Augie Donatelli – 3,775 (NL, 1950–1973)
Frank Pulli – 3,774 (NL, 1972–1999)
Terry Tata – 3,743 (NL, 1973–1999)
Randy Marsh – 3,707 (NL, 1981–1999; ML, 2000–2009)
Tom Hallion – 3,645 (NL, 1985–1999; ML 2005–2022)
Jerry Layne – 3,639 (NL, 1989–1999; ML, 2000–2024)
Bob Engel – 3,630 (NL, 1965–1990)
John Kibler – 3,630 (NL, 1963–1989)
Jocko Conlan – 3,618 (NL, 1941–1965)
Larry Napp – 3,608 (AL, 1951–1974)
Hank Soar – 3,595 (AL, 1950–1975, 1977–1978)
John Hirschbeck – 3,589 (AL, 1983–1999; ML, 2000–2007, 2009–2011, 2013–2016)
Gary Cederstrom – 3,579 (AL, 1989–1999; ML, 2000–2019)
Ed Vargo – 3,555 (NL, 1960–1983)
Beans Reardon – 3,522 (NL, 1926–1949)
Jim McKean – 3,514 (AL, 1974–1999; ML, 2000–2001)
Larry Vanover – 3,470 (NL, 1991, 1993–1999; ML, 2002–2024)
Brian O'Nora – 3,459 (AL, 1992–1999; ML, 2000–2019, 2021–present)
Billy Williams – 3,432 (NL, 1963–1987)
Brian Gorman – 3,430 (NL, 1991–1999; ML 2000–2021)
Ted Barrett - 3,400 (AL, 1994–1999; ML 2000–2022)
Rich Garcia – 3,398 (AL, 1975–1999)
Babe Pinelli – 3,398 (NL, 1935–1956)
John McSherry – 3,396 (NL, 1971–1995)
Rick Reed – 3,391 (AL, 1979–1999; ML, 2000–2009)
Al Clark – 3,390 (AL, 1976–1999; ML, 2000–2001)
Eddie Rommel – 3,364 (AL, 1938–1959)
Tim Tschida – 3,358 (AL, 1985–1999; ML, 2000–2012)
Ernie Quigley – 3,350 (NL, 1913–1938)
Johnny Stevens – 3,345 (AL, 1948–1971, 1973, 1975)
George Hildebrand – 3,331 (AL, 1913–1934)
Brick Owens – 3,325 (NL, 1908, 1912–1913; AL, 1916–1937)
Billy Evans – 3,323 (AL, 1906–1927)
Jerry Meals – 3,303 (NL, 1992–1999; ML, 2000–2022)
Bill Miller – 3,300 (AL, 1997–1999; ML, 2000–present)
Jeff Kellogg – 3,276 (NL, 1991–1999; ML, 2000–2019)
C. B. Bucknor – 3,271 (NL, 1996–1999; ML, 2000–present)
Gary Darling – 3,270 (NL, 1986–1999; ML, 2002–2013)
Jim Joyce – 3,268 (AL, 1987–1999; ML 2000–2016)
Greg Kosc – 3,256 (AL, 1976–1999)
Ed Sudol – 3,247 (NL, 1957–1977)
Larry Goetz – 3,223 (NL, 1936–1956)
Laz Díaz – 3,218 (AL, 1995, 1997–1999; ML, 2000–present)
Lee Ballanfant – 3,214 (NL, 1936–1957)
Red Flaherty – 3,207 (AL, 1953–1973)
Bill Stewart – 3,199 (NL, 1933–1954)
Paul Runge – 3,196 (NL, 1973–1997)
Doug Eddings – 3,191 (AL, 1998–1999; ML, 2000–present)
Charley Moran – 3,184 (NL, 1918–1939)
Marvin Hudson – 3,166 (NL, 1998–1999; ML, 2000–present)
Frank Umont – 3,147 (AL, 1954–1973)
Joe Paparella – 3,143 (AL, 1946–1965)
Jeff Nelson – 3,142 (NL, 1997–1999; ML, 2000–2023)
Fieldin Culbreth – 3,140 (AL, 1993–1999; ML, 2000–2019, 2021)
Dale Ford – 3,137 (AL, 1975–1999)
Shag Crawford – 3,121 (NL, 1956–1975)
Phil Cuzzi – 3,121 (NL, 1991–1993, 1999; ML, 2000–2019, 2021–2025)

)
Durwood Merrill – 3,121 (AL, 1976–1999)
Dan Iassogna – 3,108 (AL, 1999; ML, 2000–present)
Chris Guccione – 3,099 (ML, 2000–present)
Paul Pryor – 3,094 (NL, 1961–1981)
Charlie Berry – 3,080 (AL, 1942–1962)
Bill Haller – 3,068 (AL, 1961, 1963–1982)
Hunter Wendelstedt – 3,065 (NL, 1998–1999; ML, 2000–present)
John Shulock – 3,050 (AL, 1979–1999; ML, 2000–2002)
George Moriarty – 3,047 (AL, 1917–1926, 1929–1940)
Jerry Neudecker – 3,025 (AL, 1966–1985)
Marty Springstead – 3,010 (AL, 1966–1985)
Mark Wegner – 3,009 (NL, 1998–1999; ML, 2000–present)


=== Home plate ===
The following umpires have acted as home plate umpire, or umpire-in-chief, for at least 1,000 major league games through the 2024 season. 

Bill Klem – 3,546 (NL, 1905–1941)
Hank O'Day – 2,710 (NL, 1895–1911, 1913, 1915–1927)
Cy Rigler – 2,473 (NL, 1906–1922, 1924–1935)
Bob Emslie – 2,357 (AA, 1890; NL, 1891–1924)
Tommy Connolly – 2,318 (NL, 1898–1900; AL, 1901–1932)
Bill Dinneen – 1,930 (AL, 1909–1937)
Silk O'Loughlin – 1,816 (AL, 1902–1918)
Billy Evans – 1,757 (AL, 1906–1927)
Bill McGowan – 1,646 (AL, 1925–1954)
Ernie Quigley – 1,514 (NL, 1913–1938)
Brick Owens – 1,446 (NL, 1908, 1912–1913; AL, 1916–1937)
Jack Sheridan – 1,439 (PL, 1890; NL, 1892–1893, 1896–1897; AL, 1901–1914)
Joe West – 1,391 (NL, 1976–1999; ML, 2002–2021)
Bill Summers – 1,367 (AL, 1933–1959)
Tom Lynch – 1,309 (NL, 1888–1899, 1902)
Charley Moran – 1,306 (NL, 1918–1939)
George Hildebrand – 1,305 (AL, 1913–1934)
Bruce Froemming – 1,303 (NL, 1971–1999; ML, 2000–2007)
Tim Hurst – 1,285 (NL, 1891–1898, 1900, 1903–1904; AL, 1905–1909)
Beans Reardon – 1,260 (NL, 1926–1949)
Jim Johnstone – 1,245 (AL, 1902; NL, 1903–1912; FL, 1915)
George Moriarty – 1,242 (AL, 1917–1926, 1929–1940)
Gerry Davis – 1,211 (NL, 1982–1999; ML, 2000–2019, 2021)
Al Barlick – 1,201 (NL, 1940–1943, 1946–1955, 1958–1971)
Doug Harvey – 1,189 (NL, 1962–1992)
Dick Nallin – 1,159 (AL, 1915–1932)
Derryl Cousins – 1,137 (AL, 1979–1999; ML, 2000–2012)
Joe Brinkman – 1,135 (AL, 1972–1999; ML, 2000–2006)
Mike Reilly – 1,127 (AL, 1977–1999; ML, 2000–2010)
Harry Wendelstedt – 1,125 (NL, 1966–1998)
Ed Montague – 1,099 (NL, 1974, 1976–1999; ML, 2000–2009)
Larry Barnett – 1,090 (AL, 1969–1999)
Babe Pinelli – 1,087 (NL, 1935–1956)
Jerry Crawford – 1,086 (NL, 1976–1999; ML, 2000–2010)
Dana DeMuth – 1,082 (NL, 1983–1999; ML, 2000–2017, 2019)
Jocko Conlan – 1,075 (NL, 1941–1965)
Tim McClelland – 1,076 (AL, 1981–1999; ML, 2000–2013)
Tim Welke – 1,070 (AL, 1983–1999; ML, 2000–2015)
Bill Stewart – 1,050 (NL, 1933–1954)
John Gaffney – 1,038 (NL, 1884–1887, 1891–1894, 1898–1900; AA, 1888–1889; PL, 1890)
Eddie Rommel – 1,029 (AL, 1938–1959)
Larry McCoy – 1,016 (AL, 1970–1999)
Bob Davidson – 1,008 (NL, 1982–1999; ML, 2005–2016)
Larry Goetz – 1,006 (NL, 1936–1956)


=== Ejections ===
The following umpires have ejected at least 75 individuals (players/managers/coaches) in their careers up through the 2024 season. 

Bill Klem – 358 (NL, 1905–1941)
Cy Rigler – 286 (NL, 1906–1935)
Hank O'Day – 237 (NL, 1895–1911, 1913, 1915–1927)
Tommy Connolly – 203 (NL, 1898–1900; AL, 1901–1932)
Joe West – 196 (NL, 1976–1999; ML, 2002–2021)
Lord Byron  – 196 (NL, 1913–1919)
Jim Johnstone – 195 (AL, 1902; NL, 1903–1912; FL, 1915)
Ernie Quigley – 192 (NL, 1913–1938)
Silk O'Loughlin – 190 (AL, 1902–1918)
Bob Davidson – 173 (NL, 1982–1999; ML, 2005–2016)
Bob Emslie – 152 (NL, 1891–1924)
Jocko Conlan – 135 (NL, 1941–1965)
Bruce Froemming – 125 (NL, 1971–1999; ML, 2000–2007)
Augie Donatelli – 124 (NL, 1950–1973)
Derryl Cousins – 122 (AL, 1979–1999; ML, 2000–2012)
Billy Evans – 121 (AL, 1906–1927)
Frank Dascoli – 119 (NL, 1948–1961)
Bill Stewart – 117 (NL, 1933–1954)
Jack Sheridan – 114 (PL, 1890; NL 1892–1914)
George Barr – 112 (NL, 1931–1949)
Gary Darling – 112 (NL, 1986–1999; ML, 2002–2013)
Eddie Hurley – 110 (AL, 1947–1965)
Marty Foster – 110 (AL, 1996–1999; ML, 2000–2022)
Rich Garcia – 109 (AL, 1975–1999)
Mal Eason – 108 (NL, 1910–1917)
Brick Owens – 108 (NL, 1908, 1912–1913; AL, 1916–1937)
Harry Wendelstedt – 108 (NL, 1966–1998)
Mike Winters – 107 (NL, 1990–1999; ML, 2000–2019)
Joe Brinkman – 105 (AL, 1973–1999; ML, 2000–2006)
Doug Eddings – 105 (AL, 1998–1999; ML, 2000–present)
Hunter Wendelstedt – 104 (NL, 1998–1999; ML, 2000–present)
Frank Secory – 104 (NL, 1952–1970)
Durwood Merrill – 103 (AL, 1977–1999)
Jerry Layne – 103 (NL, 1989–1999; ML, 2000–2024)
Charley Moran – 102 (NL, 1918–1939)
Lou Jorda – 102 (NL, 1927–1931, 1940–1952)
Larry Goetz – 102 (NL, 1936–1956)
Tom Hallion – 102 (NL, 1985–1999; ML, 2005–2022)
Bill Welke – 102 (AL, 1999; ML, 2000–2022)
George Magerkurth – 101 (NL, 1929–1947)
Larry Barnett – 101 (AL, 1969–1999)
Bill McGowan – 99 (AL, 1925–1954)
Phil Cuzzi – 99 (NL, 1991–1993, 1999; ML, 2000–2019, 2021–present)
Cy Pfirman – 98 (NL, 1922–1936)
John Hirschbeck – 98 (AL, 1983–1999; ML, 2000–2016)
Angel Hernandez – 98 (NL, 1991–1999; ML, 2000–2024)
Shag Crawford – 97 (NL 1954–1975)
Al Barlick – 96 (NL, 1940–1943, 1946–1955, 1958–1971)
Greg Kosc – 96 (AL, 1976–1999)
Jerry Crawford – 96 (NL, 1976–1999; ML, 2000–2010)
Dale Scott – 92 (AL, 1986–1999; ML, 2000–2017)
Greg Gibson – 92 (NL, 1997–1999; ML, 2000–2019, 2021–2022)
Dick Nallin – 91 (AL, 1915–1932)
Dale Ford – 90 (AL, 1975–1999)
Gerry Davis – 90 (NL, 1982–1999; ML, 2000–2019, 2021)
Tim Timmons – 90 (NL, 1999; ML, 2000–2021)
Bill Hohn – 89 (NL, 1989–1999; ML, 2000–2011)
Dan Iassogna – 89 (AL, 1999; NL, 1999; ML, 2000–present)
Dave Phillips – 88 (AL, 1971–1999; ML, 2000–2002)
George Hildebrand – 86 (AL, 1913–1934)
Tim Tschida – 86 (AL, 1985–1999; ML, 2000–2012)
Larry Napp – 85 (AL, 19,51–1974)
Larry Vanover – 84 (NL, 1991, 1993–1999; ML, 2002–2024)
Bill Dinneen – 83 (AL, 1907, 1909–1937)
Stan Landes – 83 (NL, 1955–1972)
John Kibler – 83 (NL, 1963–1989)
Eric Gregg – 81 (NL, 1976–1991, 1993–1999)
Ken Kaiser – 81 (AL, 1977–1999)
Tim McClelland – 81 (AL, 1981–1999; ML, 2000–2013)
Mike Everitt – 81 (AL, 1996–1999; ML, 2000–2019)
Bill Summers – 80 (AL, 1933–1959)
Artie Gore – 79 (NL, 1947–1956)
Terry Tata – 79 (NL, 1973–1999)
John Shulock – 79 (AL, 1979–1999; ML, 2000–2002)
Lee Ballanfant – 78 (NL, 1936–1957)
Jim Quick – 78 (NL, 1974, 1976–1998)
Sam Holbrook – 78 (AL, 1996; NL, 1997–1999; ML, 2002–2013, 2015–2019, 2021)
Mark Wegner – 78 (NL, 1998–1999; ML, 2000–present)
Ed Vargo – 77 (NL, 1960–1983)
Jeff Nelson – 77 (NL, 1997–1999; ML, 2000–2023)
Al Clark – 76 (AL, 1976–1999; ML, 2000–2001)
Alfonso Marquez – 76 (NL, 1999; ML, 2000–present)
Ziggy Sears – 75 (NL, 1934–1945)
Drew Coble – 75 (AL, 1982–1999)
Rob Drake – 75 (NL, 1999; ML, 2000–present)


== Postseason ==
The current Major League Baseball postseason consists of the Wild Card Series, the Division Series, the League Championship Series, and the World Series. In the postseason charts, crew chiefs are denoted by a † following the year. The position of crew chief was not as clearly established in the early years of the 20th century; for the purpose of this list, the crew chief for early World Series is defined as the home plate umpire for Game 1. Umpires who are active entering the 2025 season are indicated in bold face; members of the Baseball Hall of Fame are indicated in italics.


=== World Series ===
The World Series is the culminating best-of-seven championship series of major league baseball, and has been played since 1903, with the exception of 1904 and 1994. It is played between the National League and American League champions. Throughout World Series history, the position of crew chief usually alternated between umpires of the American League and National League until the two leagues umpire staffs merged in 2000.
Most World Series

18 – Bill Klem – 1908, 1909, 1911†, 1912†, 1913†, 1914, 1915†, 1917, 1918, 1920†, 1922†, 1924, 1926, 1929†, 1931†, 1932, 1934, 1940†
10 – Hank O'Day – 1903†, 1905, 1907†, 1908, 1910, 1916, 1918†, 1920, 1923, 1926
10 – Cy Rigler – 1910, 1912, 1913, 1915, 1917, 1919†, 1921†, 1925†, 1928, 1930
8 – Tommy Connolly – 1903, 1908, 1910†, 1911, 1913, 1916†, 1920, 1924†
8 – Bill Dinneen – 1911, 1914†, 1916, 1920, 1924, 1926†, 1929, 1932†
8 – Bill McGowan – 1928, 1931, 1935, 1939†, 1941†, 1944, 1947†, 1950
8 – Bill Summers – 1936, 1939, 1942, 1945†, 1948, 1951†, 1955†, 1959†
7 – Al Barlick – 1946, 1950, 1951, 1954†, 1958†, 1962†, 1967
6 – Billy Evans – 1909, 1912, 1915, 1917, 1919, 1923†
6 – Ernie Quigley – 1916, 1919, 1921, 1924, 1927†, 1935
6 – Babe Pinelli – 1939, 1941, 1947, 1948, 1952†, 1956†
6 – Jim Honochick – 1952, 1955, 1960, 1962, 1968, 1972
6 – Ed Montague – 1986, 1991, 1997†, 2000†, 2004†, 2007†
6 – Joe West – 1992, 1997, 2005†, 2009, 2012, 2016
6 – Gerry Davis – 1996, 1999, 2004, 2009†, 2012†, 2017†
Most World Series games

104 – Bill Klem
62 – Cy Rigler
57 – Hank O'Day
47 – Bill Summers
45 – Tommy Connolly
45 – Bill Dinneen
43 – Bill McGowan
42 – Al Barlick
42 – Jim Honochick


=== League Championship Series ===
A League Championship Series has been played in each league from 1969 to the present, excluding 1994, and ultimately determines the participants of the World Series. Originally a best-of-five series, it was expanded to best-of-seven in 1985. Below are umpires who have participated in at least seven League Championship Series:

12 – Jerry Crawford – NL: 1980, 1983, 1985, 1990, 1993, 1995, 1996, 1999, 2001†, 2003†; AL: 2005†, 2006†
11 – Gerry Davis – NL: 1990, 1992, 1995, 1998, 2001, 2005, 2013†, 2014†, 2018†; AL: 2000, 2010†
10 – Bruce Froemming – 1973, 1977, 1980, 1982, 1985, 1989, 1991, 1993†, 1997†, 2000† (all NL)
10 – Joe West – NL: 1981, 1986, 1988, 1993, 1996; AL: 2003, 2004, 2013†, 2014†, 2018†
10 – Ted Barrett  – AL: 2005, 2020; NL: 2008, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2013, 2015†, 2016, 2022†
9 – Doug Harvey – 1970, 1972, 1976, 1980, 1983, 1984, 1986†, 1989†, 1991† (all NL)
9 – Paul Runge – 1977, 1981, 1982, 1984, 1985, 1988, 1990, 1995†, 1996† (all NL)
9 – Mike Reilly – AL: 1983, 1987, 1991, 1996, 1997, 2006; NL: 2001, 2003, 2008†
9 – Tim McClelland – AL: 1988, 1995, 1999†, 2003†, 2008†, 2009†; NL: 2001, 2005†, 2007†
9 – Randy Marsh – NL: 1989, 1992, 1995, 2002†, 2009†; AL: 2000, 2004†, 2005, 2007†
9 – Jeff Nelson – NL: 2002, 2010; AL: 2004, 2011, 2012, 2015, 2016, 2019†, 2020†
9 – Bill Miller – AL: 2009, 2018, 2021†; NL: 2011, 2012, 2014, 2015, 2019†, 2024†
8 – John McSherry – 1974, 1978, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1988, 1990, 1992†; (all NL)
8 – Angel Hernandez – AL: 2000, 2003, 2008, 2010; NL: 2001, 2004, 2007, 2016
8 – Dan Iassogna – NL: 2010, 2020, 2023†; AL: 2013, 2014, 2015, 2021, 2024†
7 – Harry Wendelstedt – 1970, 1972, 1977, 1981, 1982, 1988†, 1990† (all NL)
7 – Larry Barnett – 1972, 1976, 1979†, 1982†, 1986†, 1991†, 1996† (all AL)
7 – Jim Evans – 1975, 1979, 1983, 1985, 1990, 1993†, 1998† (all AL)
7 – Terry Tata – 1976, 1980, 1983†, 1985, 1989, 1993, 1998† (all NL)
7 – Ed Montague – NL: 1979, 1987, 1992, 1996, 1999†; AL: 2001†, 2002†
7 – Derryl Cousins – AL: 1985, 1989, 1995, 2003, 2006, 2008; NL: 2010†
7 – Tim Welke – AL: 1991, 1998, 2001, 2011†; NL: 2002, 2004†, 2006†
7 – Brian Gorman – AL: 2002, 2007, 2008, 2010, 2014, 2016†; NL: 2018
7 – Fieldin Culbreth – AL: 2000, 2009, 2010, 2011; NL: 2003, 2006, 2019
7 – Mike Everitt – AL: 2002, 2016, 2019; NL: 2003, 2008, 2011, 2013
Most League Championship Series games (umpires with at least 35 games are listed)

64 – Jerry Crawford
64 – Gerry Davis
60 – Joe West
54 – Ted Barrett
52 – Bruce Froemming
50 – Tim McClelland
47 – Randy Marsh
46 – Mike Reilly
45 – Bill Miller
43 – Paul Runge
42 – Angel Hernandez
41 – Derryl Cousins
41 – Tim Welke
41 – Brian Gorman
41 – Dan Iassogna
40 – Ed Montague
40 – Fieldin Culbreth
39 – John McSherry
38 – Doug Harvey
37 – Mike Everitt
36 – Larry Barnett


=== Division Series ===
Since 1995 (with one preliminary instance in 1981), the teams participating in the League Championship Series have been determined through four Division Series, with two series per league. All have been best-of-five series. Listed below are umpires who have participated in at least nine Division Series: 

13 – Gerry Davis – NL: 1996, 1999, 2004, 2006†, 2008, 2009†, 2012†, 2012†, 2015†; AL: 2002†, 2003, 2007, 2011†, 2017†
12 – Dale Scott – AL: 1995, 1997, 1998, 2005, 2011†, 2015†; NL: 2001, 2003, 2004†, 2007†, 2008†, 2014†
12 – Ted Barrett – NL: 2000, 2002, 2006, 2018†, 2019†; 2021†; AL: 2001, 2003, 2007, 2011,  2014† 2017†
12 – Angel Hernandez – NL: 1997, 1998, 2002, 2005, 2009, 2011, 2020, 2021; AL: 2012, 2015, 2017, 2018
12 – Ron Kulpa – AL: 2001, 2007, 2008, 2015, 2020, 2021; NL: 2002, 2006, 2009, 2011, 2016, 2017
12 – Alfonso Márquez – NL: 2001, 2011, 2012,  2018, 2019, 2020, 2021†; AL: 2002, 2005, 2006, 2015, 2023†
11 – Dana DeMuth –  NL: 1996, 1997, 1999, 2008†, 2009†, 2010†, 2015†; AL: 2001†, 2012†, 2013†, 2017†
11 – Jerry Layne – NL: 1995, 1998, 2002, 2005, 2010, 2011†, 2013†, 2014, 2017†; AL: 2001, 2018†
11 – Mike Winters – NL: 1998†, 1999†, 2001, 2006, 2010, 2014†, 2015; AL: 2000, 2002, 2013, 2018†
11 – Mark Wegner – NL: 2003, 2008, 2010, 2012, 2020†; AL: 2004, 2006, 2009, 2013, 2017, 2019†
11 – Bill Miller – NL: 2002, 2003, 2013, 2017, 2020†, 2023†; AL: 2005, 2008, 2010, 2016†,  2022†
10 – Brian Gorman – NL: 1997, 1999†, 2000, 2001, 2003, 2006; AL: 2004, 2009, 2011, 2012†
10 – Gary Darling – NL: 1995, 1997, 1998, 2002; AL: 2003, 2005†, 2007†, 2008, 2010, 2013†
10 – Jim Joyce – AL: 1995, 1998†, 1999†, 2002, 2003, 2009; NL: 2001, 2008, 2012, 2013
10 – John Hirschbeck – AL: 1995, 1998, 1999, 2005†; NL: 2001, 2003†, 2006†, 2010†, 2013†, 2016†
10 – Eric Cooper – AL: 2003, 2008, 2009, 2011, 2012, 2018, 2019; NL: 2005, 2006, 2014
10 – Tom Hallion – NL: 1996, 1997, 2008, 2012, 2014, 2016, 2018, 2019; AL: 2013, 2021†
10 – Greg Gibson – AL: 2001, 2003, 2009, 2010, 2011; NL: 2004, 2006, 2007, 2015, 2021
9 – Bruce Froemming – NL: 1981, 1995, 1996, 1998, 1999, 2001†, 2002†, 2003†; AL: 2007†
9 – Tim Tschida – AL: 1996, 1997, 1998, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009†; NL: 2001, 2002
9 – Jeff Kellogg – NL: 1998, 2000, 2003, 2007, 2011, 2016†; AL: 2008, 2010, 2014†
9 – Paul Emmel – NL: 2002, 2008, 2010, 2012; AL: 2003, 2006, 2009, 2013, 2016
9 – Mike Everitt – NL: 2001, 2007, 2009; AL: 2004, 2005, 2006, 2012, 2015, 2017
9 – Gary Cederstrom – NL: 2000, 2003, 2005, 2010, 2011, 2015†, 2018†; AL: 2004, 2019†
9 – Jerry Meals – NL: 1999, 2009, 2011, 2014; AL: 2004, 2005, 2010, 2019, 2020†
9 – Mark Carlson –  AL: 2005, 2011, 2012, 2020†, 2024†; NL: 2007, 2015, 2022†, 2023†
Most Division Series games (umpires with at least 35 games are listed)

53 – Gerry Davis
52 – Ron Kulpa
50 – Alfonso Márquez
48 – Angel Hernandez
47 - Ted Barrett
45 – Jerry Layne
45 – Mike Winters
44 – Dana DeMuth
43 – Dale Scott
42 – Jim Joyce
41 – Tom Hallion
41 – Bill Miller
40 – Eric Cooper
40 – Brian Gorman
40 – Greg Gibson
40 – Mark Wegner
39 – Gary Darling
39 – Jerry Meals
37 – Bruce Froemming
36 – Jeff Kellogg
35 – John Hirschbeck
35 – Mike Everitt
35 – Gary Cederstrom
35 – Tim Welke


=== Wild Card Series ===
In 2012, the Wild Card Game was introduced as a single playoff game that would determine which wild card teams from each league would participate in the Division Series. Due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, a best-of-three series was instituted. A similar format was made permanent for the 2022 postseason. Listed below are umpires who have participated in at least five Wild Card events:

7 – Bill Miller – AL: 2012, 2014, 2015, 2019†, 2024†; NL: 2018†, 2020†
6 – Ted Barrett – 2012, 2013, 2015†, 2016, 2020†, 2022† (all AL)
6 – Chris Guccione – AL: 2012, 2019; NL: 2017, 2018, 2020, 2022
6  – Jeff Nelson – NL: 2012, 2015, 2016, 2019†, 2022†; AL: 2020†
5 – James Hoye – AL: 2014, 2021; NL: 2018, 2020, 2023
5 – Dan Iassogna – NL: 2013, 2020†, 2024†; AL: 2014, 2023†
5 – Jordan Baker – NL: 2017, 2023; AL: 2020, 2021, 2024
5 – Alan Porter – AL: 2018; NL: 2020, 2021, 2023†, 2024†
5 – Mark Wegner – NL: 2014, 2018, 2020, 2024; AL: 2023
5 – David Rackley – AL: 2016, 2020, 2024; NL: 2017, 2019
Most Wild Card games

10 – Bill Miller
9 – Ted Barrett
9 – Chris Guccione
9 – Alan Porter
8 – Jeff Nelson
8 – James Hoye
8 – Jordan Baker
8 – Dan Iassogna
8 – Mark Wegner
7 – David Rackley


=== Total postseason ===
Most games (umpires with 90 or more postseason games are listed)

151 – Gerry Davis
138 – Ted Barrett
132 – Joe West
124 – Bill Miller
118 – Alfonso Marquez
111 – Bruce Froemming
111 – Jerry Crawford
105 – Jeff Nelson
104 – Bill Klem
104 – Gary Cederstrom
103 – Mike Winters
101 – Dana DeMuth
101 – Angel Hernandez
99 – Jeff Kellogg
99 – Ed Montague
98 – Tim Welke
96 – Brian Gorman
94 – Tim McClelland
94 – John Hirschbeck
94 – Dan Iassogna
91 – Dale Scott


== All-Star Games ==
The home plate umpire for each All-Star Game is denoted by a † following the year. There were two All-Star Games each year from 1959 to 1962; different umpiring crews were used for the games in each year except 1960 (for this list, the 1960 umpires are each counted once). For all games through the first 1961 contest and again in 1966, the umpires changed positions halfway through the game; both plate umpires are noted in the applicable years.

7 – Al Barlick – 1942, 1949†, 1952†, 1955†, 1959† (first game), 1966†, 1970†
7 – Doug Harvey – 1963, 1964, 1971, 1977, 1982†, 1987, 1992†
7 – Bill Summers – 1936†, 1941†, 1946†, 1949†, 1952†, 1955†, 1959† (second game)
6 – Jocko Conlan – 1943, 1947†, 1950, 1953†, 1958†, 1962† (second game)
6 – Eddie Rommel – 1939, 1943†, 1946, 1950, 1954†, 1958†
6 – Frank Secory – 1955, 1958, 1961 (second game), 1964, 1967, 1970
5 – Charlie Berry – 1944, 1948†, 1952, 1956†, 1959 (second game)
5 – Nestor Chylak – 1957, 1960 (†second game), 1964, 1973†, 1978
5 – Johnny Stevens – 1950, 1953, 1957†, 1960, 1965†


== See also ==
List of Major League Baseball umpires (disambiguation)
Umpire (baseball)


== References ==

The Naro Moru River starts on Mount Kenya and flows down to the west, through Nyeri County, Kenya, into the Ewaso Ng'iro River. The North and South Naro Moru Rivers are fed by the Teleki Tarn, Lewis Glacier, Tyndall Tarn and Glacier, Hut Tarn and Darwin Glacier at the peaks of Mount Kenya. They join at 2,810 m (9,200 ft) above sea level. The Naro Moru River flows for around 50 km (31 mi), through Naro Moru town, until it reaches the Ewaso Ngiro River. The catchment area of the Naro Moru River is around 83 km2.


== References ==

Khatanga Airport (IATA: HTG, ICAO: UOHH) is an airport in Krasnoyarsk Krai, Russia located 1 kilometre (0.62 mi) southeast of Khatanga.  It is a major airfield servicing medium-sized airliners.  Interceptor aircraft were based here in the 1970s, and the airfield may have been home to deployments from Bratsk.  Today it serves as a hub for North Pole tourist expeditions via Sredny Ostrov; however, the Arctic regions still remain sensitive military zones and Khatanga is the first stop requiring entry permission from Federal Security Service border guards.
One of its uses is as a diversion airport if a twin-engine airliner experiences engine problems while flying over Siberia; however, the airport is only equipped for landings during good weather.


== Airlines and destinations ==


== See also ==

List of airports in Russia


== References ==
RussianAirFields.com

Ginger Kerrick is an American physicist at NASA's Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center. She is the first Hispanic female to be flight director at NASA.


== Education ==
Kerrick graduated second in her class from Hanks High School in El Paso, Texas, and was named El Paso Female Athlete of the Year. She started her college degree at the University of Texas at El Paso, where she walked onto their women's basketball team. During the first game of the season, she blew out her knee, ending her basketball career. She then transferred to Texas Tech University to get her Bachelor of Science and a Master of Science in physics. Her 1993 master's thesis was entitled Infrared deep level transient spectroscopy.


== Career ==
Kerrick was a summer intern at NASA in 1991, which led to first a co-op position and then full-time employment as a materials research engineer with NASA in May, 1994.  Kerrick interviewed for the astronaut program, but was disqualified for kidney stones. She became the first non-astronaut Capsule Communicator (Capcom), first Russian-training-integration instructor, and the first Hispanic female NASA flight director in 2005. She served as flight director with NASA's Lyndon B. Johnson Space Center from 2005 to 2012.  There, she created plans for scenarios of astronauts in space which assisted ISS and shuttle operations, making her a dual-certified flight director. She currently is the division chief of the Flight Integration Division in FOD (Flight Operations Directorate) since August 2016. Kerrick is a member of the  American Physical Society (APS).
In November 2021 Kerrick decided to quit her engagement at NASA and moved to Barrios Technology, LTD in Houston, Texas where she took over the role as Chief Strategy Officer.


== References ==

Pauw (Dutch for "peacock"), de Pauw or DePauw are variants of a Dutch or Flemish surname and may refer to:


== Institutions ==
DePauw University, Greencastle, Indiana, named for Washington C. DePauw


== People ==
Pauw
Adriaan Pauw (1585–1653), Dutch Grand Pensionary of Holland
Jacques Pauw, South African investigative journalist
Michiel Pauw (1590–1640), Mayor of Amsterdam and a director of the Dutch West India Company
Pieter Pauw (1564–1617), Dutch botanist and anatomist
Vera Pauw (born 1963), Dutch football coach and former player
De Pauw / DePauw
Ayrton De Pauw (born 1998), Belgian racing cyclist
Bart De Pauw (born 1968), Belgian television producer, comedian and scriptwriter
Cornelius de Pauw (1739–1799), Dutch scholar at the court of Frederick the Great of Prussia
Gommar DePauw (1918–2005), Belgian traditionalist Catholic priest
Johanna de Paauw (1933–1989), Dutch jazz singer using the pseudonym "Ann Burton"
Josse De Pauw (born 1952), Belgian artist and actor
Henri De Pauw (born 1911, date of death unknown), Belgian water polo player
Linda Grant DePauw (born 1940), American modern historian, retired university teacher, non-fiction author, journal editor
Lydia De Pauw (born 1929), Belgian politician
Moreno De Pauw (born 1991), Belgian racing cyclist
Nill De Pauw (born 1990), Belgian footballer
Noël De Pauw (1942–2015), Belgian racing cyclist
Roger De Pauw (1921–2020), Belgian racing cyclist
Tony De Pauw, Belgian businessman
Washington C. DePauw (1822–1887), American industrialist of Indiana


== Places ==
Named for Washington C. DePauw:
Depauw, Indiana, an unincorporated community
DePauw Avenue Historic District, New Albany, Indiana


== See also ==
Pavonia, New Netherland, named for Michiel Pauw

"'Monster" is the fourth episode of the second season of the American crime-thriller television series Millennium. It premiered on the Fox network in the United States  on October 17, 1997. The episode was written by Glen Morgan and James Wong and directed by Perry Lang. "Monster" featured guest appearances from Kristen Cloke, Robert Wisden and Chris Owens.
In the episode, Millennium Group profiler Frank Black (Lance Henriksen) travels to Arkansas to investigate allegations of child abuse in the community, meeting fellow Group member Lara Means (Cloke). They soon discover that the abuse may actually be the work of another child.
"Monster" introduces the recurring character Lara Means, who would appear throughout the second season. The episode also features music by Bobby Darin, a hallmark of Morgan and Wong's work. The episode has been well received by critics, and earned guest star Lauren Diewold a nomination at the 1998 Young Artist Awards.


== Plot ==
Millennium Group consultant Frank Black (Lance Henriksen) travels to Springdale, Arkansas, to investigate allegations of child abuse brought against a daycare owner, Penny Plott (Mary Gillis). Before he leaves Seattle, he takes his daughter Jordan (Brittany Tiplady) shopping for shoes but chastises her when she begins acting out for attention.
In Arkansas, sheriff's deputy Bill Sherman (Chris Owens) discovers bite marks on his son's skin after he returns home from the daycare. When his son refuses to discuss what happened, Sherman is convinced of the rumors about Plott. Black arrives in town and pretends to be a local parent interested in using the daycare. His visit is interrupted by Lara Means (Kristen Cloke), who is investigating for Plott's defense. However, the two are forced to work together when one boy, Jason Wells, stops breathing. Despite attempts to revive him, the boy dies.
Meanwhile, in Seattle, Black's wife Catherine (Megan Gallagher) takes Jordan to the dentist after she spits blood while brushing her teeth. The dentist tells her such an injury is most commonly caused by blunt force trauma. Catherine dismisses the idea, but Jordan mentions Black losing his temper during the shopping trip.
An autopsy reveals Wells' death was the result of an asthma attack. However, the ambitious district attorney, Gordon Roberts (Robert Wisden) believes Plott is somehow responsible. The investigation stalls until another child, Danielle Barbakow (Lauren Diewold), mentions overhearing Wells being abused by Plott. Plott is arrested by Sherman, whom she reprimands sternly, reminding him that she looked after him as a child too, and has never been accused of anything in three decades of childcare work. Sherman sees she is incapable of what she has been accused of and continues to send his son to the daycare, but other parents protest, picket and vandalize the premises.
Black and Means discover that they have both been sent to investigate by the Group, realizing that this is some kind of test for them. They both come to believe that Barkabow, from whom Black senses a demonic presence, is responsible for Wells' death and visit her home. Means speaks to Barkabow's mother while Black interviews the child. As they speak, Barkabow begins screaming and accuses Black of harming her; after he leaves the room she hits herself in the face and breaks her jaw. This leads Roberts, who learns that Black is under suspicion of harming Jordan, to arrest him for assault.
Means has ultraviolet photographs taken of Barkabow's injuries and deduces that the girl was injured with an angel statue from her room. Means realizes that Black could not have wielded this statue, and Barkabow's mother admits to having heard her daughter hit herself. Black is released, and the abuse investigation against him is dropped when Catherine defends him. Lara and Black return to Seattle, while Barbakow is adopted by a family of the Millennium Group.


== Production ==

"Monster" was written by frequent collaborators Glen Morgan and James Wong, and directed by Perry Lang. The episode was the sixth to have been written by Morgan and Wong, after the duo had penned "Dead Letters", "522666" and "The Thin White Line" in the first season, and "The Beginning and the End" and "Beware of the Dog" in the second. The pair would go on to script a further nine episodes over the course of the second season, having taken the roles of co-executive producers for the season. "Monster" saw director Lang's only contribution to Millennium.
The episode makes use of Bobby Darin's song "Goodbye Charlie" in a diegetic manner; the song would also be put to use in the later second season episode "Goodbye Charlie". Darin's music has been noted by Millennium's resident composer Mark Snow as a hallmark of the works of Morgan and Wong, and would also appear in the episodes "Beware of the Dog" and "Sense and Antisense". "Monster" opens with a quote from William Shakespeare's Henry VI, Part 2—"First thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers".
"Monster" marked Kristen Cloke's first appearance in the series as Millennium Group member Lara Means. Cloke would make several further appearances as the character, with the last of these being the second season finale "The Time Is Now". Guest stars Robert Wisden and Chris Owens both appeared in Millennium's sister show The X-Files—Owens first appeared in the Morgan and Wong-penned "Musings of a Cigarette Smoking Man", before taking on the recurring role of Jeffrey Spender in that series' fifth season; while Wisden appeared in "Pusher". Wisden would also reappear in Millennium's third season, acting in an unrelated role in "TEOTWAWKI".


== Broadcast and reception ==
"Monster" was first broadcast on the Fox network in the United States on October 17, 1997. The episode earned a Nielsen rating of 6 during its original broadcast, meaning that 6 percent of households in the United States viewed the episode. This represented approximately 5.88 million households, and left the episode the seventy-second most-viewed broadcast that week. Guest star Lauren Diewold received a nomination for Best Performance in a TV Drama Series – Guest Starring Young Actress at the 1998 Young Artist Awards for her role in "Monster", losing out to Cara Rose for Touched by an Angel.
The episode received positive reviews from critics. The A.V. Club's Zack Handlen rated the episode B+, finding that it has "impressive ambition" but "doesn't really work". Handlen found the episode "immensely fun to watch", and was pleased that the series had departed from the sexually motivated serial killings of past episodes; however, he felt that the plot was "muddled" and found Black's personal involvement in the case to be unnecessary. Bill Gibron, writing for DVD Talk, rated the episode 4.5 out of 5, calling Cloke "an amazing addition to the series". Gibron also felt positively about the increasingly plot-driven nature of the series, describing Morgan and Wong's developments as a "complex, completely innovative mythology". Robert Shearman and Lars Pearson, in their book Wanting to Believe: A Critical Guide to The X-Files, Millennium & The Lone Gunmen, rated "Monster" four stars out of five, describing it as "a brave story well told". Shearman praised Diewold's guest appearance, and felt that the introduction of Lara Means was a positive addition, although it caused the character of Catherine to seem increasingly needless.


== Notes ==


== Footnotes ==


=== References ===
Chris Carter, John Peter Kousakis, Lance Henriksen, Michael R. Perry, Ken Horton, Thomas J. Wright, Mark Snow, Chip Johannessen, Kristen Cloke, Megan Gallagher, Frank Spotnitz, Mark Freeborn (2004). The Turn of the Tide: The Making of Season 2 (DVD). Millennium: The Complete Second Season: 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment.
Meisler, Andy (1999). Resist or Serve: The Official Guide to The X-Files. Vol. 4. London: HarperCollins. ISBN 978-0-00-257133-3.
Shearman, Robert; Pearson, Lars (2009). Wanting to Believe: A Critical Guide to The X-Files, Millennium & The Lone Gunmen. Mad Norwegian Press. ISBN 978-0975944691.


== External links ==
"Monster" at IMDb

MARC Cars Australia is an Australian auto racing team and racecar manufacturer, who compete internationally in sports car and endurance racing events, mostly in their own GTC prototype cars.


== Racing history ==


=== Production ===
Founder Ryan McLeod entered several editions of the Bathurst 12 Hour under the team's former name, Racer Industries. After an initial foray in 2009 with father Peter and brother Gerard, the family entry, driving a Holden Astra SRi returned in 2010 to win its class. In the years following, the team moved away from a family focus, instead providing opportunities to various young drivers including Chaz Mostert, Scott Pye and Ashley Walsh in a HSV VXR Turbo. The team won further class victories in 2012, in which the team finished seventh overall, and in 2013.


=== GTC ===
In 2013, an initial GTC prototype was built and tested by Pace Innovations, following their work on new chassis for the Supercars Championship and V8SuperTourer series. The initial model, styled as a Ford Focus, featured a five-litre Ford Coyote V8 engine and was tested at Queensland Raceway by Glenn Seton and Russell Ingall amongst others. After an initial plan to run the cars in South Africa, Racer Industries developed a package based on the GTC prototype and entered three cars, now each branded as a MARC, in the Invitational class of the 2014 Liqui Moly Bathurst 12 Hour.
McLeod used the event as a launching pad for developing and promoting a package that could compete in global endurance races on a reduced budget. The team, or its cars, have since competed in the Silverstone 24 Hours, Dubai 24 Hour and Sepang 12 Hours amongst others. In 2015, the team competed in the full season of the 24H Series, consisting of six 12 or 24 hour races globally. Since then, VDS Racing Adventures have used MARC cars in the series. In 2015, MARC also unveiled a Mazda3-styled body panel kit to enter the 2015 Liqui Moly Bathurst 12 Hour, which still used the Ford Coyote engine.
In 2014, MARC Cars were given their own class in the National Sports Sedan Series, while they are also eligible for the Australian GT Trophy Series as of 2016. With the Invitational class at the Bathurst 12 Hour predominantly made up of MARC entries, the team has won four consecutive class victories with the GTC prototypes, which extends to six when taking into account their HSV victories.
In 2017, MARC Cars competed in the United States for the first time, with entries in the California 8 Hours at Mazda Raceway Laguna Seca and the 24H COTA at the Circuit of the Americas.


=== II V8 ===

Ahead of the 2018 Liqui Moly Bathurst 12 Hour, MARC Cars Australia launched the MARC II V8, their second generation GTC racer unofficially styled on the Ford Mustang. Their three entries in the Bathurst 12 Hour were allowed to lap in the 2:06s bracket, having previously been restricted to 2:10s. With MARC Cars making up seven of the nine entries in the Invitational class, the manufacturer picked up another class victory, with the sole remaining MARC II V8 finishing ahead of the first generation MARC entries.


=== GT3 and GT4 ===
In 2016, MARC Cars acquired a BMW M6 GT3 and entered it in selected rounds of the 2016 Australian GT Championship, including hiring factory BMW driver Bruno Spengler to drive with regular driver Morgan Haber at the Phillip Island round. The team also entered their M6 GT3, as well as a record six GTC entries, at the 2017 Liqui Moly Bathurst 12 Hour with Chaz Mostert as lead driver. Mostert qualified second on the grid, however the car did not finish the race after suffering a Gearbox failure. From the 2018 Bathurst 12 Hour, MARC Cars prepared a BMW M4 GT4 for American entry RHC-Lawrence/Strom.


=== IRC GT ===

The IRC GT was launched in 2023, built and designed by PACE Innovations with car performance aimed at competing against FIA GT3 cars. It made its competitive debut at the 2024 Bathurst 12 Hour, sweeping the Invitational class podium. Australian team 111 Racing, finished in second twice during the 2025 Middle East Trophy, claiming the drivers' and teams' championship. Former Indycar driver, Paul Tracy entered the car into the first two rounds of the 2025 Trans Am Series in the XGT class at Sebring and Road Atlanta. He started on pole and won both races and led the most laps in class 


== Company history ==
In 2020, GJ Motorsport, run by Geoff Taunton and a former customer team using MARC's prototypes, purchased the company from Ryan McLeod.


== Cars ==


== References ==

The Munch'ŏnhang Line, or Munch'ŏn Port Line, also known as the Koam Line, is a non-electrified railway line of the Korean State Railway in Kangwŏn Province, North Korea, connecting Ongp'yŏng on the Kangwŏn Line with Tapchon.


== History ==
The line was originally opened by the Chosen Anthracite Company (Japanese: 朝鮮無煙炭株式会社, Chōsen Muentan Kabushiki Kaisha, Korean: 조선 무연탄 주식회사, Chosŏn Muyŏnt'an Chusikhoesa) on 17 December 1943 as a privately owned railway from Munch'ŏn Station on the Hamgyŏng Line (now called Ok'pyŏng Station) to Wŏnsanbukhang Station (now called Koam Station). Later, the line was extended some time after the Korean War from Koam to Sinhŭng-ri.
An extension from Sinhŭng-ri to a newly developed fishing community at T'apchol-li on the Sŏngjŏn Peninsula, via a causeway and the 600 m (2,000 ft) Sŏkchon Bay Bridge (석전만다리), was opened on 25 May 2018; the opening ceremony included an inspection of the line by Kim Jong-un.


== Services ==
This line serves the May 27 Fishery Station at Koam, the October 3 Factory at Sinhŭng-ri, and the fishing community at Tapch'ŏl-li.


== Route ==
A yellow background in the "Distance" box indicates that section of the line is not electrified.


== External Media ==
Video report on the opening ceremony and inaugural train across the Sŏkchon Bay Bridge (in Korean)


== References ==

Jose Morey is a Puerto Rican physician. He is the founder and chief executive officer of Ad Astra Media. He is known as an intergalactic doctor. Previously, he served as an associate professor of radiology and internal medicine at Eastern Virginia Medical School.


== Early life and education ==
Morey was born into a Puerto Rican family.
He received his medical degree from the University of South Florida Morsani College of Medicine. Later, he studied at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. He did his fellowship from the University of Pennsylvania.


== Career ==
Morey began his career as a radiologist in Eastern Virginia. Later, he joined University of Virginia’s radiology department as an assistant professor of radiology and biomedical imaging. He has also served as a director of informatics for Medical Center Radiologists in Virginia Beach, Virginia.
Morey has served as chief medical innovation officer of Liberty BioSecurity. He has also served as an advisor to MIT Solve and NASA iTech. He formerly was an associate chief health officer for IBM Watson.
Morey is on the board with the Medical Society of Virginia and appointed Director as of 2023, and features as a guest speaker, the Informatics Leadership Council of the American College of Radiology, Virginia Chapter, and Virginia Health Information (VHI). He is on the advisory boards for MIT Solve, a platform for social impact, and MIT Ideas, a yearly social impact competition for MIT students, SciTech, a nonprofit for aerospace research, and the National STEM Honor Society. Further boards Morey features on include: SOMOS Inc., Immertec, Predictiv Care, Cemvita Factory, MaaPaa Organization, and the WHRO Board of Directors. He is a cofounder and currently sits as Chief Health Officer of Ever Medical Technologies; and, in 2021, helped to launch Ever Healthcare, their online medical outreach platform, in Thailand.
Morey is an advisor for NASA iTech, developing technologies and AI to be used towards the 2030 Mars Mission and the NASA Space Breathing Initiative. He has directed international teams of engineers to develop a database with NASA and NetApp for rapid COVID-19 response measures, now integrated into the US National Emergency Broadcast System. They have programmed AI to determine the best medical procedures in combatting and treating COVID-19. Morey has also served as a representative of the Polish Space Agency.
Morey has served as an advisor to the Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology on their Kaggle CORD19 Project, in collaboration with high-ranking research universities, foundations, Microsoft, and the National Library of Medicine (NLM). Morey aided these parties in the development of an AI platform to analyze material on the Coronavirus family and COVID-19 pandemic.
In 2021, his novel, LatinX Business Success, co-authored with Frank Carbajal (president of Es Tiempo LLC), was released by Wiley Publishing.
Morey is an Eisenhower Fellow with the 2020-2021 Zhi-Xing Fellows Program. He is also a faculty member of the Singularity University. He is known as the first intergalactic doctor, and in 2019, Morey founded and became CEO of Ad Astra Media LLC in Virginia.


== Publications ==
The Future Shock of Medicine: How AI will Transform Disease, Death and Doctors
Biofilms-Impacts on Human Health and Its Relevance to Space Travel
Machine Learning in Radiology: Applications Beyond Image Interpretation
Radiology's Emerging Role in 3-D Printing Applications in Health Care
Latinx Business Success: How Latinx Ingenuity, Innovation, and Tenacity are Driving Some of the World's Biggest Companies


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Jose Morey Interview

Thomas Haigh (1769 – 1808), was an English violinist, pianist, and composer.
Haigh was born in London in 1769, and studied composition under Haydn in 1791 and 1792. Haigh's numerous compositions include sonatas for pianoforte solo and for pianoforte and violin or flute, serenatas, capriccios, and arrangements. Some of them were reprinted at Paris and others at Offenbach.
The better known of them are: Two sets of three sonatas, each for pianoforte, dedicated to Haydn, 1796(?); three sonatas for pianoforte, with accompaniment for violin or flute, London, 1798(?); three sonatas for pianoforte, airs by Giardini introduced, Op. 13, 1800(?); sonata for pianoforte, with air from ‘Beggar's Opera’ introduced, Op. 28, 1800(?); sonata, with air Viva tutte, accompaniment flute or violin, 1812(?); sonata, pianoforte, dedicated to Miss Bain, 1817(?); grand sonata, dedicated to Miss Heathcote, 1819; ‘Yesterday,’ ‘Whan you told us,’ and other ballads, about 1800. A violin concerto and a parody on the 'Lodoiska' for flute (see Clementi's Catalogue) are also ascribed to Haigh in the ‘Dictionary of Music’ of 1827.
From 1793 to 1801 Haigh lived in Manchester, where he probably had family connections. He died in London in April 1808.


== References ==


== External links ==
Free scores by Thomas Haigh at the International Music Score Library Project (IMSLP)
"Haigh, Thomas" . Dictionary of National Biography. London: Smith, Elder & Co. 1885–1900.

The Snehapoorvam Scheme is a welfare initiative introduced by the Kerala Social Security Mission in 2012, aimed at providing financial assistance and social support to children from economically disadvantaged families, especially those who have lost their parents or guardians. Launched in 2005 under the Department of Social Justice, the scheme seeks to ensure that vulnerable children receive adequate financial support to meet their basic needs and continue their education.


== Beneficiaries ==
The beneficiaries of this scheme are children who have lost their father or mother or both, residing in Kerala and belonging to 'below poverty line' category. For children from families belonging to 'above poverty line' category, the annual income should be less than ₹ 20,000 in rural areas (Local body/Grama Panchayat) and ₹22,375 in urban areas (Corporation/ Municipality). The financial assistance is ₹300 per month for children below 5 years and those between class 1 and 5, ₹ 500 per month for class 6-10, ₹ 750 per month for class 11-12 and ₹ 1000 for degree courses. 
There were approximately 75,000 orphan children in 2013 in Kerala, which fell to approximately 38,000 in 2014 after the launch of this scheme.


== References ==

Forest Hill was a provincial electoral district in Ontario, Canada. It was created prior to the 1963 provincial election and eliminated in 1975. Forest Hill riding was located in the former village of Forest Hill and the borough of York east of Dufferin Street. It had a large Jewish community, representing about 30% of the population.
Two Members of Provincial Parliament represented the riding during its history. The first, Edward Arunah Dunlop, Jr., was a son of Edward Arunah Dunlop, a veteran provincial politician who had previously represented the riding of Renfrew North. Former Toronto mayor Philip Givens represented the riding until it was abolished in 1975.
In the redistribution that took effect in the 1975 election, Forest Hill went to the riding of St. Andrew--St. Patrick and the borough of York sections went to the riding of Oakwood.


== Members of Provincial Parliament ==


== Electoral results ==


=== Forest Hill ===


=== York—Forest Hill ===


== See also ==
List of Ontario provincial electoral districts
Canadian provincial electoral districts


== References ==

St. Anthony's Church or St. Anthony Church or variations thereof may refer to:


== Albania ==
St. Anthony Church, Durrës
St. Anthony Church, Laç


== Brazil ==
St. Anthony Cathedral, Juiz de Fora


== Canada ==
St. Anthony of Padua (Ottawa), Ontario


== China ==
St. Anthony's Catholic Church (Shenzhen)


== Croatia ==
Sanctuary of St. Anthony of Padua (Zagreb)


== India ==
St. Antony's Church, Chemmanvilai, Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu
St. Antony's Shrine, Kaloor, Kochi, Kerala
St. Antony's Church, Sundampatti, Krishnagiri District, Tamil Nadu
St. Antony's Church, Bommidi, Dharmapuri, Tamil Nadu


== Israel ==
St. Anthony's Church, Tel Aviv


== Italy ==
Basilica of Saint Anthony of Padua


== Kosovo ==
Saint Anthony's Church (Gjakova)


== Portugal ==
Santo António Church (Lisbon)


== Sri Lanka ==
St. Anthony's church, Wahakotte
St. Antony's shrine, Kachchatheevu


== Turkey ==
St. Anthony of Padua Cathedral (Istanbul), Turkey


== United Kingdom ==
St Anthony's Church, Cartmel Fell, Cumbria, England


== United States ==
Listed alphabetically by state

Saint Anthony's Church (Casa Grande, Arizona)
Saint Anthony's Catholic Church (Ratcliff, Arkansas)
St. Anthony's Roman Catholic Church (Sterling, Colorado)
St. Anthony's Roman Catholic Church (Wilmington, Delaware)
St Anthony of Padua Church, Washington D.C.
Saint Anthony Catholic Church (Honolulu), Hawaii
Saint Anthony Catholic Church in Kailua, Hawaii
Saint Anthony Catholic Church in Laupahoehoe, Hawaii
Saint Anthony of Padua Catholic Church in Wailuku, Hawaii
St. Anthony's Catholic Church (Davenport, Iowa)
St. Anthony's Catholic Church (Des Moines, Iowa)
St. Anthony of Padua Church (New Bedford, Massachusetts)
St. Anthony's Church and School (Cedar Rapids, Nebraska)
St. Anthony's Church (Bronx), New York
St. Anthony of Padua Church (Bronx), New York
St. Anthony of Padua Church (Manhattan), New York
St. Anthony's Church (Pine Plains, New York)
St. Anthony's Catholic Church (Padua, Ohio)
St. Anthony's Catholic Church (Okmulgee, Oklahoma)
Saint Anthony's Chapel (Pittsburgh), Pennsylvania — notable for its large number of relics
Saint Anthony Cathedral Basilica in Beaumont, Texas
Saint Anthony's Catholic Church (Bryan, Texas)
Old St. Anthony's Catholic Church (Violet, Texas)
Church of Saint Anthony (Casper, Wyoming)


== See also ==
St Anthony of Padua (disambiguation)
St. Anthony's Chapel (disambiguation)
St. Anthony's School (disambiguation)
St. Anthony's Hospital (disambiguation)

Pierre Chaillet (1900–1972) was a French Catholic priest of the Society of Jesus (Jesuits), who was recognised as Righteous among the Nations by Yad Vashem for his work to protect Jews from the Nazi Holocaust.
The Amitiés Chrétiennes organisation operated out of Lyon to secure hiding places for Jewish children. Among its members was the Jesuit Pierre Chaillet. The influential French theologian Henri de Lubac SJ was active in the resistance to Nazism and antisemitism. He assisted in the publication of Témoinage chrétien with Pierre Chaillet, responding to Neo-paganism and antisemitism with clarity, describing the notion of an Aryan New Testament standing in contradiction to a Semitic Old Testament as "blasphemy" and "stupidity".


== See also ==
Jesuits and Nazism


== References ==

The year 666 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 88 Ab urbe condita. The denomination 666 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.


== Events ==


=== By place ===


==== Middle East ====
King Ashurbanipal undertook a campaign to Egypt.
One theory is that this is the year Psammitichus I ascended the throne.


== References ==

Genclerbirliyi Sumqayit was an Azerbaijani professional football club based in Sumqayit from 2003 to 2008.
This list encompasses the major records set by the club and their players in the Azerbaijan Premier League. The player records section includes details of the club's goalscorers and those who have made more than 50 appearances in first-team competitions.


== Player ==


=== Most appearances ===
Players played over 50 competitive, professional matches only. Appearances as substitute (goals in parentheses) included in total.


=== Overall scorers ===
Competitive, professional matches only, appearances including substitutes appear in brackets.


== Team ==


=== Goals ===
Most Premier League goals scored in a season: 32 – 2004–05
Fewest League goals scored in a season: 16 – 2006-07
Most League goals conceded in a season: 68 – 2007–08
Fewest League goals conceded in a season: 28 – 2004-05


=== Points ===
Most points in a season:
33 in 34 matches, Azerbaijan Premier League, 2004–05
Fewest points in a season:
14 in 26 matches, Azerbaijan Premier League, 2007–08


== International representatives ==


== References ==

The James Steel House is a historic home located at Newark, New Castle County, Delaware. The original section, a two-story, two-bay, double-pile, stuccoed brick structure, is dated to the late 18th century.  It was doubled in size about 1882, with the facade addition of a two-story, two-bay, frame wing.  It features a two-story bay window on the endwall, a pointed-arch attic window, and German siding.  The main block has had a series of rear additions during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, creating an overall T-plan.
It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1983.


== References ==

Tribromometacresol is an antifungal medication. This compound belongs to the class of organic compounds known as meta cresols, containing a meta cresol moiety which consists of a benzene ring bearing a methyl group and a hydroxyl group at ring positions 1 and 3, respectively.


== References ==

Eduardo Oliveira may refer to:

Eduardo Oliveira (footballer, born 1972), full name Eduardo Oliveira dos Santos, Brazilian football manager and former player
Eduardo Oliveira (footballer, born 1982), full name Eduardo Gonçalves Torres de Oliveira, Brazilian football manager and former player

Hyperaspis pistillata is a species of lady beetle in the family Coccinellidae. It is found in North America, where it has been recorded from Massachusetts to Florida and Louisiana.


== Description ==
Adults reach a length of about 2.75-4.0 mm. The pronotum of the males has yellow anterior and lateral margins, while the pronotum of the females is black. The elytron has one or two yellow or red spots.


== References ==


== Further reading ==

Plocamopherus tilesii is a species of sea slug, a nudibranch, a shell-less marine gastropod mollusk in the family Polyceridae.


== Distribution ==
This species occurs in the Pacific Ocean, from Japan south to Australia.


== References ==

Transformation is the first studio album by bassist Tal Wilkenfeld, released independently on 14 May 2007. The album was recorded in May 2006, when she was 19 years old, having moved to the United States from her native Australia.


== Track listing ==


== Personnel ==
Tal Wilkenfeld – bass, arrangement, producer
Wayne Krantz – guitar
Geoffrey Keezer – keyboard, piano
Keith Carlock – drums
Samuel Torres – percussion (track 3)
Oteil Burbridge – bass melody (track 6)
Seamus Blake - saxophone
Malcolm Pollack – engineering
Roy Hendrickson – engineering (overdubs)
Bryan Pugh – engineering assistance
Joe Ferla – mixing
Bernie Grundman – mastering


== References ==


== External links ==
Tal Wilkenfeld: Serendipity at jazz.com

Saturn LX, provisionally known as S/2004 S 29, is a natural satellite of Saturn and a member of the Gallic group. Its discovery was announced by Scott S. Sheppard, David C. Jewitt, and Jan Kleyna on October 7, 2019 from observations taken between December 12, 2004 and January 17, 2007. It was given its permanent designation in August 2021.
Saturn LX is about 4 kilometres in diameter, and orbits Saturn at an average distance of 17 million km (11 million mi) in 837.78 d (2.2937 a), at an average inclination of 38.6° to the ecliptic, with an eccentricity of 0.485.
Saturn LX was initially thought to be part of the Inuit group before it was recategorized to the Gallic group in 2022.


== References ==

The Department of Viticulture and Enology is an academic department within the Agricultural Sciences Division at the College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences at the University of California, Davis. The department offers undergraduate and graduate degrees in the areas of grape growing and wine making. Located just 45 minutes from Napa Wine Country, the department has strong connections with wine producers in California and elsewhere. The department has produced many of the notable winemakers of the California wine industry.


== History ==
The Department of Viticulture and Enology at UC Davis celebrated its 125th anniversary in 2005. Established in 1880 by mandate of the California Legislature, the purpose of the department was to establish a center of research to help the developing California wine industry.  Originally located on the UC Berkeley campus, the department was closed in 1919 with the passage of prohibition into law.  The department was re-established in 1935 on the Davis campus following the repeal of prohibition.  Today the department includes a pilot winery and two research vineyards (one located on the main campus, and one located in the Napa valley).  In 2001 Robert Mondavi donated $25 million to the College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences for the establishment of the Robert Mondavi Institute for Wine and Food Science, which opened October 2008.


== See also ==
Winkler vine


== References ==


== External links ==
Department of Viticulture and Enology
Robert Mondavi Institute for Wine and Food Science

Dholpur district is a district of eastern Rajasthan state in Northern India. The town of Dholpur is the district headquarters. Dholpur District is a part of Bharatpur Divisional Commissionerate. It was carved out from the erstwhile Bharatpur District on 15 April 1982.
Dholpur District has an area of 3084 km2. The Chambal River forms the southern boundary of the district, across which lies the state of Madhya Pradesh. The district is bounded by the state of Uttar Pradesh on the east and northeast, by Bharatpur District of Rajasthan on the northwest, and Karauli District of Rajasthan on the west. All along the bank of the Chambal River the district is deeply intersected by ravines; low ranges of hills in the western portion of the district supply quarries of fine-grained and easily worked red sandstone.


== Administration ==
Administratively the district is divided into four subdivisions, Dholpur, Bari, Rajakhera, and Baseri, and six tehsils, Dholpur, Bari, Rajakhera, Basedi, Sarmathura and Saipau.


== Demographics ==

According to the 2011 census Dholpur district had a population of 1,206,516, making Dholpur the 394th most populated of India's 640 districts. The district had a population density of 398 inhabitants per square kilometre (1,030/sq mi). Its population growth rate over the decade 2001-2011 was 22.78%. Dholpur had a sex ratio of 845 females for every 1000 males, and a literacy rate of 70.14%. 20.51% of the population lives in urban areas. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes make up 20.36% and 4.86% of the population respectively.

At the time of the 2011 Census of India, 97.91% of the population in the district spoke Hindi and 1.58% Braj Bhasha as their first language.


== Wildlife ==
The district has 2 Wildlife Sanctuaries- Van Vihar Wildlife Sanctuary and Ramsagar Wildlife Sanctuary.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Albacete Basket, also known as Bueno Arenas Albacete Basket for sponsorship reasons, is a basketball club based in Albacete, Castilla–La Mancha that currently plays in Segunda FEB, the third tier of Spanish basketball.


== History ==
Albacete Basket was founded in 2012 as a merger of the senior teams of the city's two clubs (CABA and EBA) with the aim to be the main basketball reference in Albacete.
After playing four seasons in Liga EBA, it was promoted to LEB Plata in the 2015–16 season, in its third consecutive appearance in the promotion play-offs and just after resigning to an invitation of the Spanish Basketball Federation in the previous season.
In their debut season in LEB Plata, the club was relegated after losing on the last matchday against Zamora, but was able to remain in the league by achieving one of the vacant berths.


== Sponsorship naming ==
Arcos Albacete Basket 2015–present


== Current roster ==


== Season by season ==


=== Notable players ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Club website

Sir James Beveridge Thomson (24 March 1902 – 31 March 1983), was a Scottish barrister who was the Chief Justice of the Federal Court of Malaysia. He was also Chief Justice of Fiji.


== Life ==
Born in Clydebank, Scotland, he attended George Watson's College and graduated from the University of Edinburgh with first class honours in history.
He was called to the English Bar (Middle Temple) in 1929. He was a resident magistrate in Northern Rhodesia, appointed Puisne Judge, Fiji and Western Pacific, in 1945, and Puisne Judge in Malaya in 1947. He was Chief Justice of Fiji (and ex officio Chief Judicial Commissioner for the Western Pacific) 1949–1953, and Chief Justice of Tonga. He was called to the Scottish Bar in 1955.
From 1953, Thomson was back in Malaya, serving as a judge in the High Court in Ipoh, Perak, from 1953 to 1957. In 1957, he was appointed Chief Justice of Malaya, receiving a knighthood in 1959. After the formation of Malaysia in September 1963, Thomson served as its first Lord President of the Federal Court until May 1966. He was appointed a KBE in 1966.


== Family life ==
He married Dr Florence Adams, MRCP (Eng.), LRCP (Lond.). After Sir James Thomson's knighthood in 1959, she was known as Toh Puan Datin Lady Florence Adams Thomson. She was a practising physician, working in Northern Rhodesia, where her husband was Resident Magistrate, and was Medical Officer in Fiji. During their time in Malaysia, she became chief nutritionist at the Institute of Medical Research in Kuala Lumpur, carrying out research and authoring a number of articles on child nutrition in Malaysia.
 When in Scotland, and after their retirement, they lived at Craig Gowan, Carrbridge, Badenoch and Strathspey, Highland region (formerly Inverness-shire).


== Honours ==


=== Commonwealth honours ===
 Malaysia :
 Honorary Grand Commander of the Order of the Defender of the Realm (SMN (K)) – Tun (1966)
 Malaya :
 Honorary Commander of the Order of the Defender of the Realm (PMN (K)) – Tan Sri (1958)
 United Kingdom :
 Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) – Sir (1966)
 Knight Bachelor (Kt) – Sir (1959)


== Selected bibliography ==
Thomson, James Beveridge (1950). The laws of the British Solomon Islands Protectorate : containing the King's regulations and subsidiary legislation thereunder enacted on or before the 1st day of January, 1948 (2 Vols.). British Solomon Islands: A. J. Elphick, Acting Government Printer.
Thomson, James Beveridge (1951). Electoral Act, revised edition of the laws of Tonga comprising all laws, acts, and ordinances in force on the first day of January 1948. Dunedin, New Zealand: Coulls Somerville Willie.


== Notes ==


== References ==

Morais, J. Victor (1967). Selected Speeches.
Morais, J. Victor, ed. (1965) [first edition published in 1956]. The Who's who in Malaysia (5 ed.). Kuala Lumpur.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link)


== External links ==
Photo of Sir James Thomson as first Lord President of the Malaysian Federal Court
Malaysian granny with child: photo by Dr. F. Adam Thomson, The Straits Times, 17 November 1950, Page 6

Amber Settle is an American computer scientist and professor of education and theory in the department of Computer Science at DePaul University in Chicago, Illinois. She is known for her work in computer science education and her continuing service and leadership in Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Special Interest Group on Computer Science Education (SIGCSE). She is also known for her work on computational thinking.


== Education ==
She received a bachelor of science in mathematics and a bachelor of arts in German from the University of Arizona. She also received a master of science and a doctor of philosophy in theoretical computer science from the University of Chicago.


== Career ==
She served on the SIGCSE Board for six years, during which she served as Treasurer for three. SIGCSE is the premier international organization for computer science educators serving over 2700 members from more than 60 countries.
She is served as Past Chair on the ACM SIGCSE Board from 2016-2019.


== Awards and honors ==
In 2011, she was awarded the ACM Women Senior Member Award for her leadership, technical, and professional accomplishments.
In 2015, she received the DePaul School of Computing Spirit of Inquiry Award for her work on Computational Thinking across the Curriculum.
In 2019, she was elected an ACM Distinguished Member.


== Selected publications ==
2002. Settle, Amber, and Janos Simon. Smaller solutions for the firing squad. Theoretical Computer Science 276.1-2 (2002): 83-109.
2014. Linda Mannila, Valentina Dagiene, Barbara Demo, Natasa Grgurina, Claudio Mirolo, Lennart Rolandsson, Amber Settle,  Computational thinking in K-9 education, Proceedings of the working group reports of the 2014 on innovation & technology in computer science education conference, Pages 1–29, ACM, 2014.
2016. Undergraduate Students' Perceptions of the Impact of Pre-College Computing Activities on Choices of Major, ACM Transactions on Computing Education, 2016.


== See also ==
SIGCSE Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education


== References ==


== External links ==
Amber Settle, Professor of Computer Science, DePaul
ACM Special Interest Group on Computer Science Education

The Naval Computer and Telecommunications Station (NCTS) Far East is a Navy military unit headquartered in Yokosuka, Japan. The unit consists of nine geographically-dispersed sites in Japan, South Korea, Singapore, and Diego Garcia. NCTS Far East's mission is to "operate and defend mission critical, Navy warfighting networks and communications systems necessary for U.S. Naval, Joint, and Coalition Commanders to conduct secure command and control in the United States Indo-Pacific Command (USINDOPACOM) theater of operations."


== History ==


=== 1951–1960 ===
NAVCOMTELSTA Far East was originally designated as Naval Communications Facility, Yokosuka Japan; it was commissioned on 8 January 1951, after the outbreak of the Korean War. In December 1952 U.S. Naval Radio Receiving Facility Kami Seya, Japan was completed, and the Security Group Department and general-service receivers were moved to Kami Seya. During the war, the rest of NAVCOMMFAC Yokosuka moved to Kami Seya. In 1960, the command was re-designated U.S. Naval Communications Facility Japan and relocated to Yokosuka. The following year, the command was again re-designated as U.S. Naval Communications Station, Japan.


=== 1990s–present ===
This name lasted until 1991, when it was changed to U.S. Naval Computer and Telecommunications Station, Japan to acknowledge the increasing reliance on computers and telephones in telecommunications. Also in 1991, NTCCs Atsugi and Sasebo and NAVCOMM Dets Okinawa and Misawa were functionally transferred to NAVCOMTELSTA Japan. 1993 saw the transfer of Base Communications Offices (BCOs) at Atsugi, Sasebo and Yokosuka to NAVCOMTELSTA Japan. In 1995 another name change to U.S. Naval Computer and Telecommunications Station, Far East occurred, with the transfer of the Communications Department from Commander Fleet Activities Chinhae, Korea to this command and the establishment of NAVCOMM Det Chinhae.


== External links ==
Official website

Amelia Matilda Murray (30 April 1795 – 7 June 1884) was a British botanist, writer, and courtier. She wrote a book in defence of slavery in 1856.


== Life ==
Murray was born in Kenton to Lord George Murray and Anne Charlotte (née Grant). Her eldest brother was George Murray who became the Bishop of Rochester. She and her mother became known to George III and as a consequence her mother became a maid in waiting to the Princesses Elizabeth and Augusta. Murray herself met George III.
She came to notice when she was chosen to be a Maid of Honour to the young Queen Victoria. She was one of the eldest of the young Victoria's servants and she became known as the "Maid of Honour".
In 1854, she set out on a tour of North America and Cuba where she indulged her interest in botany as she investigated the institution of slavery. She published a book in defence of slavery that was based around letters to her friend Lady Byron. Murray had even prepared sketches to illustrate her book but these were not used. Lady Byron had been an active abolitionist and she had attended the 1840 World Anti-Slavery Convention. Murray wrote "Slavery does for the negro what European schemers in vain attempt to do for the hireling. It secures work and subsistence for all. It secures more order and subordination also." The reaction to Murray's book caused her to resign her position as woman of the bedchamber. She later published two further works.
Murray died at her home in Glenberrow, Castlemorton in 1884.


== Selected works ==
Remarks on Education in 1847, 1847.
Letters from the United States, Cuba, and Canada 1856.
Recollections from 1803 to 1837, with a Conclusion in 1868 1868.
Pictorial and Descriptive Sketches of the Odenwald 1869


== References ==


== Sources ==
Reynolds, K. D. "Murray, Amelia Matilda (1795–1884)". Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (online ed.). Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/ref:odnb/19589. (Subscription, Wikipedia Library access or UK public library membership required.)
Goodwin, Gordon (1892). "Murray, Amelia Matilda" . In Lee, Sidney (ed.). Dictionary of National Biography. Vol. 30. London: Smith, Elder & Co.

Herdling is a 2025 puzzle adventure video game developed by Okomotive and published by Panic for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X/S. It follows Via, a young girl living in a grimy city, as she herds furry and feathery creatures known as calicorns. Once outside the city, the journey starts in a mountainous landscape with several wounded calicorns along the path that can be rescued. The path features forests, plateaus, and valleys, as well as environmental hazards and predators, requiring the player to use stealth to avoid them, as the game provides no tools for combat. By successfully herding the calicorns, the game ends at the creatures' natural habitat on the mountain summit. The game features no dialogue or traditional storyline, focusing on exploration as the player guides the herd to its final destination.
Herdling is the studio's largest project to date and its first three-dimensional game. Panic had partnered with Okomotive since August 2022. The music is composed by Joel Schoch. It received generally positive reviews with a praise for its visuals, music, and emotional connection with the calicorns, though some faulted the lack of storyline, short playtime, and the Switch version's controls. Herdling won the SGDA Swiss Game Award in 2025 for Best Entertainment Game and received nominations in the Golden Joystick Awards, Deutscher Entwicklerpreis, Indie Game Awards, Unity Awards, and D.I.C.E. Awards.


== Gameplay ==

Herdling is a single-player puzzle adventure video game played from a third-person perspective. The player controls Via, who controls a herd of calicorns with a small magical stick. The herd's movement is inversely tied to the player's: when Via moves left, the herd moves right, and vice versa. The herd generally leads the way. It can also be commanded to speed up, slow down, or stop through specific button inputs. Waving the stick changes the herd's trajectory, holding a button slows the herd, rapidly pressing the same button speeds it up, and double-tapping another button stops it. Each calicorn can be named individually, and interacted with by removing twigs and branches from their coats, playing fetch, and adorning them with harnesses and baubles. Stealth is essential for avoiding predators such as the "winged terror" and the "murder owl". Players can enable a "calicorn immortality" option in the settings to prevent deaths.
In certain situations, the calicorns assist the player by providing boosts to cross ledges or by breaking open gates. The calicorns vary in shape and size and react to three colored flowers emitted from the magic stick. Blue flowers fill a gauge for stampedes used for traversing slippery terrain. Red flowers initiate or extend stampedes. Yellow flowers pollinate the calicorns' coat with an energy that reveals memories of the relationship between ancient calicorns and shepherds. Progress is saved by resting at campfires, which are typically found near shrines and also serve as spots to bond with the herd; ways of bonding include playing fetch using baubles and adorning them small trinkets, all which are found near campfires. After a calicorn's death, it may appears as a ghost at campfires or during stampedes. The game includes a built-in photo mode with simple controls for capturing screenshots of the scenery and gameplay.


== Plot ==
Set in a grimy city, Via, a young girl sleeping on a rough mattress in an underpass, wakes to the sound of a blaring car alarm. Investigating the noise, she finds an abandoned parking lot where a large furry and feathered beast has its face stuck in a trash can. Using a wooden stick, she frees the animal, a calicorn, and befriends it. She rescues other calicorns from similar dangers around the city. Together, they leave the city and embark on an adventurous journey in a mountainous landscape with foggy forests, snowy plateaus and hidden valleys.
While herding them, Via learns that the calicorns respond well to jewelry and affection. She guides the herd using a magical stick to control their direction and speed. Along the way, more wounded calicorns are found, healed, and added to the group. Via protects the herd from falling off cliffs and from predators. At the end of the journey, she leads the animals to their natural habitat at the top of the mountains.


== Development and release ==
Following the success of Far: Lone Sails (2018) and Far: Changing Tides  (2022), Okomotive sought to create a new intellectual property centered on a story about herding unusual creatures on a journey through mountains. Herdling is the studio's largest project and its first fully three-dimensional game. The studio partnered with publisher Panic in December 2022. Panic had previously published titles such as Firewatch (2016) and Untitled Goose Game (2019). The project was led by Okomotive founders Don Schmocker and Goran Saric, with game design led by Fabio Baumgartner, programming by Lorenz Kleiser, animation by Martina Hugentobler, and music composed by Joel Schoch. Baumgartner, in a pitch with Game Developers Conference 2025, stated his team was "inspired by the Alps and other mountain regions, along with classic atmospheric indie titles". Okomotive's development team consisted of 12 employees.
A trailer was released on the digital distribution service Steam, followed by a demo in the second week of June 2025. The Nintendo Switch version's release date was revealed during Nintendo's Indie World showcase. The game was released on August 21, 2025, on Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X/S. It was available on Xbox Game Pass and PC Game Pass from day one.


== Reception ==


=== Critical reception ===

Herdling received "generally favorable" reviews according to the review aggregator Metacritic. Softpedia's Cosmin Vasile awarded the game a "very good" rating, praising the guiding mechanics, creature connections, and moments of beauty while criticizing the limited world-building, repetitive herd management, and occasional graphical glitches. Eurogamer's Jim Trinca called the story "powerful and memorable", deeming it successfully told with "interaction, movement and art" despite the lack of dialogue. Rock Paper Shotgun's Edwin Evans-Thirlwell found it somewhat underwhelming compared to Okomotive's Far duology, describing it as less sophisticated and "more straightforwardly utopian" in its tale of an impoverished child and companion creatures escaping modernity, though he considered it "engrossing" as a study between human and animal relations.
Polygon praised the "undeniably gorgeous" graphical quality and art design, singling out the specks of light and distant snowy mountain caps. PC Gamer's Andy Chalk called it "short, sweet and utterly charming", noting that its "evocative beauty" compensated for its simplistic gameplay. Aftermath's Riley MacLeod highlighted the herd's physicality and described the game as a "lovely, relaxed affair with a responsive soundtrack and beautiful vistas". Shacknews's Larrynn Bell wrote that, despite its short length, the game effectively captured the bond between a herder and their animals, and added that artificially increasing the game length would have not improved the game. The A. V. Club's Wallace Truesdale, initially anxious about the nature of the NPCs, was satisfied when the game showed that "each new addition to the herd—a herd that you can thankfully navigate manually at a moment's notice—actually made me feel more free and empowered". The Guardian's Keza MacDonald compared it to The Last Guardian (2016), noting the relative challenge of wrangling creatures of various sizes. Jay Peters of The Verge drew a comparison to Journey (2012) regarding the locations, tone, and playtime. The New York Times's Christopher Byrd appreciated the game's art design and calicorn characterization, describing the title as an art game for its "poetic feel for spatial environments and celebration of life-affirming connections". The gameplay was positively received by Chris Allnutt of Financial Times, who attributed its natural feel to the lack of interface and instruction.
GameSpot's Mark Delaney noted the game's personification of the calicorns, naming and grooming mechanics, puzzles, music, and wordless storytelling, while criticizing the unclear petting and grooming prompts. Nintendo World Report's John Rairdin praised the soundtrack, visuals, performance on the Switch 2, and mechanics, but faulted the vague goals and poor storytelling. TechRadar's Josephine Watson noted the "gorgeous" presentation and decent replayability, but mentioned minor performance issues and the short length. Gamereactor's Ben Lyons appreciated the game's easy mechanics, storyline and visuals while at the same time critiquing the janky controls on Switch such as irregular camera movement and the herd not keeping up with the player. The camera issue on Switch was also noticed by Siliconera's Jenni Lada besides the game looking less sharper as compared to other platforms on which it was released. Windows Central's Zachary Boddy completed the game in five hours and was satisfied with the ending. The French video game website, Gamekult, found the game's conventional calm and wondrous atmosphere to be boring and remarked that more dangerous situations would have given a better gameplay.
The soundtrack by Joel Schoch was acclaimed and nominated for several awards. In a featured article on Video Games Chronicle, composer Joel Bille stated that "[Herdling's] music evokes a vivid sense of beauty, of thriving in the great outdoors, and at the same time carrying a bittersweet melancholic tone".


=== Accolades ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Herdling official website
Herdling on MobyGames

American Ex-Prisoners of War is a non-profit service organization that aims to assist the surviving U.S. military and Civilian prisoner of war (POWs), particularly those who are elderly and those who have medical problems. Based in Arlington, Texas, the American Ex–Prisoners of War was founded on April 14, 1942. The AXPOW emblem was designed in Denver, Colorado in 1949 by a former prisoner of war and National Director Bryan T. Doughty. Later the organization also adopted the motto "NON SOLUM ARMIS", which is Latin for "Not by Arms Alone". The organization received a congressional charter under Title 36 of the United States Code in 1982. The group claims a nationwide membership of 12,000.
The group is open to former American POWs of all wars and their immediate families. Its service officers have assisted POW veterans in securing medical services and other entitlements. Former POWs may be eligible for special veterans benefits, including medical care in Veterans Affairs hospitals and disability compensation for injuries and diseases caused by internment. These benefits are in addition to regular veterans' benefits and services to which they are also entitled. Widows and minor children of former POWs may qualify for special benefits and compensation.
Notable members include Wilburn Snyder, James C. Spencer, and D. C. Wimberly.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to American Ex-Prisoners of War at Wikimedia Commons
Official website

Andrew Kyle (born 8 July 1978) is a Northern Irish international lawn and indoor bowler.
Kyle bowls for County Antrim Bowling Club indoors and Larne Bowling Club outdoors and in 2016 represented a combined Irish team at the Bowls World Cup in Australia. In 2017, he won three medals at the European Bowls Championships.
Kyle was selected as part of the Northern Ireland team for the 2018 Commonwealth Games on the Gold Coast in Queensland.
In 2019, he won the fours bronze medal at the Atlantic Bowls Championships.


== References ==

The Kargil coffin scam refers to the case involving the purchase of US-made coffins for Indian soldiers killed during the Kargil military conflict. A Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report in 2001 raised the question over why the aluminium caskets were contracted for around $2,000 per piece when they were available in transactions elsewhere for $172 each. 
The report revealed that the government overpaid for coffins during the Kargil war – and that around Rs 1,762 crore worth of supplies (over four-fifths of the total) to help fight the conflict were delivered more than six months after it ended.


== Background ==
After the Kargil war that took place in 1999 between Indian Army and Pakistani soldiers and irregulars in the Kargil sector of India, there were allegations of corruption in the purchase of coffins by the then Government of India. The government had incurred a heavy loss of $187,000 in the entire transaction. Comptroller and Auditor General of India's report had found several fraud in the transaction of coffins.


== US supplier ==
The caskets were purchased from Buitron and Baiza, a company based in United States of America rendering funeral services. The then ruling government National Democratic Alliance had purchased 500 caskets worth $2500 each which was presumed to be thirteen times the original amount. 


== Ambassador's position ==
However, the ambassador from both the countries India and United States of America had declared in writing that those caskets had a cost worth $2,768 each.
Writing in the Times of India, Chidanand Rajghatta had argued that the "coffins were not meant to carry Kargil martyrs", these were  not "traditional coffins" but rather reusable aluminium 'transfer cases', and had been sought by the Ministry of Defence after "first hand accounts by indian officers -- who served on a peacekeeping mission in Somalia".
 
The CBI investigated the case and filed a charge sheet against three Indian Army officers in August 2009. In December 2013, a special CBI court found no evidence and hence discharged all the accused.


== CBI Investigation ==

The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered a case in June 2006 registered a case under sections 420 (cheating), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The CBI filed a charge sheet in August 2009. Three major Indian Army officers and a company based in the United States were named in the charge sheet. The three Army officers named were Major General Arun Roye, Colonel SK Malik and Colonel FB Singh. Victor Baiza, a US National who supplied the aluminium casket and body bags to the Indian Army was also named in the charge sheet. However, the then defense minister George Fernandes was not included in the report and was later given a clean chit from the scam.
In December 2013, a special CBI court found no evidence and hence discharged all the accused.


== Supreme Court verdict ==
On Oct 13, 2015, the Supreme Court Of India absolved former Defence Minister George Fernandes and former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee of all wrongdoing in the Kargil coffin scam.


== See also ==
Corruption in India
Socio-economic issues in India
Corruption Perceptions Index


== References ==

Ken Whitfort (born 10 October 1959) is a former Australian rules footballer who played with Melbourne in the Victorian Football League (VFL).


== Notes ==
		


== External links ==
Ken Whitfort's playing statistics from AFL Tables

Pease Township is one of sixteen townships of Belmont County, Ohio, United States. The 2020 census counted 12,849 people living in the township.


== Geography ==
Located in the northeastern corner of the county along the Ohio River, it borders the following townships:

Warren Township, Jefferson County—north
Pultney Township—south
Richland Township—southwest
Colerain Township—west
Mount Pleasant Township, Jefferson County—northwest
Ohio County, West Virginia, lies across the Ohio River to the east.
Several municipalities are located in Pease Township:

The village of Bridgeport in the southeast, along the Ohio River
The village of Brookside in the south
The city of Martins Ferry in the east, along the Ohio River
The village of Yorkville in the northeast, along the Ohio River
The unincorporated community of Riverview lies in the township's southeast, and the unincorporated census-designated places of Lansing and Wolfhurst are in the township's southwest, while Blaine lies in the township's west.


== Name and history ==
Pease Township was organized in 1806. Pease is the name of an early judge.
It is the only Pease Township statewide.
In 1833, Pease Township contained four flouring mills, one woolen and one cotton factory, and a number of gristmills and saw mills.


== Government ==
The township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.


== References ==


== External links ==
County website

Zuzana Tomaš (née Šaríková; born 15 February 1977), is a Slovak marathon runner. Tomaš competed at 2008 Summer Olympics, where she finished 67th in 2:49:39, about ten minutes behind her personal record (2:39:26). Tomaš's coach is Aleksandar Tomaš.
Born in Brezno, Tomaš received her PhD in linguistics from the University of Utah in Salt Lake City, Utah, United States. She became an assistant professor in the World Languages department at Eastern Michigan University in Ypsilanti, Michigan, United States, in June 2011.


== References ==


== External links ==
Zuzana Tomas' olympic games blog

A camera is an instrument used to capture and store images and videos, either digitally via an electronic image sensor, or chemically via a light-sensitive material such as photographic film. As a pivotal technology in the fields of photography and videography, cameras have played a significant role in the progression of visual arts, media, entertainment, surveillance, and scientific research. The invention of the camera dates back to the 19th century and has since evolved with advancements in technology, leading to a vast array of types and models in the 21st century.
Cameras function through a combination of multiple mechanical components and principles. These include exposure control, which regulates the amount of light reaching the sensor or film; the lens, which focuses the light; the viewfinder, which allows the user to preview the scene; and the film or sensor, which captures the image.
Several types of camera exist, each suited to specific uses and offering unique capabilities. Single-lens reflex (SLR) cameras provide real-time, exact imaging through the lens. Large-format and medium-format cameras offer higher image resolution and are often used in professional and artistic photography. Compact cameras, known for their portability and simplicity, are popular in consumer photography. Rangefinder cameras, with separate viewing and imaging systems, were historically widely used in photojournalism. Motion picture cameras are specialized for filming cinematic content, while digital cameras, which became prevalent in the late 20th and early 21st century, use electronic sensors to capture and store images.

The rapid development of smartphone camera technology in the 21st century has blurred the lines between dedicated cameras and multifunctional devices, as the smartphone camera is easier to use, profoundly influencing how society creates, shares, and consumes visual content.


== History ==


=== 19th century ===
Beginning with the use of the camera obscura and transitioning to complex photographic cameras, the evolution of the technology in the 19th century was driven by pioneers like Thomas Wedgwood, Nicéphore Niépce, and Henry Fox Talbot. First using the camera obscura for chemical experiments, they ultimately created cameras specifically for chemical photography, and later reduced the camera's size and optimized lens configurations.
The introduction of the daguerreotype process in 1839 facilitated commercial camera manufacturing, with various producers contributing diverse designs. As camera manufacturing became a specialized trade in the 1850s, designs and sizes were standardized.
The latter half of the century witnessed the advent of dry plates and roll-film, prompting a shift towards smaller and more cost-effective cameras, epitomized by the original Kodak camera, first produced in 1888. This period also saw significant advancements in lens technology and the emergence of color photography, leading to a surge in camera ownership.


=== 20th century ===
The first half of the 20th century saw continued miniaturization and the integration of new manufacturing materials. After World War I, Germany took the lead in camera development, spearheading industry consolidation and producing precision-made cameras. The industry saw significant product launches such as the Leica camera and the Contax, which were enabled by advancements in film and lens designs. Additionally, there was a marked increase in accessibility to cinematography for amateurs with Eastman Kodak's production of the first 16-mm and 8-mm reversal safety films. The World War II era saw a focus on the development of specialized aerial reconnaissance and instrument-recording equipment, even as the overall pace of non-military camera innovation slowed.
In the second half of the century, Japanese manufacturers in particular advanced camera technology. From the introduction of the affordable Ricohflex III TLR in 1952 to the first 35mm SLR with automatic exposure, the Olympus AutoEye in 1960, new designs and features continuously emerged. Electronics became integral to camera design in the 1970s, evident in models like Polaroid's SX-70 and Canon's AE-1.
Transition to digital photography marked the late 20th century, culminating in digital camera sales surpassing film cameras in the United States by 2003. In contrast, the film camera industry in the UK, Western Europe, and the USA declined during this period, while manufacturing continued in the USSR, German Democratic Republic, and China, often mimicking Western designs.


=== 21st century ===
The 21st century witnessed the mass adoption of digital cameras and significant improvements in sensor technology. A major revolution came with the incorporation of cameras into smartphones, making photography a commonplace activity. The century also marked the rise of computational photography, using algorithms and AI to enhance image quality. Features like low-light and HDR photography, optical image stabilization, and depth-sensing became common in smartphone cameras.


== Mechanics ==

Most cameras capture light from the visible light spectrum, while specialized cameras capture other portions of the electromagnetic spectrum, such as infrared.
All cameras use the same basic design: light enters an enclosed box through a converging or convex lens and an image is recorded on a light-sensitive medium. A shutter mechanism controls the length of time that light enters the camera.
Most cameras also have a viewfinder, which shows the scene to be recorded, along with means to adjust various combinations of focus, aperture and shutter speed.


=== Exposure control ===


==== Aperture ====

Light enters the camera through an aperture, an opening adjusted by overlapping plates called the aperture ring. Typically located in the lens, this opening can be widened or narrowed to alter the amount of light that strikes the film or sensor. The size of the aperture can be set manually, by rotating the lens or adjusting a dial or automatically based on readings from an internal light meter.

As the aperture is adjusted, the opening expands and contracts in increments called f-stops. The smaller the f-stop, the more light is allowed to enter the lens, increasing the exposure. Typically, f-stops range from f/1.4 to f/32 in standard increments: 1.4, 2, 2.8, 4, 5.6, 8, 11, 16, 22, and 32. The light entering the camera is halved with each increasing increment.
The wider opening at lower f-stops narrows the range of focus so the background is blurry while the foreground is in focus. This depth of field increases as the aperture closes. A narrow aperture results in a high depth of field, meaning that objects at many different distances from the camera will appear to be in focus. What is acceptably in focus is determined by the circle of confusion, the photographic technique, the equipment in use and the degree of magnification expected of the final image.


==== Shutter ====

The shutter, along with the aperture, is one of two ways to control the amount of light entering the camera. The shutter determines the duration that the light-sensitive surface is exposed to light. The shutter opens, light enters the camera and exposes the film or sensor to light, and then the shutter closes.

There are two types of mechanical shutters: the leaf-type shutter and the focal-plane shutter. The leaf-type uses a circular iris diaphragm maintained under spring tension inside or just behind the lens that rapidly opens and closes when the shutter is released. 
More commonly, a focal-plane shutter is used. This shutter operates close to the film plane and employs metal plates or cloth curtains with an opening that passes across the light-sensitive surface. The curtains or plates have an opening that is pulled across the film plane during exposure. The focal-plane shutter is typically used in single-lens reflex (SLR) cameras, since covering the film (rather than blocking the light passing through the lens) allows the photographer to view the image through the lens at all times, except during the exposure itself. Covering the film also facilitates removing the lens from a loaded camera, as many SLRs have interchangeable lenses.
A digital camera may use a mechanical or electronic shutter, the latter of which is common in smartphone cameras. Electronic shutters either record data from the entire sensor simultaneously (a global shutter) or record the data line by line across the sensor (a rolling shutter). In movie cameras, a rotary shutter opens and closes in sync with the advancement of each frame of film.
The duration for which the shutter is open is called the shutter speed or exposure time. Typical exposure times can range from one second to 1/1,000 of a second, though longer and shorter durations are not uncommon. In the early stages of photography, exposures were often several minutes long. These long exposure times often resulted in blurry images, as a single object is recorded in multiple places across a single image for the duration of the exposure. To prevent this, shorter exposure times can be used. Very short exposure times can capture fast-moving action and eliminate motion blur. However, shorter exposure times require more light to produce a properly exposed image, so shortening the exposure time is not always possible.
Like aperture settings, exposure times increment in powers of two. The two settings determine the exposure value (EV), a measure of how much light is recorded during the exposure. There is a direct relationship between the exposure times and aperture settings so that if the exposure time is lengthened one step, but the aperture opening is also narrowed one step, then the amount of light that contacts the film or sensor is the same.


==== Light meter ====

In most modern cameras, the amount of light entering the camera is measured using a built-in light meter or exposure meter. Taken through the lens (called TTL metering), these readings are taken using a panel of light-sensitive semiconductors. They are used to calculate optimal exposure settings. These settings are typically determined automatically as the reading is used by the camera's microprocessor. The reading from the light meter is incorporated with aperture settings, exposure times, and film or sensor sensitivity to calculate the optimal exposure.
Light meters typically average the light in a scene to 18% middle gray. More advanced cameras are more nuanced in their metering—weighing the center of the frame more heavily (center-weighted metering), considering the differences in light across the image (matrix metering), or allowing the photographer to take a light reading at a specific point within the image (spot metering).


=== Lens ===

A camera lens is an assembly of multiple optical elements, typically made from high-quality glass. Its primary function is to focus light onto a camera's film or digital sensor, thereby producing an image. This process significantly influences image quality, the overall appearance of the photo, and which parts of the scene are brought into focus.
A camera lens is constructed from a series of lens elements, small pieces of glass arranged to form an image accurately on the light-sensitive surface. Each element is designed to reduce optical aberrations, or distortions, such as chromatic aberration (a failure of the lens to focus all colors at the same point), vignetting (darkening of image corners), and distortion (bending or warping of the image). The degree of these distortions can vary depending on the subject of the photo.
The focal length of the lens, measured in millimeters, plays a critical role as it determines how much of the scene the camera can capture and how large the objects appear. Wide-angle lenses provide a broad view of the scene, while telephoto lenses capture a narrower view but magnify the objects. The focal length also influences the ease of taking clear pictures handheld, with longer lengths making it more challenging to avoid blur from small camera movements.
Two primary types of lenses include zoom and prime lenses. A zoom lens allows for changing its focal length within a certain range, providing the convenience of adjusting the scene capture without moving the camera or changing the lens. A prime lens, in contrast, has a fixed focal length. While less flexible, prime lenses often provide superior image quality, are typically lighter, and perform better in low light.
Focus involves adjusting the lens elements to sharpen the image of the subject at various distances. The focus is adjusted through the focus ring on the lens, which moves the lens elements closer or further from the sensor. Autofocus is a feature included in many lenses, which uses a motor within the lens to adjust the focus quickly and precisely based on the lens's detection of contrast or phase differences. This feature can be enabled or disabled using switches on the lens body.
Advanced lenses may include mechanical image stabilization systems that move lens elements or the image sensor itself to counteract camera shake, especially beneficial in low-light conditions or at slow shutter speeds. Lens hoods, filters, and caps are accessories used alongside a lens to enhance image quality, protect the lens, or achieve specific effects.


=== Viewfinder ===

The camera's viewfinder provides a real-time approximation of what will be captured by the sensor or film. It assists photographers in aligning, focusing, and adjusting the composition, lighting, and exposure of their shots, enhancing the accuracy of the final image.
Viewfinders fall into two primary categories: optical and electronic. Optical viewfinders, commonly found in Single-Lens Reflex (SLR) cameras, use a system of mirrors or prisms to reflect light from the lens to the viewfinder, providing a clear, real-time view of the scene. Electronic viewfinders, typical in mirrorless cameras, project an electronic image onto a small display, offering a wider range of information such as live exposure previews and histograms, albeit at the cost of potential lag and higher battery consumption. Specialized viewfinder systems exist for specific applications, like subminiature cameras for spying or underwater photography.
Parallax error, resulting from misalignment between the viewfinder and lens axes, can cause inaccurate representations of the subject's position. While negligible with distant subjects, this error becomes prominent with closer ones. Some viewfinders incorporate parallax-compensating devices to mitigate that issue.


=== Film and sensor ===
Image capture in a camera occurs when light strikes a light-sensitive surface: photographic film or a digital sensor. Housed within the camera body, the film or sensor records the light's pattern when the shutter is briefly opened to allow light to pass during the exposure.


==== Film camera ====
Loading film into a film camera is a manual process. The film, typically housed in a cartridge, is loaded into a designated slot in the camera. One end of the film strip, the film leader, is manually threaded onto a take-up spool. Once the back of the camera is closed, the film advance lever or knob is used to ensure the film is correctly placed. The photographer then winds the film, either manually or automatically depending on the camera, to position a blank portion of the film in the path of the light. Each time a photo is taken, the film advance mechanism moves the exposed film out of the way, bringing a new, unexposed section of film into position for the next shot.
The film must be advanced after each shot to prevent double exposure — where the same section of film is exposed to light twice, resulting in overlapped images. Once all frames on the film roll have been exposed, the film is rewound back into the cartridge, ready to be removed from the camera for developing.


==== Digital camera ====
In digital cameras, sensors typically comprise Charge-Coupled Devices (CCDs) or Complementary Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor (CMOS) chips, both of which convert incoming light into electrical charges to form digital images. CCD sensors, though power-intensive, are recognized for their excellent light sensitivity and image quality. Conversely, CMOS sensors offer individual pixel readouts, leading to less power consumption and faster frame rates, with their image quality having improved significantly over time.
Digital cameras convert light into electronic data that can be directly processed and stored. The volume of data generated is dictated by the sensor's size and properties, necessitating storage media such as Compact Flash, Memory Sticks, and SD (Secure Digital) cards. Modern digital cameras typically feature a built-in monitor for immediate image review and adjustments. Digital images are also more readily handled and manipulated by computers, offering a significant advantage in terms of flexibility and post-processing potential over traditional film.


=== Camera accessories ===


==== Flash ====
A flash provides a short burst of bright light during exposure and is a commonly used artificial light source in photography. Most modern flash systems use a battery-powered high-voltage discharge through a gas-filled tube to generate bright light for a very short time (1/1,000 of a second or less).
Many flash units measure the light reflected from the flash to help determine the appropriate duration of the flash. When the flash is attached directly to the camera—typically in a slot at the top of the camera (the flash shoe or hot shoe) or through a cable—activating the shutter on the camera triggers the flash, and the camera's internal light meter can help determine the duration of the flash.
Additional flash equipment can include a light diffuser, mount and stand, reflector, soft box, trigger and cord.


==== Other accessories ====
Accessories for cameras are mainly used for care, protection, special effects, and functions.

Lens hood: used on the end of a lens to block the sun or other light source to prevent glare and lens flare (see also matte box).
Lens cap: covers and protects the camera lens when not in use.
Lens adapter: allows the use of lenses other than those for which the camera was designed.
Filter: allows artificial colors or changes light density.
Lens extension tube: allows close focus in macro photography.
Care and protection: including camera case and cover, maintenance tools, and screen protector.
Camera monitor: provides an off-camera view of the composition with a brighter and more colorful screen, and typically exposes more advanced tools such as framing guides, focus peaking, zebra stripes, waveform monitors (oftentimes as an "RGB parade"), vectorscopes and false color to highlight areas of the image critical to the photographer.
Tripod: primarily used for keeping the camera steady while recording video, doing a long exposure, and time-lapse photography.
Microscope adapter: used to connect a camera to a microscope to photograph what the microscope is examining.
Cable release: used to remotely control the shutter using a remote shutter button that can be connected to the camera via a cable. It can be used to lock the shutter open for the desired period, and it is also commonly used to prevent the camera shake from pressing the built-in camera shutter button.
Dew shield: prevents moisture build-up on the lens.
UV filter: can protect the front element of a lens from scratches, cracks, smudges, dirt, dust, and moisture while keeping a minimum impact on image quality.
Battery and sometimes a charger.
Large format cameras use special equipment that includes a magnifier loupe, view finder, angle finder, and focusing rail/truck. Some professional SLRs can be provided with interchangeable finders for eye-level or waist-level focusing, focusing screens, eyecup, data backs, motor-drives for film transportation or external battery packs.


== Primary types ==


=== Single-lens reflex (SLR) camera ===

In photography, the single-lens reflex camera (SLR) is provided with a mirror to redirect light from the lens to the viewfinder prior to releasing the shutter for composing and focusing an image. When the shutter is released, the mirror swings up and away, allowing the exposure of the photographic medium, and instantly returns after the exposure is finished. No SLR camera before 1954 had this feature, although the mirror on some early SLR cameras was entirely operated by the force exerted on the shutter release and only returned when the finger pressure was released. The Asahiflex II, released by Japanese company Asahi (Pentax) in 1954, was the world's first SLR camera with an instant return mirror.
In the single-lens reflex camera, the photographer sees the scene through the camera lens. This avoids the problem of parallax which occurs when the viewfinder or viewing lens is separated from the taking lens. Single-lens reflex cameras have been made in several formats including sheet film 5x7" and 4x5", roll film 220/120 taking 8,10, 12, or 16 photographs on a 120 roll, and twice that number of a 220 film. These correspond to 6x9, 6x7, 6x6, and 6x4.5 respectively (all dimensions in cm). Notable manufacturers of large format and roll film SLR cameras include Bronica, Graflex, Hasselblad, Seagull, Mamiya and Pentax. However, the most common format of SLR cameras has been 35 mm and subsequently the migration to digital SLR cameras, using almost identical sized bodies and sometimes using the same lens systems.
Almost all SLR cameras use a front-surfaced mirror in the optical path to direct the light from the lens via a viewing screen and pentaprism to the eyepiece. At the time of exposure, the mirror is flipped up out of the light path before the shutter opens. Some early cameras experimented with other methods of providing through-the-lens viewing, including the use of a semi-transparent pellicle as in the Canon Pellix and others with a small periscope such as in the Corfield Periflex series.


=== Large-format camera ===

The large-format camera, taking sheet film, is a direct successor of the early plate cameras and remained in use for high-quality photography and technical, architectural, and industrial photography. There are three common types: the view camera, with its monorail and field camera variants, and the press camera. They have extensible bellows with the lens and shutter mounted on a lens plate at the front. Backs taking roll film and later digital backs are available in addition to the standard dark slide back. These cameras have a wide range of movements allowing very close control of focus and perspective. Composition and focusing are done on view cameras by viewing a ground-glass screen which is replaced by the film to make the exposure; they are suitable for static subjects only and are slow to use.


==== Plate camera ====

The earliest cameras produced in significant numbers were plate cameras, using sensitized glass plates. Light entered a lens mounted on a lens board which was separated from the plate by extendible bellows. There were simple box cameras for glass plates but also single-lens reflex cameras with interchangeable lenses and even for color photography (Autochrome Lumière). Many of these cameras had controls to raise, lower, and tilt the lens forwards or backward to control perspective.
Focusing of these plate cameras was by the use of a ground glass screen at the point of focus. Because lens design only allowed rather small aperture lenses, the image on the ground glass screen was faint and most photographers had a dark cloth to cover their heads to allow focusing and composition to be carried out more quickly. When focus and composition were satisfactory, the ground glass screen was removed, and a sensitized plate was put in its place protected by a dark slide. To make the exposure, the dark decline was carefully slid out and the shutter opened, and then closed and the dark fall replaced.
Glass plates were later replaced by sheet film in a dark slide for sheet film; adapter sleeves were made to allow sheet film to be used in plate holders. In addition to the ground glass, a simple optical viewfinder was often fitted.


=== Medium-format camera ===

Medium-format cameras have a film size between the large-format cameras and smaller 35 mm cameras. Typically these systems use 120 or 220 roll film. The most common image sizes are 6×4.5 cm, 6×6 cm and 6×7 cm; the older 6×9 cm is rarely used. The designs of this kind of camera show greater variation than their larger brethren, ranging from monorail systems through the classic Hasselblad model with separate backs, to smaller rangefinder cameras. There are even compact amateur cameras available in this format.


==== Twin-lens reflex camera ====

Twin-lens reflex cameras used a pair of nearly identical lenses: one to form the image and one as a viewfinder. The lenses were arranged with the viewing lens immediately above the taking lens. The viewing lens projects an image onto a viewing screen which can be seen from above. Some manufacturers such as Mamiya also provided a reflex head to attach to the viewing screen to allow the camera to be held to the eye when in use. The advantage of a TLR was that it could be easily focused using the viewing screen and that under most circumstances the view seen on the viewing screen was identical to that recorded on film. At close distances, however, parallax errors were encountered, and some cameras also included an indicator to show what part of the composition would be excluded.
Some TLRs had interchangeable lenses, but as these had to be paired lenses, they were relatively heavy and did not provide the range of focal lengths that the SLR could support. Most TLRs used 120 or 220 films; some used the smaller 127 films.


=== Compact cameras ===


==== Instant camera ====

After exposure, every photograph is taken through pinch rollers inside the instant camera. Thereby the developer paste contained in the paper 'sandwich' is distributed on the image. After a minute, the cover sheet just needs to be removed and one gets a single original positive image with a fixed format. With some systems, it was also possible to create an instant image negative, from which then could be made copies in the photo lab. The ultimate development was the SX-70 system of Polaroid, in which a row of ten shots – engine driven – could be made without having to remove any cover sheets from the picture. There were instant cameras for a variety of formats, as well as adapters for instant film use in medium- and large-format cameras.


==== Subminiature camera ====

Subminiature cameras were first produced in the twentieth century and use film significantly smaller than 35mm. The expensive 8×11mm Minox, the only type of camera produced by the company from 1937 to 1976, became very widely known and was often used for espionage (the Minox company later also produced larger cameras). Later inexpensive subminiatures were made for general use, some using rewound 16 mm cine film. Image quality with these small film sizes was limited.


==== Folding camera ====

The introduction of films enabled the existing designs for plate cameras to be made much smaller and for the baseplate to be hinged so that it could be folded up, compressing the bellows. These designs were very compact and small models were dubbed vest pocket cameras. One of the smallest and best-selling cameras was the Vest Pocket Kodak, sold in two generations between 1912 and 1934. Folding roll film cameras were preceded by folding plate cameras, more compact than other designs.


==== Box camera ====

Box cameras were introduced as budget-level cameras and had few if any controls. The original box Brownie models had a small reflex viewfinder mounted on the top of the camera and had no aperture or focusing controls and just a simple shutter. Later models such as the Brownie 127 had larger direct view optical viewfinders together with a curved film path to reduce the impact of deficiencies in the lens.


=== Rangefinder camera ===

As camera lens technology developed and wide aperture lenses became more common, rangefinder cameras were introduced to make focusing more precise. Early rangefinders had two separate viewfinder windows, one of which is linked to the focusing mechanisms and moved right or left as the focusing ring is turned. The two separate images are brought together on a ground glass viewing screen. When vertical lines in the object being photographed meet exactly in the combined image, the object is in focus. A normal composition viewfinder is also provided. Later the viewfinder and rangefinder were combined. Many rangefinder cameras had interchangeable lenses, each lens requiring its range- and viewfinder linkages.
Rangefinder cameras were produced in half- and full-frame 35 mm and roll film (medium format).


=== Motion picture cameras ===

A movie camera or a video camera operates similarly to a still camera, except it records a series of static images in rapid succession, commonly at a rate of 24 frames per second. When the images are combined and displayed in order, the illusion of motion is achieved.
Cameras that capture many images in sequence are known as movie cameras or as cine cameras in Europe; those designed for single images are still cameras. However, these categories overlap as still cameras are often used to capture moving images in special effects work and many modern cameras can quickly switch between still and motion recording modes.
A ciné camera or movie camera takes a rapid sequence of photographs on an image sensor or strips of film. In contrast to a still camera, which captures a single snapshot at a time, the ciné camera takes a series of images, each called a frame, through the use of an intermittent mechanism.
The frames are later played back in a ciné projector at a specific speed, called the frame rate (number of frames per second). While viewing, a person's visual system merges the separate pictures to create the illusion of motion. The first ciné camera was built around 1888 and by 1890 several types were being manufactured. The standard film size for ciné cameras was quickly established as 35mm film and this remained in use until the transition to digital cinematography. Other professional standard formats include 70 mm film and 16 mm film whilst amateur filmmakers used 9.5 mm film, 8 mm film, or Standard 8 and Super 8 before the move into digital format.
The size and complexity of ciné cameras vary greatly depending on the uses required of the camera. Some professional equipment is very large and too heavy to be handheld whilst some amateur cameras were designed to be very small and light for single-handed operation.


==== Professional video camera ====

A professional video camera (often called a television camera even though the use has spread beyond television) is a high-end device for creating electronic moving images (as opposed to a movie camera, that earlier recorded the images on film). Originally developed for use in television studios, they are now also used for music videos, direct-to-video movies, corporate and educational videos, marriage videos, etc.
These cameras earlier used vacuum tubes and later electronic image sensors.


==== Camcorders ====

A camcorder is an electronic device combining a video camera and a video recorder. Although marketing materials may use the colloquial term "camcorder", the name on the package and manual is often "video camera recorder". Most devices capable of recording video are camera phones and digital cameras primarily intended for still pictures; the term "camcorder" is used to describe a portable, self-contained device, with video capture and recording its primary function.


=== Digital camera ===

A digital camera (or digicam) is a camera that encodes digital images and videos and stores them for later reproduction. They typically use semiconductor image sensors. Most cameras sold today are digital, and they are incorporated into many devices ranging from mobile phones (called camera phones) to vehicles.
Digital and film cameras share an optical system, typically using a lens of variable aperture to focus light onto an image pickup device. The aperture and shutter admit the correct amount of light to the imager, just as with film but the image pickup device is electronic rather than chemical. However, unlike film cameras, digital cameras can display images on a screen immediately after being captured or recorded, and store and delete images from memory. Most digital cameras can also record moving videos with sound. Some digital cameras can crop and stitch pictures and perform other elementary image editing.
Consumers adopted digital cameras in the 1990s. Professional video cameras transitioned to digital around the 2000s–2010s. Finally, movie cameras transitioned to digital in the 2010s.

The first camera using digital electronics to capture and store images was developed by Kodak engineer Steven Sasson in 1975. He used a charge-coupled device (CCD) provided by Fairchild Semiconductor, which provided only 0.01 megapixels to capture images. Sasson combined the CCD device with movie camera parts to create a digital camera that saved black and white images onto a cassette tape. The images were then read from the cassette and viewed on a TV monitor. Later, cassette tapes were replaced by flash memory.
In 1986, Japanese company Nikon introduced an analog-recording electronic single-lens reflex camera, the Nikon SVC.
The first full-frame digital SLR cameras were developed in Japan from around 2000 to 2002: the MZ-D by Pentax, the N Digital by Contax's Japanese R6D team, and the EOS-1Ds by Canon. Gradually in the 2000s, the full-frame DSLR became the dominant camera type for professional photography.
On most digital cameras a display, often a liquid-crystal display (LCD), permits the user to view the scene to be recorded and settings such as ISO speed, exposure, and shutter speed.


==== Camera phone ====

In 2000, Sharp introduced the world's first digital camera phone, the J-SH04 J-Phone, in Japan. By the mid-2000s, higher-end cell phones had an integrated digital camera, and by the beginning of the 2010s, almost all smartphones had an integrated digital camera.


== See also ==

Camera matrix
History of the camera
List of camera types
List of digital camera brands


== Footnotes ==


== References ==


== Further reading ==


== External links ==

How cameras works at How stuff works.

The 2026 Metro Manila Film Festival is the upcoming 52nd edition of the annual Metro Manila Film Festival which starts on December 25, 2026. During the festival, no foreign films are shown in Philippine theaters (excluding IMAX, 4DX, and ScreenX).


== Entries ==


=== Feature films ===
The first four official entries were announced on July 7, 2026. The announcement was made during the kickoff event held at Greenhills Mall in San Juan City.
The first four entries were chosen based on 24 submitted scripts. MMFF Executive Committee member Boots Anson-Roa explained the criteria for the chosen films: 40% technical and creative merit, 40% commercial value, 10% global appeal, 10% for the infusion of Filipino values.
During the presentation, Metropolitan Manila Development Authority chairman Don Artes also announced that the price cap for MMFF 2026 films is set at ₱299. However, the prices may still go lower depending on the decision of movie theaters nationwide. This was deliberated together with Cinema Exhibitors Association of the Philippines due to the raised concerns regarding high ticket prices in previous edition of the film festival.


== Parade of Stars ==
During the announcement of the first batch of entries, MMDA chairman Atty. Romando Artes announce that aside from the annual festival parade in Metro Manila, the parade will also be conducted for the first time in Bacolod on December 11, 2026. San Juan City and Mandaluyong City will jointly host the parade of stars for Metro Manila on December 18, 2026.


== References ==

Zambia competed at the 2022 Commonwealth Games in Birmingham, England between 28 July and 8 August 2022. It was Zambia's fifteenth appearance at the Games.
Muzala Samukonga and Margret Tembo were the country's opening ceremony flagbearers.


== Medalists ==


== Competitors ==
The following is the list of number of competitors participating at the Games per sport/discipline.


== Athletics ==

A squad of six athletes was confirmed as of 2 July 2022.

Men
Track and road events

Women
Track and road events


== Badminton ==

As of 1 June 2022, Zambia qualified for the mixed team event via the BWF World Rankings.

Singles

Doubles

Mixed team

Summary

Squad

Group stage


== Boxing ==

A squad of four boxers was confirmed as of 2 July 2022.


== Cycling ==

A squad of two cyclists was confirmed as of 2 July 2022.


=== Road ===


=== Mountain bike ===


== Judo ==

A squad of five judoka was confirmed as of 2 July 2022.


== Para powerlifting ==

As of 23 May 2022, Zambia qualified one powerlifter.


== Rugby sevens ==

As of 24 April 2022, Zambia qualified for the men's tournament. This was achieved through their position in the 2022 Africa Men's Sevens.
The thirteen-man roster was officially named as of 2 July 2022.

Summary


=== Men's tournament ===

Roster

Pool C

Classification Quarterfinals

13th-16th Semifinals


== Squash ==

A squad of two players was confirmed as of 2 July 2022.


== Swimming ==

A squad of four swimmers was confirmed as of 2 July 2022.

Men

Women

Mixed


== References ==


== External links ==
Commonwealth Games Association of Zambia Official site Archived 22 April 2022 at the Wayback Machine

Bonnyrigg Sports Club is the home of the Bonnyrigg White Eagles football (soccer) club in Bonnyrigg, New South Wales, Australia.
The ground has played host to some notable matches over the years but none more so than the friendly clash between the Bonnyrigg White Eagles and the high-profile 1991 European Cup Champions Red Star Belgrade, who were in Australia on a mid-season break in January 2001.


== History ==
The ground dates back to May 1966, when 7 acres (28,000 m2) of land was purchased for the building of a social club and football grounds. Over the years the grounds and club itself were improved when in 1986 it became the permanent home ground for the Avala Sports Club (which would become the Bonnyrigg White Eagles in 1993).
In 2001, an additional 3 acres (12,000 m2) of land was purchased as part of a plan to renovate the club and expand the training grounds. This was completed in October 2005.


== External links ==
Bonnyrigg White Eagles Official Club Website
Bonnyrigg Sports Club Official Website

Michael Joseph Costello (4 July 1904 – 20 October 1986) was an Irish rebel and military leader during the Irish War of Independence.


== Biography ==

Michael Joseph Costello was born on 4 July 1904 in Cloughjordan, County Tipperary, son of Denis Costello, headteacher in Cloughjordan National School, a native of Kilmihil, County Clare, and Teresa Moynihan, of County Offaly. He was the eldest of nine children, three of whom died during an epidemic of whooping cough.
His godfather was Thomas MacDonagh, who signed the Proclamation of the Irish Republic in 1916 and was one of the seven leaders of the Easter Rising. Costello became involved in the Irish War of Independence of 1919–1921, after seeing his father, a school teacher, arrested by the Black and Tans. He served with the Old IRA as an intelligence officer with the No. 1 Tipperary Brigade.
Costello joined the Irish National Army in 1922 and fought in the Irish Civil War of 1922–1923. Not long before he died in action, General Michael Collins promoted him to Colonel-Commandant when Costello was still only eighteen years old. He served as National Army Director of Intelligence from 1924 to 1926. He attended the US Army's Command and Staff College at Fort Leavenworth from 1926 to 1927. He advised the Free State on establishing an Irish Military College, of which he would later be appointed director of training in 1931 and commandant two years later, in 1933.
During The Emergency, he commanded the Irish Army's 1st Division, which was primarily responsible for the defence of the south coast of Ireland, as O/C Southern Command from 1940.  The division, a volunteer force, had able personnel, but was poorly equipped. In Costello's words,

Given the inadequate armament and signal equipment of the Forces, training concentrated on attaining superiority over a potential invader in night operations with small forces expected to yield capture of enemy arms and ammunition, in cross country mobility and in marksmanship and the use of mines and explosives generally. The platoons made silent advances during dark nights over difficult and unknown country.
In 1944, one of Costello's units carried out a 44-mile (71 km) march carrying 40-pound (18 kg) packs in 11 hours. Costello was instrumental in founding An Cosantóir in 1941. He was promoted to major general in 1941 and to lieutenant general in 1945. He retired from the Army in 1946, after which he became the managing director of the Irish Sugar Company. At Irish Sugar, he bought the first electronic computer in Ireland from Dora Metcalf in 1957. 
He died on 20 October 1986, aged 82.


== References ==


== External links ==
War Room profile
1980 Interview


== Bibliography ==


=== Writings ===
Costello, Colonel M.J, "Guerilla Warfare" in (ed.) O'Reilly, Our Struggle For Independence (Cork 2009), pp. 187–98
Costello, Col. M.J, "A New Type of Warfare? German Strategy and Tactics, Parts I and II" in O'Reilly pp. 199–216
Costello, Col M.J, "Irish Soldiers Abroad: The Story of Ireland's Exile Soldiers", in O'Reilly, pp. 217–22
Costello, Col M.J, "The Principles of War", 4 parts in O'Reilly, pp. 223–44


=== Secondary sources ===
Duggan, John.P A History of the Irish Army (Dublin 1991)
Harkness, David, The Restless Dominion: The Irish Free State and the British Commonwealth 1921-31 (London 1969)
O'Halpin, Eunan, Defending Ireland: The Irish State and its Enemies since 1922 (Oxford 1999)

William King Hannah (6 August 1921 – 1978) was a Scottish professional footballer who made 26 Scottish League appearances for Albion Rovers and 121 appearances in the English Football League playing as an inside forward for Preston North End and Barrow.
Hannah was born in Shotts, Lanarkshire, in 1921 and died in Preston, Lancashire, in 1978.


== Notes ==


== References ==

Thomas Bradshaw is an American playwright whose work has been extensively reviewed. He is the recipient of PEN/Laura Pels International Foundation for Theater Award as the Emerging American Playwright and of the Foundation for Contemporary Arts Grants to Artists award (2012).


== Plays ==
The Seagull/Woodstock, NY (2023) - An adaptation of Anton Chekhov's The Seagull.
Thomas & Sally (2017)
Fulfillment (2015)
Intimacy (2014)
Job (2012)
Burning (2011)
Mary (2011)
The Bereaved (2009)
Southern Promises (2008)
Purity (2007)
Prophet (2005)


== Reactions ==
Bradshaw's work Thomas & Sally was met with protests because the play debates whether Thomas Jefferson and Sally Hemings could have been in love. Protestors argue that there is no room for debate because Hemings was Jefferson's slave.


== References ==

Timothy Mixon (born July 8, 1984) is an American former football cornerback. He was originally signed by the Seattle Seahawks as an undrafted free agent in 2007. He played college football at California.
Mixon was also a member of the Chicago Bears, Cleveland Browns, and New England Patriots.


== Early life ==
He played high school football at Dominguez High School in Compton.


== External links ==
California Golden Bears bio
New England Patriots bio

The 29th Pennsylvania House of Representatives District is in southeastern Pennsylvania and has been represented by Tim Brennan since 2023.


== District profile ==
The 29th Pennsylvania House of Representatives District is located in Bucks County and includes the following areas:

Buckingham Township
Chalfont
Doylestown
Doylestown Township
New Britain
New Hope
Solebury Township


== Representatives ==


== Recent election results ==


== References ==
Cox, Harold (2004). "Legislatures - 1776-2004". Wilkes University Election Statistics Project. Wilkes University.


== External links ==
District map from the United States Census Bureau
Pennsylvania House Legislative District Maps from the Pennsylvania Redistricting Commission.
Population Data for District 29 from the Pennsylvania Redistricting Commission.

A coffee bag is a container for shipping and storing coffee. Coffee beans are usually transported in large jute sacks, while coffee sold to consumers may be packaged as beans or ground coffee in a small, sealed plastic bag.


== Bulk coffee ==
Large bulk bags, burlap bags or gunny sacks are traditionally used for storage and transport of coffee beans. Often, it is made of jute and has a content of 60 kilograms (130 pounds); this type of bag originated in Brazil and became a worldwide standard. It also became a measurement unit to this day, for example FAO's statistics on coffee production are expressed in 60-kg bags.
Jute fibers are treated with mineral oil, or historically whale oil, to improve spinnability, which raised questions about coffee contamination from these hydrocarbons, but further studies showed it to be infinitesimal. Bags with synthetic fibers (woven or non-woven) are commonly used now.
Once used, these decorative bags can be recycled or upcycled for many uses, including in clothing.
The 60 kg sack is starting to be replaced by huge polypropylene or polyethylene bags, such as the  flexible intermediate bulk container.  These are increasingly used for coffee exports - especially from Brazil.  Intermodal shipping containers are common for international shipping.


== Consumer packaging ==

Smaller bags are used by consumers for coffee beans or ground coffee. Multi-layer graphics bags have largely replaced steel cans (tins) for consumer ground coffee. There is a tendency for pressure from carbon dioxide to build up in these barrier bags. Special pressure relief valves have been developed to relieve the pressure without letting the atmosphere into the bags. Valves are either heat sealed or attached by adhesive. The bags are not readily recyclable, but compare favourably in life-cycle studies with metal cans on broader issues.


=== Examples ===


== References ==
Yam, K.L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6

JSC Roszheldorproject is a Russian company which carries out design and survey works for construction, overhaul and renovation projects in railway, industrial, social and cultural spheres, for construction and renovation of commercial property and residential constructions.
The company was formed in 2006 through the merger of design and research institutes, which were formerly a part of JSC Russian Railways (in December, 2014 the company changed the type of business entity from OJSC to JSC according to Russian legislation). The institutes of Roszheldorproject perform the full range of works for the integrated design of railway infrastructure and socially significant facilities. The company takes an active part in the implementation of global high speed rail project. Roszeldorproject was the general designer for a number of infrastructure transport projects that were key projects of the Winter Olympic Games in Sochi in 2014.


== Structure ==

Today, the company consists of 20 branches: 

Giprotransput,
Giprotranssignalsvyaz,
Dalzheldorproject,
Zheldorproject Povolzhya,
Zabaykalzheldorproject,
Irkutskzheldorproject,
Kavzheldorproject,
Krasnoyarskzheldorproject,
Lengiprotransput,
Moszheldorproject,
Nizhegorodzheldorproject,
Saratovzheldorproject,
Sibgiprotransput,
Sibzheldorproject,
Transelectroproject,
Uralzheldorproject,
Chelyabzheldorproject,
Yugovoszheldorproject,
Yaroslavzheldorproject,
Zheldorenergo
Dalgiprotrans (a subsidiary company) and regional divisions.


== Projects ==


=== Current projects ===
Source:

Development of railway infrastructure in Eastern Polygon of JSC Russian Railways (renovation of the Trans-Siberian and the Baikal-Amur mainlines);
Reconstruction and development of Small Moscow railway ring. Organization of passenger railway service;
Complex renovation of railway stations and design of transport and transit centers for Moscow railway junction and Russian regions;
Development of railway infrastructure to improve urban and suburban transport services at Yaroslavskoe, Gorkovskoe, Kurskoe, Kazanskoe, Paveletskoe, Kievskoe directions;
Arrangements to increase railway traffic speed at the directions to Odintsovo, Usovo, Novopredelkino;
Construction of side railway tracksand electrification of the Vyborg –Primorsk – Ermilovo section of the Oktyabrskaya Railway;
Complex renovation of railway tracks on approaches to sea ports of Black and Baltic sea;
Development of railway infrastructure of the Tobolsk – Surgut –Korotchaevo section of the Sverdlovskaya Railway;
Complex development of the Mezhdurechensk – Taishet section of the Krasnoyarskaya Railway.


=== Several completed projects in Russia ===
Arrangement of railway connection Sochi – Adler – Sochi airport and construction of a new segment Adler – Sochi airport as a part of transport system of Sochi-2014 Olympic objects;
Renovation of concert hall in Omsk Region at 27a Lenina Str., Omsk
Complex renovation of railway stations of Moscow railway junction;
Complex renovation of Saint Petersburg — Moscow railway line to adapt to high speed passenger trains;
Organization of passenger terminals for airline passenger check-in and transportation at Belorussky, Savyolovsky, Paveletsky and Kievsky railway terminals in Moscow
Arrangement of high speed passenger communication at Moscow – Nizhny Novgorod direction
Construction of orthodox church, Promyshlennaya Str., Lesosibirsk
Construction of orthodox Church in Bolotnoe, Bolotnoe district, Novosibirsk Region
Reconstruction of General Education School No. 56
Construction of recreation facilities and rehabilitation centers
Reconstruction of the Finlyandsky Railway Bridge on the river Neva in Saint Petersburg
Construction of a new line at the Zhuravka – Millerovo section; completed 2017-08-07, 122.5 km double-track, 25 kV 50 Hz, maximum speed of 160 km/h, cost 56 billion RUB.


=== Major projects abroad ===
Pre-design documentation for construction of new railway infrastructure in Mongolia
Electrification of railways in Islamic Republic of Iran
Participation in reconstruction project for railway line in Kazakhstan
Design and survey works for reconstruction of railway section in Democratic People's Republic of Korea
Overhaul of railway infrastructure at the section State border of Russian Federation – Sukhumi of the Abkhazian railway


== See also ==

Russian Railways
Rail transport in Russia


== References ==


== External links ==
rzdp.com (in Russian)

Naveed Gill is a Czech polo player.


== Early life and professional career ==
Naveed Gill founded the first ever polo club in the Czech Republic, Prague Polo Club in 2008, which was renamed to the Gill Polo Club, registered with Czech Ministry of the Interior 2008.
In 2011, in order to develop awareness, the first International Polo Match between the Czech Republic and Slovak Republic took place in Chlumec Nad Cidlinou organised between Prague Polo Club and the Danube Polo Club of Slovakia was organised by Naveed Gill to raise more awareness of horse polo in the Czech Republic.
Gill hosted Polo at the International Horse Festival in Pardubice in 2012.
In 2014, Gill organized the first snow polo competition in the Czech Republic and the first Polo in the Park at the Czech Botanical Gardens in Průhonice.


== Personal life ==
He lives in the Central Bohemian Region.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Laffaye, Horace A. (2015-03-06). The Polo Encyclopedia, 2d ed. McFarland. ISBN 978-1-4766-1956-9.
"Program Prague Polo Cup 2018 by PRAGUE POLO CUP". issuu.com. 2018-08-24. Retrieved 2023-08-17.

Goldaş or Goldaş Jewellery is a Turkish jewellery fabricator and retail sales company. Goldaş markets its product offerings under multiple brand names, including Goldas, Assortie, SilverD’sign, WeddingD’sign, Danthel, Chip Gold, and Chip Silver.


== History ==
Goldaş Jewellery was founded in Istanbul, Turkey in 1993 by the Yalınkaya Group. In 1997, Goldaş was reorganized as a subsidiary of a new subsidiary Goldart Holding under a new company Yalınkaya Holding A.Ş. From 1998 to 2008, Goldaş saw rapid growth as a company as measured by a 5,609% increase or $955 million in its turnover and was recognized by CNBC-e Business Magazine as first among Turkey's 100 fastest growing companies.
On January 22, 2009, and January 23, 2009, Goldart Holding bought 1.6 million shares of public stock to increase its stake to 55.5% or 80 million shares of Goldaş. After the stock appreciated by 59% in three months time, Goldart Holding sold 11.4 million shares of Goldaş for 14.14 million Turkish liras to three investment funds: Regulus Emerging Market Fund, Neos Emerging Capital Investment, and Porrima Investment.


=== Financial disputes ===
Goldaş has been involved in several major financial disputes since 2008. In March 2008, Société Générale filed suit against Goldaş for not returning a large consignment of gold. In September 2009, Bank of Nova Scotia and Commerzbank filed suits against Goldaş for US$10.9 million and US$11.1 million, respectively. In April 2013, a judgment from the Bakırköy Commercial Court of First Instance in Istanbul had been made in favor of Commerzbank to force the bankruptcy of Goldaş; they announced their plans to appeal the verdict while still engaged with Bank of Nova Scotia in the Istanbul Anatolia Commercial Court of First Instance. Later that year, Turkey's High Court of Appeals effectively reversed the bankruptcy judgment of the lower Turkish court by heeding Goldaş's request for adjudication under British law before subjugation under Turkish bankruptcy law.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Goldaş
Financial Information on Goldaş Archived 2011-09-28 at the Wayback Machine
Goldaş Regional Office Locations
Goldaş Promotional Video
Goldaş on Hürriyet Daily News
Goldaş on Anadolu Agency

The 1970–71 Serie C was the thirty-third edition of Serie C, the third highest league in the Italian football league system.


== Girone A ==


== Girone B ==


== Girone C ==


== References and sources ==
Almanacco Illustrato del Calcio – La Storia 1898–2004, Panini Edizioni, Modena, September 2005

Manushulanta Okkate (transl. All Humans are Equal) is a 1976 Indian Telugu-language drama film, produced by Duddu Venkateswara Rao and V. Mahesh under the Aditya Chitra banner and directed by Dasari Narayana Rao. It stars N. T. Rama Rao, Jamuna and Manjula, with music composed by S. Rajeswara Rao. The film was a box office hit.


== Plot ==
The film narrates a story with a message of universal brotherhood and equality between the rich & poor.
During the pre-independence era, Zamindar Sarva Rayudu was a sovereign who suppressed & enslaved the public of his territory. Rajendra Babu / Raja, his heir, also walks in his footsteps. Once, Radha, a plucky village girl, hinders his tyranny, whose words lead to a meteoritic transformation in Raja. Sarva Rayudu ruins her province when Raja quits and defies his father's despotism. He resides with the villagers and shares their hardships. Meanwhile, Sarva Rayudu goes abroad to fix his daughter Indumati's nuptial. At that time, Raja endears and knits Radha, and she conceives. On his return, Sarva Rayudu shrinks from mingling with the underdogs and edicts to slay Radha. Raja succeeds in securing her and crossing the region but sacrifices his life. Independence arrives, and Radha gives birth to a baby boy, Ramu. 
Years pass, and Radha molds her son into a proficient who falls for his collegian Shanti. Destiny makes her his paternal aunt's daughter. Hence, Radha rejects the match and divulges the past. Ramu steps into Sarva Rayudu's realm of empire and challenges his grandfather with his identity. He discovers the people still struggling with the violations. Ramu sets out to improve their livelihood by forming an association. So, Sarva Rayudu endangers Radha, who binds her son with a bond of affection. However, she frees him, viewing the area's woes. Then Ramu relieved their lands from Sarva Rayudu, thwarting the feudal system. Next, they all farm the land together with their forces. At that point, enraged Sarva Rayudu covertly sets the harvest. It induces public rebellion and onslaughts on Sarva Rayudu. At last, Radha shields him under the principle of Non-Violence, which reforms Sarva Rayudu. Finally, the movie ends happily with the proclamation that All Humans are Equal.


== Cast ==
N. T. Rama Rao as Rajendra Babu & Ramu
Jamuna as Radha
Manjula as Shanti
Satyanarayana as  Sarvarayudu
Allu Ramalingaiah as Chalamaiah
Nagesh as Ganapati
Rajasri as Indumathi Devi
Ramaprabha as  Mutyalu & Rama
Kakarala as Sundara Chary
Kommineni Seshagiri Rao
Chalapathi Rao


== Soundtrack ==
Music composed by S. Rajeswara Rao.


== Accolades ==
Nandi Award for Second Best Story Writer – V. Mahesh (1976)


== Legacy ==
The title of the song "Ninne Pelladata" inspires a 1996 film of the same name. Also, the title of the song "Anubhavinchu Raja" inspires a 2021 film of the same name.


== References ==


== External links ==
Manushulanta Okkate at IMDb

Caren Norden is a German cell and developmental biologist who is a Principal Investigator at the Gulbenkian Institute for Molecular Medicine, in Portugal. Formerly, she was Deputy Director for Science at the Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciência and worked as a group leader at the Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics. Her research considers the cell biology of tissue morphogenesis.


== Early life and education ==
Norden was an undergraduate student in biochemistry at the University of Hanover. She worked in the laboratory of Bettina Winckler in the Mount Sinai Health System. In 2006, Norden earned her doctorate from ETH Zurich. She moved to the Institute of Physiology at the University of Cambridge.


== Research and career ==
Norden was made a group leader at the Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics (MPI-CBG) in 2010. She was elected to the European Molecular Biology Organization in 2020.
Norden's research considers the neural processes that underpin the formation of the vertebrate eye, retinal neurogenesis and lamination. Nodren makes use of zebrafish as a model organism. She uncovered the importance of the positions of cell nuclei in the correct formation of a retina.


== Selected publications ==
Martin Weigert; Uwe Schmidt; Tobias Boothe; et al. (26 November 2018). "Content-aware image restoration: pushing the limits of fluorescence microscopy". Nature Methods. 15 (12): 1090–1097. doi:10.1038/s41592-018-0216-7. ISSN 1548-7091. PMID 30478326. Wikidata Q93381609.
Caren Norden; Manuel Mendoza; Jeroen Dobbelaere; Chitra V Kotwaliwale; Sue Biggins; Yves Barral (7 April 2006). "The NoCut pathway links completion of cytokinesis to spindle midzone function to prevent chromosome breakage". Cell. 125 (1): 85–98. doi:10.1016/j.cell.2006.01.045. ISSN 0092-8674. PMID 16615892. Wikidata Q27929782.
Caren Norden; Stephen Young; Brian A Link; William A Harris (1 September 2009). "Actomyosin is the main driver of interkinetic nuclear migration in the retina". Cell. 138 (6): 1195–1208. doi:10.1016/j.cell.2009.06.032. ISSN 0092-8674. PMC 2791877. PMID 19766571. Wikidata Q37470638.


== References ==

Akegarasu Haya (暁烏 敏; 1877–1954) was a Shin Buddhist priest in Ōtani-ha. For a decade he was a student of the Shin reformer Kiyozawa Manshi. Akegarasu was also a former head of administration of the Higashi Hongan-ji who was a major inspiration to the formation of the Dobokai Movement.


== Early life ==
He was born into a Jodo Shinshu temple family in Ishikawa prefecture and was the family's only son. Due to his father Enen's death when he was 10, his mother Taki struggled through the hardships associated with poverty and single parenthood while raising him. He received traditionalist Jōdo Shinshū teachings until his fateful meeting, and by the age of fourteen, the talented writer had published several books of 31-syllable poetry.


== Revival movement ==
Rev. Kiyozawa Manshi, a great Japanese Shin reformer who taught Buddhism through life experience, met him on September 11, 1893, and became his teacher. Akegarasu was 16 and Kiyozawa was 31. For approximately the next ten years the two attempted to translate Buddhism into ordinary language and to manifest it into their simple everyday living. When Kiyozawa died on June 6, 1903, Akegarasu felt that he had been thoroughly crushed by his teacher's teachings. Akegarasu then led Kiyozawa's revival movement and wrote extensively for the next decade.
A series of severe crises struck Rev. Akegarasu during his mid-30s. His wife died, then his reputation as a minister and as the leader of Rev. Kiyozawa's revival movement came under attack by party-spirit factionalists. At that time, the Amitābha Buddha image that Rev. Akegarasu cherished was shattered, and no traditional forms of practice satisfied. But upon re-reading the Longer Sukhāvatīvyūha Sūtra he felt that he was finally beginning to realize the essential message of his teacher Rev. Kiyozawa, via the text of that Sutra. His experiential insight was that the story of Larger Sutra, where the hero, Dharmakara Bodhisattva, eventually becomes Amida Buddha, was expressing a timeless spirit emerging then and there within his own heart-mind. Amida's primal vow was his own authentic aspiration to become a Buddha and to save all sentient beings. From then on he taught that Amida Buddha represents that which practitioners should become.
In 1949, Akegarasu focused Shin practice in the direction of faith alone, declaring in a statement to his disciples: "First shinjin, second shinjin, third shinjin." This is basically the moment where Dobokai became official, although the movement did not receive official recognition until 1962. The early roots for the Dobokai Movement faith movement began in 1947 as the shinjinsha, or, 'true person community'.


== Death ==
Akegarasu died August 27, 1954.


== Writings ==
The earliest English translation of Akegarasu's writings can be found in Selections From The Nippon Seishin Library, which Akegarasu published in 1936 (translators Hata Taigan, Hanaoka Kimi, Imadate Tosui and others). In 1977 to commemorate the centennial of Akegarasu's birth, two ministers of the Buddhist Temple of Chicago who were his direct students published their translations: The Fundamental Spirit of Buddhism translated by Gyomay Kubose with Nancy DeRoin and Shout of Buddha: Writings of Haya Akegarasu translated by Gyoko Saito with Joan Sweany.
One of Akegarasu's main students was Shuichi Maida (1906-1967). Gyoko Saito and Gyomay Kubose were also among his prominent students.
Akegarasu's poem “Who am I?” concludes:
I alone
am the most noble:
I embrace the cosmos.
What an indescribable, subtle
existence I am! - I cannot in
speaking or writing
put down who I am!

I always touch this indescribable self,
always follow this indescribable self.
Truth is here.


== References ==


== External links ==
Writings of Haya Akegarasu

Tichit, or Tichitt (Berber languages: Ticit, Arabic: تيشيت), is a village at the foot of the Tagant Plateau in central southern Mauritania that is known for its vernacular architecture and proximity to the Dhar Tichitt archaeological sites.  The main agriculture in Tichit is date farming, and the village is also home to a small museum.
Tichitt Airport has two unpaved runways designated in a barren area 1 kilometre (0.62 mi) southeast of the village.


== History ==


=== Neolithic ===
This region includes a long sandstone cliff formation that defines the northern limit of the Hodh depression, near the former lake of Aoukar.
The Neolithic sites of Dhar Tichitt were settled around 2000 BC by agropastoral communities known as the Tichitt culture. Archaeologists including P.J. Munson, Augustin F.C. Holl, and S. Amblard have found some evidence that millet was farmed there from the date of the communities' foundation. The settlements were generally situated on the cliffs and included stone buildings. They are the oldest surviving archaeological settlements in West Africa and the oldest stone-built settlements south of the Sahara. They are thought to have been built by the proto-Soninke people and were possibly the precursor of the Ghana Empire. Hundreds of rock art images have been discovered, depicting various animals and hunting scenes. The area was abandoned around 500 BC probably because of the onset of more arid conditions.


=== Medieval ===
The area around Tichit was part of Maasina, the Fula term for the Dhar Tichitt-Walata-Néma region and origin of the name Massina for the Inner Niger Delta. Al-Bakri's 11th century chronicle records a war between 'Masin' and nearby Awgham. The oldest population strata in Tichit consists of an Afro-Berber group still called the Imasna.
The town of Tichitt was founded in the 12th century as a caravan stop on the Trans-Saharan trade route linking Oualâta to Chinguetti and eventually Sijilmasa. According to legend, seven towns have been built on top of each other at the site. 
The Azer dialect of Soninke was spoken in Tichit from the era of the Wagadou Empire until the early 20th century. The name 'Tichit' may be derived from a term meaning 'language of the blacks' in the Tuareg languages.


=== Modern ===
The town was self-sufficient and boasted several thousand inhabitants in the early 20th century, but desertification and sand encroachment have led to the abandonment of many structures. In 1996, it was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site. In 1999, torrential rains caused flooding that damaged 80% of the town. 


== Vernacular Architecture ==


== Climate ==
Tichit has a hot desert climate (BWh) according to the Köppen climate classification.


== See also ==
Ancient Ksour of Ouadane, Chinguetti, Tichitt and Oualata


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Holl, Augustin F.C. (2002), "Time, space, and image making: rock art from the Dhar Tichitt (Mauritania)" (PDF), African Archaeological Review, 19 (2): 75–118, doi:10.1023/A:1015479826570, hdl:2027.42/43991, JSTOR 25130740, S2CID 54741966.
Holl, Augustin F.C. (2009), "Coping with uncertainty: Neolithic life in the Dhar Tichitt-Walata, Mauritania, (ca. 4000–2300 BP)", Comptes Rendus Geoscience, 341 (8–9): 703–712, doi:10.1016/j.crte.2009.04.005.
Munson, Patrick J. (1980), "Archaeology and the prehistoric origins of the Ghana Empire", Journal of African History, 21 (4): 457–466, doi:10.1017/s0021853700018685, JSTOR 182004, S2CID 161981607.


== Further reading ==
Holl, Augustin (1985). "Subsistence patterns of the Neolithic, Mauritania". African Archaeological Review. 3: 151–162. doi:10.1007/bf01117458. JSTOR 25130453.
Holl, Augustin F.C. (1998). "Livestock husbandry, pastoralisms, and territoriality: the West African record". Journal of Anthropological Archaeology. 17 (2): 143–165. doi:10.1006/jaar.1998.0321.
MacDonald, Kevin; Vernet, Robert; Fuller, Dorian; Woodhouse, James (2003). "New light on the Tichitt tradition: A preliminary report on survey and excavation at Dhar Nema" (PDF). Oxford University School of Archaeology Monograph. 57: 73–80.


== External links ==
Map showing Tichit: Fond Typographique 1:200,000, République Islamique de Mauritanie Sheet NE-29-XV

Maryland Route 213 (MD 213) is a 68.25-mile (109.84 km) state highway located on the Eastern Shore of Maryland in the United States. The route runs from MD 662 in Wye Mills, Queen Anne's County, north to the Pennsylvania border near Fair Hill in Cecil County, where the road continues into that state as Pennsylvania Route 841 (PA 841). The route, which is a two-lane undivided highway most of its length, passes through mainly rural areas as well as the towns of Centreville, Chestertown, Galena, Cecilton, Chesapeake City, and Elkton. MD 213 intersects many routes including U.S. Route 50 (US 50) near Wye Mills, US 301 near Centreville, and US 40 in Elkton. It crosses over the Chesapeake & Delaware Canal in Chesapeake City on the Chesapeake City Bridge. MD 213 is designated by the state as the Chesapeake Country Scenic Byway between the southern terminus and Chesapeake City with the portion north of MD 18 in Centreville a National Scenic Byway. In addition, the route is also considered part of the Atlantic to Appalachians Scenic Byway between Chesapeake City and MD 273 in Fair Hill.
The route was initially designated as U.S. Route 213 (US 213) in 1926 when the U.S. Highway System was established, running from Ocean City west and north to US 40 in Elkton. The highway was rerouted to cross the Nanticoke River in Vienna by 1933, with the former route between Mardela Springs and Eldorado becoming a part of MD 313 and the alignment between Eldorado and Rhodesdale becoming part of MD 14. US 213 was rerouted to use the Emerson C. Harrington Bridge over the Choptank River in Cambridge in 1939; the former alignment between Vienna and Easton became MD 331. Meanwhile, the road between Elkton and the Pennsylvania border became Maryland Route 280 (MD 280). US 213 was moved to a bypass of Easton and straight alignment between Easton and Wye Mills in 1948. A year later, the southern terminus was cut back to US 50 in Wye Mills, with an extended US 50 replacing US 213 between Wye Mills and Ocean City. In 1971, US 213 and MD 280 were decommissioned and replaced with MD 213.


== Route description ==
MD 213 is a part of the National Highway System as a principal arterial between US 40 and MD 279 within the town of Elkton.


=== Queen Anne's County ===

MD 213 begins at an intersection with MD 662 (Wye Mills Road) in Wye Mills, Queen Anne's County, heading to the north on College Drive, a two-lane undivided road. From the southern terminus, MD 213 is designated by the state as the Chesapeake Country Scenic Byway. The road heads into farmland, passing Chesapeake College on the west side of the road before intersecting US 50 (Ocean Gateway). Past this intersection, MD 213 continues north on Centreville Road, passing more farms as well as some residences. The route continues into a mix of woods and farmland before intersecting the northern terminus of MD 309 (Starr Road). A short distance later, the route reaches a partial cloverleaf interchange with US 301 (Blue Star Memorial Highway).
Past the US 301 interchange, MD 213 continues through more rural areas before entering the town of Centreville, where it passes some residential and commercial areas. It intersects the eastern terminus of MD 18 (4H Park Road). At this intersection, MD 213 becomes a part of the National Scenic Byway portion of the Chesapeake Country Scenic Byway. Past MD 18, the route continues into residential areas, eventually splitting into a one-way pair carrying one lane in each direction with northbound MD 213 following Commerce Street and southbound MD 213 following Liberty Street. This pairing continues past residences before heading into the downtown area, where the road intersects MD 304 (Water Street). Westbound MD 304 joins northbound MD 213 for a concurrency that lasts until the Broadway intersection north of the Queen Anne's County Courthouse, where MD 304 continues to the west; MD 304 is unsigned along the concurrency with MD 213.

MD 213 leaves downtown Centreville past MD 304. The one-way pair ends and the route continues north on two-lane undivided Liberty Street, passing by residences and some businesses. At the end of the one-way pair, the route sees an average of 12,912 vehicles daily. It intersects the western terminus of MD 305 (Hope Road), and passes by more residences before becoming Church Hill Road, which heads north into a mix of woods and farms with some housing developments.  It angles to the northeast and then north through more rural areas, consisting mostly of farm fields with some wooded areas and occasional residences. MD 213 continues in a northeast direction before reaching the town of Church Hill.
Upon reaching Church Hill, the route intersects unsigned MD 19A (South Main Street), which loops to the east of MD 213 to head into the town. Meanwhile, MD 213 bypasses Church Hill to the west, running through woodland, and intersects the western terminus of MD 300 (Sudlersville Road). The route heads back into farmland and has a junction with the western terminus of MD 19 (North Main Street), leaving the Church Hill area. MD 213 continues north through a mix of woods and farms. From here, the route turns northwest through more farmland before it passes some residences and businesses near the intersection with the western terminus of MD 544 (McGinnes Road). Past the MD 544 intersection, the road continues through rural areas, but residences and businesses start to increase. MD 213 passes through Kingstown before crossing the Chester River on a drawbridge.


=== Kent County ===
Upon crossing the Chester River, MD 213 enters the town of Chestertown in Kent County, where the route heads northwest on Maple Avenue through residential areas. It intersects the northern terminus of MD 289 (Cross Street) in the downtown area and turns north onto Washington Avenue at the junction with Spring Avenue. Washington Avenue carries MD 213 north through residential neighborhoods and passes to the west of the University of Maryland Shore Medical Center at Chestertown and by Washington College. Past the college, the route gains a center left-turn lane and continues past business, intersecting MD 291 (Morgnec Road). Past this intersection, MD 213 continues through residential and commercial areas before it narrows back to a two-lane road.
The road leaves Chestertown and becomes Augustine Herman Highway, which is named for Bohemian surveyor Augustine Herman. The road heads into farmland with residences along the west side of the road. MD 213 intersects the southern terminus of MD 297 (Worton Road) and heads past more farm fields. The road turns northeast and has a junction with the southern terminus of MD 561 (Hassengers Corner Road). It continues through more rural areas, consisting mostly of farms with some wooded areas before reaching Kennedyville, where MD 213 passes residences. In Kennedyville, the road crosses the Chestertown Branch of the Northern Line of the Maryland and Delaware Railroad at-grade.
Upon leaving Kennedyville, MD 213 continues back into agricultural areas. The route makes a turn to the east, with an old bypassed segment remaining as unsigned MD 855. MD 213 intersects MD 298 (Browntown Road) and resumes northeast and east again. It intersects unsigned MD 449 (Shallcross Wharf Road), a road that connects to MD 444 (Kentmore Park Road), which MD 213 intersects a short distance later. From here, the route continues east and northeast through more farmland before heading into a mix of farms and woods. The route enters the town of Galena, where it becomes Cross Street. In the center of town, MD 213 meets MD 290 and MD 313 at the intersection with Main Street. Here, MD 290 and MD 313 continue south on Main Street, MD 290 continues east on Cross Street, and MD 213 makes a left turn to head north on Main Street. Main Street passes residences before leaving Galena, where the road becomes Augustine Herman Highway again. The road continues through a mix of farms and woods before reaching the community of Georgetown, where the route passes some homes before crossing the Sassafras River on a drawbridge near a marina.


=== Cecil County ===
MD 213 enters Cecil County upon crossing the Sassafras River, where it continues north through wooded and agricultural areas with some residences. The route enters the town of Cecilton, where it becomes Bohemia Avenue. In Cecilton, MD 213 passes residences along with a few businesses and intersects MD 282 (Main Street) in the center of town. Upon leaving Cecilton, the name of the road becomes Augustine Herman Highway again. The Cecilton area is home to a small Amish settlement. MD 213 passes through farmland, with intermittent woods and rural residences, before crossing over the Bohemia River. Past the Bohemia River, the road turns northeast through more rural areas before intersecting the western terminus of MD 310 (Cayots Corner Road) in Cayots. Past MD 310, the route continues through farms and woods with some residences and businesses before heading into the Chesapeake City area, where residences increase along the road and it passes to the east of Bohemia Manor High School. Upon reaching the town of Chesapeake City, MD 213 features an interchange with MD 537, which provides access to the southern portion of Chesapeake City as well as to MD 286 and MD 342.
In Chesapeake City, the Chesapeake Country Scenic Byway ends and MD 213 continues north as a part of the Atlantic to Appalachians Scenic Byway which crosses the state of Maryland. Past this interchange, MD 213 passes over the Chesapeake & Delaware Canal on the Chesapeake City Bridge, a tied-arch bridge. After crossing the canal, the road intersects the western terminus of MD 285 (Lock Street), which provides access to the northern portion of Chesapeake City. Past MD 285, the route resumes through a mix of woodland and farmland, crossing Long Creek and Perch Creek, with residential areas increasing along the road. It approaches the Elkton area and heads through residential areas.

MD 213 enters the town of Elkton at the intersection with US 40 (Pulaski Highway). Past this intersection, the route heads northwest on Bridge Street, passing through commercial areas as a three-lane road with a center left-turn lane. The route narrows to two lanes before it crosses Big Elk Creek and intersects Main Street, which continues east of MD 213 as a one-way street eastbound. Past Main Street, the road heads north and passes over Amtrak's Northeast Corridor railroad line before intersecting the southern terminus of MD 545 (Elkton Boulevard). MD 213 continues past commercial areas to the west and residential areas to the east as a three-lane road with a center left-turn lane before its junction with MD 279 (Newark Avenue). Past the MD 279 junction, the route narrows back to two lanes before it leaves Elkton and becomes Singerly Road, which continues past residences. MD 213 enters a mix of woods and farms and passes over Interstate 95 (John F. Kennedy Memorial Highway) without an interchange and CSX's Philadelphia Subdivision railroad line within a short distance of each other. It continues through a mix of farms and residences before the road reaches the Leeds roundabout with Leeds Road/Elk Mills Road west of the community of Cherry Hill. Past the roundabout, the route resumes north, intersecting MD 273 (Telegraph Road) in the community of Fair Hill west of the Fair Hill Training Center and the Fair Hill Natural Resources Management Area, where the Atlantic to Appalachians Scenic Byway leaves MD 213 and heads west along MD 273. From here, the name of MD 213 changes to Lewisville Road and it curves northwest and north through a mix of rural areas and residences before ending at the Pennsylvania border. Here, the road continues north into that state as PA 841 (Chesterville Road) and reaches the community of Lewisville, intersecting the southern terminus of PA 472 (Lewisville Road) just north of the state line.


== History ==

In 1911, what would become US 213 was completed as a state highway between Hebron and Riverton via Mardela Springs, Easton and Longwoods, Centerville and Church Hill, and in the Chestertown area, while the present road between Elkton and Singerly was also built as a state highway. The portion of roads between Riverton and Sharptown, Brookview and Hurlock, Church Hill and southeast of Chestertown, northeast of Chestertown and northeast of Kennedyville, and Chesapeake City and Elkton were under contract to be built as state roads. At this time, a state highway was proposed along the segments between Ocean City and Berlin, Salisbury and Hebron, Sharptown and Brookview, Hurlock and Easton, Longwoods and Centreville, northeast of Kennedyville and Chesapeake City, and Elkton and Fair Hill. By 1915, the entire length of road between Ocean City and Elkton was completed as a state highway. The state highway between Singerly and south of Fair Hill was finished by 1923. The state highway was finished to Fair Hill by 1927.
With the creation of the U.S. Highway System on November 11, 1926, US 213 was designated to run from the Atlantic Ocean in Ocean City west and north to US 40 in Elkton. The route headed west from Ocean City through Berlin and Salisbury (where it intersected its parent route US 13), before it ran northwest to Mardela Springs. Here, US 213 turned to the north and ran to Eldorado, where it continued northwest through Hurlock and Preston to Easton. From Easton, the route continued north to Wye Mills and followed the present alignment of MD 213 to Elkton. A new Dover Bridge over the Choptank River east of Easton, replacing a bridge built in the 19th century, was completed in 1932. By 1933, US 213 was rerouted to cross the Nanticoke River at Vienna instead of at Sharptown. The route headed west from Mardela Springs to Vienna, where it turned north to Rhodesdale. The former alignment of US 213 became a southern extension of MD 313 between Mardela Springs and Eldorado and an eastern extension of MD 14 between Rhodesdale and Eldorado.

In 1939, US 213 was realigned to cross the Choptank River at Cambridge on the Emerson C. Harrington Bridge that opened in 1935. The route replaced MD 344 between Vienna and Mount Holly, ran concurrent with MD 16 between Mount Holly and Cambridge, and turned north across the river to continue to Easton. The former routing of US 213 between Vienna and Easton became MD 331. In 1939, the road between US 40 and the northern terminus of US 213 in Elkton and the Pennsylvania border north of Fair Hill was designated MD 280. The portion of MD 280 between Fair Hill and the Pennsylvania border was built as a state highway by 1933. On July 28, 1942, the vertical lift bridge carrying US 213 over the Chesapeake & Delaware Canal, built in 1927, was destroyed when the tanker Franz Klasen struck it. The destroyed bridge was replaced by the current Chesapeake City Bridge, which opened in 1949. The approaches to the original bridge are now designated as MD 537 and a western extension of MD 285.

US 213 was relocated to a new divided highway alignment to the north between Herring Creek in West Ocean City and Ocean City in 1942, including a new bridge across Sinepuxent Bay into Ocean City (the current Harry W. Kelley Memorial Bridge). The bypassed portion of US 213 remained a state highway and was designated MD 707 by 1948. A portion of US 213 south of Easton was moved to a straight alignment by 1946; the former routing became MD 565. By 1946, work was underway for a bypass to the east of Easton along with a straight alignment between Easton and Wye Mills. US 213 was moved to this new alignment in 1948, with the former alignment on Washington Street in Easton becoming an extended MD 333 in the southern part of the city and an extended MD 33 in the northern part the city, while MD 662 was designated on the original alignment between Easton and Wye Mills.
In 1949, US 50 was extended from Annapolis across the Chesapeake Bay, first via a ferry run by the Maryland State Roads Commission, then over the original span of the Chesapeake Bay Bridge when it was completed in the middle of 1952, all the way to Ocean City. The southern terminus of US 213 was cut back to US 50 in Wye Mills, with the former route of US 213 between Wye Mills and Ocean City becoming part of the newly extended US 50. The former routing of US 213 between Wye Mills and Ocean City is now US 50 between Wye Mills and Vienna, Old Route 50 through Vienna, US 50 between Vienna and Salisbury, US 50 Bus. through Salisbury, MD 346 between Salisbury and east of Berlin, and US 50 between east of Berlin and Ocean City. In 1951, US 213 was realigned at Cayots to eliminate a sharp turn at the MD 310 intersection. The bypassed alignment became a western extension of MD 310 and MD 310A (now a county road named Cayots Corner Road Spur). On December 3, 1971, the American Association of State Highway Officials approved the elimination of the US 213 designation. US 213 along with MD 280 were replaced by MD 213, which ran from MD 662 in Wye Mills north to PA 841 at the Pennsylvania border north of Fair Hill. In 1994, the at-grade intersection with US 301 was replaced with an interchange.


== Junction list ==


== Auxiliary route ==
MD 213A runs along the ramp from MD 537D to southbound MD 213 in Chesapeake City, Cecil County. The route is 0.05 mi (80 m) long.


== See also ==
 Maryland Roads portal


== References ==


== External links ==

MD 213 at MDRoads.com
US 213 at MDRoads.com
MD 213 at AARoads.com
Maryland Roads - MD 213
Endpoints of historic U.S. Highway 213 at USEnds.com

The 2010 congressional elections in Indiana were held on November 2, 2010, to determine who would represent the state of Indiana in the United States House of Representatives. Representatives are elected for two-year terms; those elected served in the 112th Congress from January 2011 until January 2013, except for the winner of the 3rd District's special election, who will serve the few remaining weeks of the 111th Congress.
Indiana has nine seats in the House, apportioned according to the 2000 United States census.


== Overview ==


=== By district ===
Results of the 2010 United States House of Representatives elections in Indiana by district:


== District 1 ==

Democrat Pete Visclosky has represented this district since 1985. The PVI is D+8. He faced Republican activist Mark Leyva and Libertarian candidate Jon Morris. Visclosky was endorsed by the Northwest Indiana Times and the Indianapolis Star.


=== Predictions ===


=== Results ===


==== By county ====
Source


== District 2 ==

Democrat Joe Donnelly had represented this district since 2007 and ran for reelection. He was challenged by Republican nominee State Representative Jackie Walorski, whom he defeated.
Obama carried this district with 54% of the vote in 2008.

IN - District 2 from OurCampaigns.com
Campaign Contributions from OpenSecrets
2010 Indiana - 2nd District from CQ Politics
Race profile at The New York Times


=== Polling ===


=== Predictions ===


=== Results ===


==== By county ====
Sources


== District 3 ==

Republican Mark Souder represented this district from 2003 until his resignation on May 18, 2010. Fellow Republican John McCain carried this district with 56% of the vote in the 2008 presidential election.
In the Republican primary, car dealer Bob Thomas gave Souder a strong challenge in the primary. An April SurveyUSA poll showed Thomas within six percentage points of Souder. Other Republican candidates included attorney Phil Troyer and Tea Party activist Greg Dickman. Souder won the primary with 48% of the vote. He was to face Democrat Fort Wayne councilman Tom Hayhurst.
However, as Souder announced his resignation both from Congress and from his Republican candidacy on May 18, 2010, Governor Mitch Daniels set a date for a special election to be held concurrently with the general election in November. A caucus was to be held to choose the Republican candidate for the special election and the general election. The Republican caucus to choose the nominee was held on June 12, 2010. State Senator Marlin Stutzman was selected as the Republican nominee for both the special and general elections.


=== Republican primary polling ===


=== Predictions ===


=== Results ===


==== By county ====
Source


=== District 3 special election ===

The 2010 special election for Indiana's 3rd congressional district was held November 2, contemporaneously with the regularly scheduled general election. The special election was called to fill the vacancy left by Republican Mark Souder, who resigned after an affair with a staffer was revealed.


==== Democratic candidates ====
Tom Hayhurst, former Fort Wayne City Councilor; 2006 and 2010 Democratic nominee.


==== Republican candidates ====
Nominee

Marlin Stutzman, State Senator and former U.S. Senate candidate


== District 4 ==

Republican Steve Buyer did not run for re-election. McCain carried the district with 56% of the vote. Todd Rokita, the Republican Secretary of State of Indiana, Republican State Senator Brandt Hershman, Cheryl Denise Allen and Mark Seitz filed to run for Buyer's vacant seat. Rokita won the primary and defeated Democrat David Sanders in the general election.


=== Predictions ===


=== Results ===


==== By county ====
Source


== District 5 ==

Republican Dan Burton has represented this district since 2003. John McCain carried 59% of the vote in 2008.
Former Republican candidate Brose McVey, Indiana Republican Party Executive Director Luke Messer, State Representative Mike Murphy, and 2008 primary challenger John McGoff all formally announced their intention to run. Burton won the primary with just 30% of the vote. He faced Democrat Tim Crawford in the general election.


=== Republican primary polling ===


=== Predictions ===


=== Results ===


==== By county ====
Source


== District 6 ==

Republican Mike Pence represented this district since 2003. In the 2008 presidential election, Republican nominee McCain carried the district with 52% of the vote. Pence faced Democratic nominee Barry Welsh, a minister, and defeated him to keep his seat.


=== Predictions ===


=== Results ===


==== By county ====
Source


== District 7 ==

Democrat André Carson has served since 2008. President Obama carried this district with 71% of the vote, considered safe or solid by most sources. He again faced perennial Republican candidate Marvin Scott, who took issue with Carson's Muslim faith during the general election. However, Carson defeated Scott by a large margin to retain his seat.


=== Predictions ===


=== Results ===


==== By county ====
Source


== District 8 ==

This was an open seat as Democratic incumbent Brad Ellsworth ran (unsuccessfully) for the U.S. Senate. The Democratic nominee was lawyer and State Representative Trent Van Haaften. The Republican nominee was Larry Bucshon, president of Ohio Valley HeartCare.

IN - District 8 from OurCampaigns.com
Campaign Contributions from OpenSecrets
2010 Indiana - 8th District from CQ Politics
Race profile at The New York Times
Bucshon received support from the National Republican Congressional Committee and was named a GOP Young Gun.  During the campaign, Bucshon was endorsed by several conservative interest groups and elected officials, including the Indiana Chamber of Commerce Congressional Action Committee, United States Chamber of Commerce, National Right to Life Committee, Indiana Right to Life, Indiana Manufacturers Association, Campaign for Working Families, House Minority Leader John Boehner, U.S. Congressman Mike Pence, and Indiana Governor Mitch Daniels.
Bucshon received significant campaign contributions from medical groups Bucshon defeated van Haaften by a margin of 21 points, winning all 18 counties in the district.


=== Polling ===


=== Predictions ===


=== Results ===


==== By county ====
Source


== District 9 ==

Democratic incumbent Baron Hill was challenged by Republican Todd Young (campaign site, PVS Archived September 29, 2010, at the Wayback Machine, WhoRunsGov), Libertarian Greg Knott (campaign site Archived 2013-07-21 at the Wayback Machine, PVS Archived September 29, 2010, at the Wayback Machine), and Independent Jerry Lucas (campaign site, PVS Archived September 29, 2010, at the Wayback Machine). He was defeated, and was defeated by Todd Young.

IN - District 9 from OurCampaigns.com
Campaign Contributions from OpenSecrets
2010 Indiana - 9th District from CQ Politics
Race profile, nytimes.com; accessed November 9, 2016.


=== Primaries ===
Five-term Congressman Democrat Baron Hill has won in the ninth district since 1998, except for in 2004, when he lost to Republican Mike Sodrel by 1,425 votes. Hill narrowly regained his seat from Sodrel in 2006 and won another race with Sodrel in 2008 by a wider margin. McCain carried the district with only 50% of the vote. In 2010, Sodrel sought another rematch, but lost to former Marine Captain and Orange County Deputy Prosecutor Todd Young in the Republican primary. Independent Jerry Lucas, a nurse and army veteran, has also filed to run. Greg Knott entered the race as the Libertarian Party candidate.
Prior to the campaign season, Hill came under increasing public pressure following the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. At public meetings, Hill had to be escorted by state police for his protection and had heated verbal exchanges with the public which made local news on several occasions and leading Hill to refuse to hold additional public meetings in person.


=== General ===
Hill launched a series of campaign ads beginning in mid August questioning Young's intentions for the future of Social Security and highlighting a comment made by Young referring to it as a "Ponzi scheme". Local media covering the debate questioned both candidates about their ads; Hill defended his support of healthcare, stimulus, and new regulatory legislation as the correct votes for the future of the country.
Young reconfirmed his position, stating Social Security was indeed a "Ponzi scheme" and needed reform to remain financially viable and called on Hill to explain his financial plans for the nation.
The last week of August, the Young campaign began running ads on radio and television pointing out Hill's record of supporting spending legislation and calling on fiscal restraint in Congress. On the night of August 30, Young's Bloomington campaign headquarters were vandalized; the air conditioner was stolen, the phone and internet lines into the building were cut, the power disconnected. The Young campaign requested that Hill participate in seven town hall style debates. The first scheduled debate will be held October 18 at the Buskirk-Chumley Theater in Bloomington.
In a post-primary June Public Opinion Strategies poll, Hill had a 41–33 lead over Young. An August poll conducted by the Young campaign suggested only 37% of voters believed Hill deserved another term. During the first week of September Real Clear Politics had the race rated as a toss-up.


==== Polling ====


=== Predictions ===


=== Results ===


==== By county ====
Source


== References ==


== External links ==
Election Division at the Indiana Secretary of State
U.S. Congress Candidates for Indiana Archived September 30, 2010, at the Wayback Machine at Project Vote Smart
Indiana U.S. House from OurCampaigns.com
Campaign contributions for U.S. Congressional races in Indiana from OpenSecrets
2010 Indiana General Election graph of multiple polls from Pollster.com
House - Indiana from the Cook Political Report
Imagine Election look up congressional districts and candidates by zip code or address

The 2019 LIU Sharks football team represented both the LIU Post and LIU Brooklyn campuses of Long Island University in the 2019 NCAA Division I FCS football season. They were led by 22nd- year head coach Bryan Collins and played their home games at Bethpage Federal Credit Union Stadium. They played as a first-year member of the Northeast Conference. This was the first season that the LIU Sharks were competing as a team following the merger of the two LIU campuses' athletic departments in the summer of 2019.
The Sharks finished winless in their first season. A month after the season ended, starting quarterback Clay Beathard was stabbed to death in Nashville, Tennessee.


== Schedule ==


== Preseason ==


=== Preseason coaches' poll ===
The NEC released their preseason coaches' poll on July 24, 2019. The Sharks were picked to finish in 8th (last) place.


=== Preseason All–Northeast Conference team ===
The LIU Sharks were the only conference team to have no players selected for the 2019 All–Northeast Conference Football Preseason Team.


== Game summaries ==


=== At South Dakota State ===


=== Sacred Heart ===


=== At Wagner ===


=== At Duquesne ===


=== At Bryant ===


=== Saint Francis (PA) ===


=== At Central Connecticut ===


=== At Robert Morris ===


=== At Villanova ===


=== Merrimack ===


== References ==

The Palais Universitaire in Strasbourg is a large, neo-Renaissance style building, constructed between 1879 and 1884 under the direction of the German architect Otto Warth. It was inaugurated in 1884 by Wilhelm I, Emperor of Germany. Through Avenue de la Liberté (former Kaiser-Wilhelm-Straße), it faces the equally monumental former imperial palace (Kaiserpalast).
The building served for several decades as the centre of the new imperial University of Strasbourg. The old university transferred from the buildings that it had occupied for centuries at the Jean Sturm Gymnasium to the new ones located in the Neustadt.


== Italianate features ==
The architect, Otto Warth (1845–1918), from Karlsruhe, was young when he was entrusted with the design of the building. He had just returned from a one-year study visit to Italy, and his passion for Italian classical architecture is reflected in some of the Italianate features of the Palais.


== The Aula ==
One of the most distinctive features of the building is the Aula, which measures 25 m by 29 m and 16 m high, which Warth modeled on the Villa Garzoni in Pontecasale, Candiana.
 It is decorated with a monumental seated statue of Ramses II, 2.15 m (7 ft 1 in) high, brought in 1933 by Pierre Montet.
In 2012, the Aula was dedicated to Marc Bloch, former professor at the university, shot by the Nazis in 1944.


== Statuary ==
The Palais is striking for the statuary of its façades, which pay hommage to a number of scientists, theologians, theoricians and thinkers with Germanic connections, thirty-six in all, as follows:
1. von Baer,  Karl Ernst Ritter von Baer Edler von Huthorn (1792 – 1876), scientist and explorer
2. Bopp,  Franz Bopp (1791 – 1867), linguist
3. Böckh,  August Böckh or Boeckh (1785 – 1867), classical scholar and antiquarian
4. von Buch,  Christian Leopold von Buch (1774 – 1853), geologist and paleontologist
5. Calvin, John or Jean Calvin (1509 – 1564), theologian, pastor and reformer in Geneva 
6. Copernicus, Nicolaus Copernicus (1473 – 1543), polymath, mathematician, astronomer
7. Eichhorn,  Karl Friedrich Eichhorn (1781 – 1854), jurist
8. von Fraunhofer, Joseph Ritter von Fraunhofer (1787 – 1826), physicist and optical lens manufacturer.
9. Gauss, Johann Carl Friedrich Gauss (1777 – 1855), mathematician and physicist 
10. Jac. Grimm, Jacob Ludwig Karl Grimm (1785 – 1863), linguist, philologist, jurist, and folklorist
11. von Guericke, Otto von Guericke (1602 – 1686), scientist, inventor, and politician
12. von Haller, Albrecht von Haller (also known as Albertus de Haller; 1708 – 1777), anatomist, physiologist, naturalist, encyclopedist, bibliographer and poet
13. von Humboldt,  Friedrich Wilhelm Heinrich Alexander von Humboldt (1769 – 1859), geographer, naturalist, explorer, and proponent of Romantic philosophy and science
14. Jacobi,  Carl Gustav Jacob Jacobi (1804 – 1851), mathematician
15. Kant, Immanuel Kant (1724 – 1804), philosopher 
16. Kepler, Johannes Kepler (1571 – 1630), astronomer, mathematician, astrologer, natural philosopher and writer on music
17. Leibniz, Gottfried Wilhelm (von) Leibniz  (1646 – 1716), polymath, mathematician, philosopher, scientist, and diplomat
18. von Liebig, Justus Freiherr von Liebig (1803 – 1873), one of the founders of organic chemistry
19. Lessing, Gotthold Ephraim Lessing (1729 – 1781), philosopher, dramatist, publicist and art critic
20. Luther, Martin Luther (1483 – 1546), priest, theologian and hymnwriter.
21. Melanchthon, Philip Melanchthon (1497 – 1560), Lutheran reformer
22. Müller, Johannes Peter Müller (1801 – 1858), physiologist, comparative anatomist, ichthyologist, and herpetologist, 
23. Niebuhr, Barthold Georg Niebuhr (1776  – 1831), statesman, banker, and historian 
24. Paracelsus, Philippus Aureolus Theophrastus Bombastus von Hohenheim (1493 – 1541), physician, alchemist, lay theologian and philosopher
25. v. Pufendorf,  Samuel Freiherr von Pufendorf (1632 – 1694), jurist, political philosopher, economist and historian
26. Savigny,  Friedrich Carl von Savigny (1779 – 1861), jurist and historian
27. Schleiermacher, Friedrich Daniel Ernst Schleiermacher (1768 – 1834), Reformed theologian, philosopher, and biblical scholar 
28. v. Schwarzenberg, Johann of Schwarzenberg (1463 – 1528), moralist and reformer 
29. Schöpflin, Johann Daniel Schöpflin (1694 – 1771), professor of history, rhetoric and law at the University of Strasbourg
30. Sleidanus, Johannes Sleidanus or Sleidan (1506-1556), historian of the Reformation
31. Spener, Philipp Spener (1635-1705), Lutheran theologian, founder of Pietism
32. Joh. Sturm, Johannes or Jean Sturm (1507 – 1589), educator and Protestant reformer
33. Werner, Abraham Gottlob Werner (1749 – 1817), geologist
34. Winckelmann, Johann Joachim Winckelmann (1717 – 1768), art historian and archaeologist
35. F.A Wolf, Friedrich August Wolf (1759 – 1824), classicist, founder of modern philology
36. Zwingli, Huldrych or Ulrich Zwingli (1484 – 1531), leader of the Reformation in Switzerland

Two allegorical statues representing Germania (Germany) and Argentina (Strasbourg), the former removed in 1918 and the latter destroyed in 1945, were replaced in their respective niche on the façade in 2014, after having been restored and/or replicated based on photos.


== Monument historique ==
On 21 May 1990, the hall, the Aula and the main stairways were classified as a monument historique.


== Council of Europe ==
The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe held its first session in this building, from 8 August to 10 September 1949.


== University Press ==
The Presses Universitaires de Strasbourg, reputedly the oldest university press in France, has had its headquarters in the building ever since it was founded in 1920.


== Gypsothèque ==
The Palace's basement houses the Gypsothèque de Strasbourg, also known as Musée des moulages (plaster cast museum). This classical cast collection was initiated with the founding of the Kaiser-Wilhelms-Universität in 1872 by Adolf Michaelis, a distinguished classical scholar and art history pioneer. Next to casts of works like Harmodius and Aristogeiton, Apollo Belvedere, Aphrodite of Cnidus and the metopes of the Parthenon, the museum also displays casts of works by Antoine Bourdelle. The collection is the second largest cast collection in France and the largest university cast collection of France. The collections were moved into the Palace's basement in 1939, with the outbreak of World War II, and have stayed there since, although plans have periodically been made to move them into a separate building.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Palais universitaire de Strasbourg at Wikimedia Commons
Palais Universitaire Archived 2013-12-03 at the Wayback Machine on archi-strasbourg.org (in French)
Strasbourg University Press

PECI is a private, non-profit American company based in Portland, Oregon with additional offices in Santa Ana, California and San Francisco, California. PECI designs and manages energy efficiency programs for utility providers, government organizations, and other clients. Some of the organizations PECI has worked with include the U.S. Department of Energy, Avista, Wal-mart, Southern California Edison, the Community Energy Project, Energy Trust of Oregon, Pacific Gas & Electric and the San Diego Natural History Museum.
As energy consumption rises, governments and utility companies are looking for ways to meet demand without creating energy-generating infrastructure. Meanwhile, many businesses are looking to reduce overhead costs by lowering their energy consumption. PECI designs tactics that encourage commercial businesses and residential consumers to adopt energy-efficient technology and behaviors, and manages the programmatic framework to implement these tactics on an appropriate scale.
On September 16, 2014, PECI announced that its current assets and contracts had been acquired by CLEAResult Consulting, a for-profit company that designs, markets and implements energy programs for utilities, businesses and residential energy customers. Ownership of the PECI name and brand remains with the PECI board of directors.


== History ==
Originally called Portland Energy Conservation, Inc., PECI was created by the city of Portland in 1979 as a public agency tasked with carrying out private sector aspects of the Portland Energy Conservation Policy. In 1984, PECI was spun off from city government into a private, non-profit company with 12 employees.
In 1990, PECI managed the Energy Edge program for the Administration. The intent of Energy Edge was to learn how energy-efficient lighting, refrigeration, and HVAC measures performed in commercial buildings. In addition to being PECI's first commercial energy efficiency program, Energy Edge was a landmark event in the creation of building commissioning processes. PECI's first energy efficiency program for residential consumers was the ENERGY STAR CFL program, which was launched in 1995 and operated throughout the Pacific Northwest.
By 2002, PECI was focusing on program designs that could be more easily replicated for different markets. A program called EnergySmart Grocer provides no-cost energy audits to supermarkets, convenience stores, and restaurants. Based on the results of the audit, the business can elect to install energy efficient refrigeration, lighting, HVAC, and food service equipment. The cost of the installation is offset by financial incentives from the utility company, allowing businesses to see the benefits of energy- and cost-saving technology while minimizing the cost of the upfront investment. Since 2006, EnergySmart Grocer programs have saved 227 million kWh of electricity in the Pacific Northwest.
Another replicable PECI program, AirCare Plus, was also created in 2002. The program trains HVAC contractors to offer no-cost diagnostic tune-ups to utility customers’ HVAC systems. Increasing the efficiency of HVAC equipment saves energy from what is typically a home or commercial building's largest energy consumer. It also increases equipment life and reduces the building's environmental impact. AirCare Plus programs have been launched across the Pacific Northwest and California, saving more than 91 million kWh of electricity.
PECI opened two California offices in 2010, in Santa Ana and San Francisco. The same year, PECI won an $18.8 million contract from the California Energy Commission, funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 to run a program called EnergySmart Jobs. The program was similar to EnergySmart Grocer, except that energy audits were performed by PECI-trained members of the California Conservation Corp, a work development program for men and women between the ages of 18 and 25. EnergySmart Jobs operated in California from 2010 to 2012 and saved more than 62 million kWh of electricity and created 265 job years, the U.S. government's official metric to measure jobs created by ARRA funds.
In 2011, PECI moved its headquarters to a LEED Platinum Platinum building in downtown Portland. PECI added many energy-efficient features to the core building, including insulated low-e glass windows, a high-efficiency HVAC system, daylight dimming mechanisms and energy-efficient data center systems.


== Corporate social responsibility ==
According to PECI's 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report, PECI's Portland office consumed 527,489 kWh of electricity and created 10.3 tons of waste in 2013, equal to about 91 pounds per employee and 0.36 pounds per employee per day. According to the EPA, in 2010, the average American generated 4.43 pounds of waste per day. 39 percent of PECI's total waste was recycled (2010 U.S. recycling rate: 34.1%) and 36 percent was composted. PECI employees traveled 2.4 million miles for commuting and business travel in 2013. About 55 percent of commuting miles were travelled via bicycle and public transit, with the remainder traveled by carpool or single-occupancy vehicle.
PECI participated in volunteer, charitable, and educational activities with the Community Energy Project, Clark Center for Men, Friends of Trees, and the Northwest Earth Institute in 2013.


== Energy Savings ==
The effectiveness of energy efficiency programs is typically measured by energy savings, in the form of electricity, gas, and water consumption that was avoided as a result of program efforts. In 2012, PECI programs saved 328 million kWh of electricity, 3.6 million Therms of gas and 3.36 million gallons of water.
According to an energy savings equivalency calculator from the Environmental Protection Agency, these energy savings equal:

The annual greenhouse gas emissions produced by 51,963 cars
The monthly CO2 emissions of 2.79 million households
The CO2 emissions from consuming 1,073 railroad cars of coal
The CO2 emissions from consuming 21,891 tanker trucks of gasoline


== Awards ==
2013 Governor's Sustainability Award from Oregon Sustainability Board
2013 Best Green Companies to Work for in Oregon (35th)
2013 Sustainability at Work Gold Certification
2012 Portland Afoot Top 25 Best Employers for Low-Car Commuters
2012 Best Green Companies to Work for in Oregon (26th)
2012 Energy Star Partner of the Year – Utah Home Performance Program
2012 Energy Star Sustained Excellence - Questar Thermwise Builder Program
2011 Best Non-Profits to Work For in Oregon
2011 100 Best Green Companies to Work for in Oregon (22nd)
2011 City of Portland Climate Champion
2010 AESP Program Design and Implementation Award – Energy Trust of Oregon New Homes Program
2010 100 Best Green Companies to Work for in Oregon (15th)
2010 Energy Star Partner of the Year – Questar Gas
2010 Energy Star Sustained Excellence – Rocky Mountain Power
2010 Pacific Gas & Electric Integration Awards – AirCare Plus
2010 San Diego Gas & Electric Energy Champion
2009 Energy Star Partner of the Year – Rocky Mountain Power
2009 Energy Star Partner of the Year – Questar Gas
2009 100 Best Green Companies to Work for in Oregon (37th)


== References ==

Caldermeade railway station was located on the South Gippsland line in Caldermeade, South Gippsland, Victoria. The station opened on 11 November 1890, when the line from Tooradin was extended to Loch, and was closed to all traffic on 6 October 1958. The station has since been demolished, with no remains intact. However, the track still remains in a reasonable condition.


== References ==

Bhardaha   is a local town of Hanumannagar Kankalini Municipality in Saptari District of Madhesh Province in Nepal. At the time of the 2022 Nepal census it had a population of 14,564 people living in 7,239 individual households.


== Tourism ==
Kankalini Temple - It is one of the famous  Shakta pithas of Nepal. Millions of pilgrims come to worship and visit this temple yearly from Nepal and  India.
Koshi River and Koshi Barrage - Koshi is the largest river of Nepal and the barrage made over this river have 56 gates and this barrage is so much attractive. So many people come to visit and celebrate picnic and holidays on bank of this river.
Banana Orchard - The banana of Bhardaha has become  so famous in  Nepal in few years of beginning of banana farming also in India near border side. The green view of banana orchard is so attractive.
Koshi Tappu Wildlife Reserve.                    * Shiv mandir -    It is one of the famous  shivalay khoshi koloni bhardah .  Shree shree 108shree bhadreshwarnatha shiv mandir ..


== Economy ==
The economy of Bhardians are basically depends  on farming. Many people  (above 60%) are involved in banana farming. Remaining population are involved in other types of farming and local business. The lifestyle of people of Bhardians are medium. Village is full of middle-class families.


== Notable people ==
C. K. Raut – social activist, author and computer scientist
Udit Narayan : Famous Bollywood and Nepali singer from Bhardaha, Saptari 


== References ==

Samuel Simms (1784 – 1868) was an English organist and composer.


== Background ==
He was born in 1784, the son of John Simms (1744 - 1824) and his wife, Latitia Rogers. Samuel Simms was esteemed one of the finest organists of his time, and many of his siblings held musical posts in the Midlands.
In 1805 he was a candidate for the post of organist at St. Alkmund's Church, Whitchurch, Shropshire, but the conditions were so unsatisfactory that only three of those assembled would compete. He finally settled at St Thomas’ Church, Stourbridge, and held the position for half a century until his death.
In 1863 there was an attempt to force him to resign on a pension of £15 (equivalent to £1,629 in 2025)  per annum, at the instigation of the either the minister or some of the congregation. The exact complaint against him is not substantiated, but suggested to be related to the performance of his duties. He did however, command support from former pupils who rose to his defence.
His son, Samuel Simms (1836-1885) succeeded him at Stourbridge.


== Appointments ==
Organist of St Thomas' Church, Stourbridge 1809 - 1868


== Compositions ==
His compositions included organ and pianoforte pieces.


== References ==

This is a list of aircraft in alphabetical order beginning with 'P–Ph'.


== P–Ph ==


=== P&M Aviation ===
Ace Magic
Mainair Blade
Mainair Rapier
P&M Explorer
P&M GT450
P&M Pulsr
Pegasus Booster
Pegasus Quantum
Pegasus Quik
Solar Wings Ace
Solar Wings Breeze
Solar Wings Fever
Solar Wings Rumour
Solar Wings Rush
Solar Wings Scandal
Solar Wings Storm
Solar Wings Typhoon
Solar Wings Whisper


=== Paalson ===
(Paalson Flygplan)

Paalson Type 1
Paalson Type 2


=== Päätalo ===
(Raimo Päätalo)

Päätalo Tiira


=== PAC ===
(Pacific Airmotive Corp (Pres: John W Myers), Burbank, CA)

PAC Nomad
PAC Super 18S Tradewind


=== PAC ===
(Pacific Aerospace Corporation)

Pacific Aerospace Airtrainer
PAC Cresco
PAC Fletcher
PAC 750XL


=== PAC ===
JF-17 Thunder
MFI-17 Mushshak
MFI-395 Super Mushshak
Hongdu JL-8


=== PacAero ===
(PacAero Engineering Corporation)

Learstar Mark I
Learstar Mark II


=== PACE ===
(Pacific Aerospace Engineering Corporation)

PACE Gannet


=== Pacer ===
(Pacer Aircraft Co, Perth Amboy, NJ, 1928: New Pacer Aircraft Corp, Main & Grant, Fords, NJ)

Pacer 1929 Monoplane a.k.a. New Pacer 1929 Monoplane
Pacer Special a.k.a. New Pacer Special


=== Pacific ===
(Pacific Aeronautical Industries, 3135 Broderick St and 1480 Bush St, San Francisco, CA)

Pacific A


=== Pacific ===
(Pacific Airplane & Supply Co, Venice, CA)

Pacific Hawk (1921) twin engine 6-seater biplane
Pacific-Standard C-1 a.k.a. Rogers C-1


=== Pack ===
(Garland Pack, Nashville, TN / Pack & Associates)

Pack A
Pack B
Pack C
Pack D
Pack E


=== Packard-LePere ===
(Packard Motor Car Co, Detroit, MI)

Packard A
Packard-LePere LUSAC-11
Packard-LePere LUSAGH-11
Packard-LePere LUSAO-11
Packard-LePere LUSAC-12
Packard-LePere LUSAC-21
Packard-LePere LUSAGH-21
Packard-LePere LUSAC-25


=== Packard ===
(Packard Aircraft Co, Enid, OK)

Packard 1929 Aeroplane


=== PADC ===
(Philippine Aerospace Development Corporation)

PADC Defiant 300
PADC Hummingbird


=== PAF ===
(Philippines Air Force Research and Development Centre - PAFRDC)

PAF XT-001 Marko 1
PAF XT-004 Layang
PAF Kalabaw
PAF Limbas
PAF Cali


=== Pagé-Light ===
(Victor W Pagé & Oliver Light, Farmingdale, NY)

Pagé-Light 1909 Biplane


=== Pagotto Carpenterie ===
(Pagotto Carpenterie srl, Pianzano, Italy)

Pagotto Brako
Pagotto Brakogyro
Pagotto NAKEd


=== Paine ===
(Sim Paine, Booker, TX)

Paine Texan


=== PAL-V ===
(PAL-V International B.V.)

PAL-V Liberty


=== Paladin Industries ===
(Pennsauken, NJ)

Paladin Golden Eagle
Paladin Hercules
Paladin Sparrow


=== Pallavicino ===
(Cesare Pallavicino)

Pallavicino PS-1


=== Palmer ===
((Harry A) Palmer Motor Co, Boston, MA)

Palmer 1931Monoplane


=== Palmer ===
(Pan-American Corp (Fdr: Joe Palmer), San Antonio, TX)

Palmer 1929 Aeroplane
Palmer P-3


=== Palmgren ===
(David Palmgren, Wilmington, NC)

Palmgren 1910 Aeroplane


=== Palomino ===
(Palomino Aircraft Associates aka San Antonio Ave, San Antonio, TX)

Palomino 1962 Monoplane
Palomino 1965 Monoplane


=== PAM ===
(Performance Aviation Manufacturing Group)

PAM 100B Individual Lifting Vehicle
PAM 100T
PAM 200
PAM UAV


=== Panavia ===
(Panavia Aircraft GmbH)

Panavia Tornado


=== Panchenko ===
(A.N. Panchenko)

Panchenko ADP-01
Panchenko ADP-02
Panchenko ADP-03
Panchenko ADP-04 Ekranoplan
Panchenko K-1
Panchenko K-3
Panchenko Orpheus 1
Panchenko Orpheus 2
Panchenko Orpheus 3
Panchenko ADP-06


=== Pancoast ===
(Lewis M. Pancoast)

Pancoast Pelican


=== Pander ===
(Pander & Son) / (Nederlandse Fabriek van Vliegtuigen H. Pander & Zonen - Dutch Aircraft Factory H. Pander & Son).

Pander D
Pander E
Pander EG-100
Pander P.1 "Gypsy Pander"
Pander P.2 "Gypsy Pander"
Pander P.3
Pander Multipro (1932)
Pander S.4 Postjäger
Pander PH.1 Zögling (1930)]
Pander PH.2 Mayer
Pander-Gipsy
Pander Supersport


=== Panha ===
Panha Shabaviz 2-75
Panha 2091
Panha Shabviz 2061
Panha Shahed-278


=== Panzl ===
(Bruce H & Chris J Panzl, Livonia, MI)

Panzl PAN


=== Papin-Rouilly ===
(A. Papin and D. Rouilly)

Papin-Rouilly Gyroptère


=== Papoose ===
(Rim Kaminskas)

Papoose RK-1 Jungmeister I


=== PAR ===
(Parks Alumni Racer Consortium, Ferguson, MO)

PAR Special


=== Paraavis ===
(Moscow, Russia)

Paraavis Mirage
Paraavis Pegasus
Paraavis Sova
Paraavis Vityaz


=== Paraborne ===
(Kissimmee, FL)

Paraborne Backplane
Paraborne Aviation Buckshot
Paraborne DK Whisper


=== Paradelta Parma ===
(Paradelta Parma S.r.L., Parma, Italy)

Paradelta Bamboo
Paradelta Basic
Paradelta Bat Bitch
Paradelta Ben Hur
Paradelta BiBreak
Paradelta Big Bang
Paradelta Billiard
Paradelta Bingo
Paradelta Blaster
Paradelta Blazer
Paradelta Bomber
Paradelta Bora
Paradelta Break
Paradelta Breathless
Paradelta Breeze
Paradelta Breeze Biposto
Paradelta Brio
Paradelta Broken Wind
Paradelta Bull Ball
Paradelta Super Breeze


=== Paradise ===
(Paradise Indústria Aeronáutica, Feira de Santana, Brazil)

Paradise Eagle
Paradise P-1 LSA
Paradise P-2
Paradise P-4


=== Paramania ===
(Paramania LLC, London, United Kingdom)

Paramania Action
Paramania GTS
Paramania GTX
Paramania Reflex
Paramania Revo
Paramania Rokit
Paramania Vortex


=== Paramotor ===
(Oyster Bay, NY)

Paramotor Inc FX1
Paramotor Inc FX2
Paramotor Inc FX3
Paramotor Inc FX4
Paramotor Inc FX5


=== Paramotor Napedy Paralotniowe ===
(Warsaw, Poland)

Paramotor Mosquito


=== Paramotor Performance ===
(Bandhagen, Sweden)

Paramotor Performance M3


=== Paramount ===
(Paramount Aircraft Corp, Saginaw, MI)

Paramount Cabinaire 110
Paramount Cabinaire 165
Paramount Cabinaire A-70
Paramount Model 120 Sportster


=== Parapower ===
(Pilchowo, Poland)

Parapower Parapower


=== Parascender ===
(Parascender Technologies Inc, Kissimmee, FL)

Parascender I
Parascender II
Parascender Para-Ag


=== Parasport.de ===
(Schwanewede, Germany)

Parasport.de Action GT
Parasport.de Fun
Parasport.de Ozone Viper


=== Paratech ===
(Paratech AG, Appenzell, Switzerland)

Paratech P22
Paratech P12
Paratech P22
Paratech P25
Paratech P26
Paratech P28
Paratech P43
Paratech P45
Paratech P50
Paratech P70
Paratech P81
Paratech P Bi4
Paratech P Bi6


=== Paratour ===
(Saint-Chrysostome, Quebec, Canada)

Paratour SD
Paratour Titanium
Paratour Ultratrike
Paratour SD MiniMax
Paratour Green Eagle


=== Paratrek ===
(Auburn, CA)

Paratrek Angel 1
Paratrek Angel 2-B
Paratrek Angel 3
Paratrek Angel 4


=== Parazoom ===
(Rheine, Germany)

Parazoom Trio-Star Delta


=== Parisano ===
(Parisano Aerial Navigation Co, 320 West 42 St, New York, NY)

Parisano Paraplane


=== Parker ===
(Wilford Parker, Utah Aviation Co (aka Utah Aviation Assn), Grantsville, UT)

Parker 1911 Biplane


=== Parker ===
(William D "Billy" Parker, Ft Collins, CO and San Diecgo, CA)

Parker Pusher


=== Parker ===
((Fred) Parker Aircraft Co, Perry, IA)

Parker 1921 Biplane


=== Parker ===
((Willard) Parker Aircraft Corp, Cleveland, OH)

Parker Pal


=== Parker ===
(Calvin Y "Cal" Parker, Chicago, IL)

Parker Jeanie's Teenie
Parker Teenie Two
Parker Double Teenie
Parker Tin Wind


=== Parks ===
((Oliver L) Parks Aircraft Div, Parks Air Lines Inc/Parks Air College, East St Louis, IL)

Parks P-1
Parks P-1H
Parks P-1T
Parks P-1X
Parks P-2
Parks P-2A
Parks P-3 Arrow
Parks P-4


=== Parks ===
(Robert Parks, Greenville, SC)

Robert Parks P-1
Robert Parks P-2
Robert Parks P-3


=== Parmelee ===
(Philip O Parmelee, Matherson, MI)

Parmelee 1912 Biplane


=== Parmentier ===
Parmentier Wee Mite


=== Parnall ===
Parnall Scout
Parnall Perch
Parnall Pipit
Parnall Elf
Parnall Pixie
Parnall Puffin
Parnall Possum
Parnall Perch
Parnall Pike
Parnall Imp
Parnall Prawn
Parnall Parasol
Parnall 302
Parnall 311
Parnall 381
Parnall 382
Parnall G.4/31
Parnall Heck
Parnall Peto
Parnall Panther
Parnall Plover
Parnall 281 Hobo


=== Parquet ===
(Parquet)

Parquet 1


=== Parrish Aircraft Xperimental ===
(Plantation, FL)

Parrish Dart


=== Parseval ===
(August von Parseval / LFG)


=== Parso ===
(Harry Parso, San Jose, CA)

Parso Solo Sport
Cardoza-Parso PC-1


=== Parsons-Jocelyn ===
(Rodney Jocelyn & Lindsey Parsons, Ambler, PA)

Parsons-Jocelyn D-295
Parsons-Jocelyn PJ-260


=== Partenair ===
Partenair Mystere


=== Partenavia ===
Partenavia P.48 Astore
Partenavia P.52 Tigrotto
Partenavia P.53 Aeroscooter
Partenavia P.55 Tornado
Partenavia P.57 Fachiro
Partenavia P.59 Jolly
Partenavia P.64 Oscar
Partenavia P.66
Partenavia P.68
Partenavia P.70 Alpha
Partenavia P.86 Mosquito
Partenavia AP.68TP-300 Spartacus
Partenavia AP.68TP-600 Viator
Partenavia P.78


=== Partridge-Keller ===
((Elmer) Partridge-(Henry S) "Pop" Keller, P&K Flying School, Cicero, IL)

Partridge-Keller#1
Partridge-Keller Bi-Plane
Partridge-Keller Tractor Trainer


=== PAS ===
(Pennsylvania Aircraft Syndicate Ltd (Pres: E Burke Wilford), Philadelphia, PA)

PAS WRK
PAS XOZ


=== Paschke ===
(Paul & Ted Paschke, Hancock, MN)

Paschke 1928 Monoplane


=== Pashinin ===
Pashinin I-21
Pashinin S-82


=== Pasotti ===
Pasotti F.6 Airone
Pasotti F.9 Sparviero
Pasotti Aviojeep JP.1


=== Pasped ===
(Pasped Aircraft Co (founders: Fred Pastorius, Stanley Pederson), Glendale, CA 1941: Acquired by Skylark Mfg Co, Venice, CA)

Pasped W-1 Skylark


=== PAT ===
(Piper Advanced Technology Inc (Fdr: Howard "Pug" Piper, son of William T Piper Sr), Wichita, KS)

PAT-1 Pugmobile


=== Patchen ===
(Marvin Patchen, Ramona, CA)

Patchen Explorer


=== Patterson-Francis ===
((Charles) Patterson & (Roy N) Francis Aviation Co, San Francisco, CA)

Patterson-Francis Flying Boat
Patterson-Francis Twin-Tractor


=== Pattist ===
(M.P. Pattist & Laurens Walraven)

Pattist-Walraven PW-1


=== Paul ===
(W Luther Paul, Davis, NC)

Paul 1907 Helicopter


=== Paul Schmitt ===
(Ateliers de Constructions Mécaniques et Aéronautiques Paul Schmitt)

Paul Schmitt 1910 biplane (No.1)
Paul Schmitt 1910 modified biplane  (No.2?)
Paul Schmitt No.2
Paul Schmitt No.3
Paul Schmitt No.4
Paul Schmitt No.5
Paul Schmitt No.6
Paul Schmitt No.7
Paul Schmitt Type 1
Paul Schmitt Type 2
Paul Schmitt Type 3 (No.9)
Paul Schmitt Type 4 (Schmitt Bomber Renault - PS.4)
Paul Schmitt Type 5
Paul Schmitt Type 6
Paul Schmitt Type 7 Aerobus
Paul Schmitt Type 7/4
Paul Schmitt Type 8
Paul Schmitt Type 9
Paul Schmitt Type 10
Paul Schmitt Type 11
Paul Schmitt Type 12
Paul Schmitt Type 13
Paul Schmitt Type 3 floatplane (PS.3 on floats)
Paul Schmitt Type 10 floatplane
Paul Schmitt SBR (Schmitt Bomber Renault - PS.4)
Paul Schmitt C2


=== Paulic ===
(Rudy & Louis Paulic, Oakland, Burbank and Gardena, CA)

Paulic XT3-B
Paulic T4
Paulic T5


=== Paulista ===
see CAP


=== Paulson ===
(Albert Paulson, Northwood, ND)

Paulson Aeronef a.k.a. Gold Bug


=== Paumier ===
(Maurice Paumier)

Paumier MP.1
Paumier MP.2 Baladin


=== Paup ===
Paup P-Craft


=== Pause ===
(Flugzeugbau Rudolf Pause)

Pause Mücke


=== Pawnee ===
(McCook, NE)

Pawnee Warrior
Pawnee Chief


=== Paxman's Northern Aircraft ===
(Glenwood, Alberta, Canada)

Paxman Viper


=== Payen ===
(Nicolas Roland Payen)

Payen AP-10
Payen AP-12
Payen Pa 22
Payen Pa 47 Plein Air
Payen Pa 49 Katy
Payen Pa 60
Payen Pa 61 B Arbalète I
Payen Pa 61F Arbalète II
Payen Pa 61G
Payen Pa 61H
Payen Pa 610
Payen Pa 71
Payen Pa 100
Payen Pa 101
Payen Pa 120
Payen Pa 149


=== Payne ===
(Vernon W Payne, Chicago, IL, 1938: Payne Aircraft Corp, Joliet and Cicero, IL)

see Knight Twister
Payne MC-7 Pusher


=== Pazmany ===
((Ladislao) Pazmany Aircraft Corporation, San Diego, CA)

Pazmany PL-1 Laminar
Pazmany PL-2
Pazmany PL-4
Pazmany PL-9 Stork


=== PBN ===
PBN Defender


=== PC-Aero ===
PC-Aero Elektra One


=== PC-Flight ===
PC-Flight Pretty Flight


=== PDQ ===
(PDQ Aircraft Products)

PDQ-2


=== Peak Aerospace ===
(Neubrandenburg, Germany)

Peak Aerospace Me 109R


=== Péan ===
(Péan de Saint Gilles)

Péan monoplane


=== Pearson-Williams ===
((C R "Bud") Pearson-(Leland) Williams, Venice, CA)

Pearson-Williams PW-1


=== Peck ===
(Paul Peck, College Park, MD)

Peck Columbian


=== Peed ===
(Garland Peed Jr & Florence Patrica Kelley Peed, Santa Monica, CA)

Peed Biplane


=== Peel ===
(Peel Glider Boat Corporation, College Point, Queens, NY / Peel-Zelcer)

Peel-Zelcer Z-1 glider Boat


=== Peetermans ===
(M. Peetermans)

Peetermans SEA.1
Peetermans SEA.2


=== Pegas 2000 ===
(Pegas 2000 sro, Prague, Czech Republic)

Pegas Arcus
Pegas Avis
Pegas Bain
Pegas Bellus
Pegas Certus
Pegas Discus
Pegas Fazole
Pegas One
Pegas Pony
Pegas Power
Pegas Revo


=== Pegasus ===
(Pegasus Aircraft Mfg Co (Anthony A Guarniere & Jack Harris), Maple Heights, OH)

Pegasus 1931 Monoplane


=== Pegasus ===
(Pegasus Aviation)

Pegasus Booster
Pegasus Quantum
Pegasus Quantum 503
Pegasus Quantum Sport
Pegasus Quantum 582
Pegasus Quantum SuperSport
Pegasus Quantum 912
Pegasus Quik
Pegasus Quik 912S Executive
Pegasus QuikR


=== Pegasus d.o.o. ===
(Branik, Slovenia)

Pegasus EDA 100 Flamingo


=== Pegasus ===
( Pegasus Universal Aerospace)

Pegasus VBJ


=== Pegna ===
(Giovanni Pegna)

Pegna-Bonmartini Rondine


=== Peitz ===
(Peitz)

Peitz 101 Avionette


=== Pelegrin Limited ===
(Adazi, Latvia)

Pelegrin Tarragon


=== Pellarini ===
(Luigi Pellarini)

Pellarini PL.1
Pellarini PL.2C Aerauto built by Carrozzeria Colli
Pellarini PL.3C Aerauto built by Carrozzeria Colli
Aeronova A.E.R 1
Aerauto PL.5C
Aerauto PL.6C
Fawcett 120 “Illawarra Trainer”
Kingsford Smith PL.7
Pellarini Air Jeep
Bennett PL.9
Victa R.2
Bennett/Waitomo PL-11 Airtruck
Transavia PL-12 Airtruk
Pellarini PL.13


=== Pemberton-Billing ===
Pemberton-Billing P.B.1
Pemberton-Billing P.B.9
Pemberton-Billing P.B.23
Pemberton-Billing P.B.25
Pemberton-Billing P.B.29E
Pemberton-Billing P.B.31 Night Hawk


=== Peña ===
(Louis Peña, Dax, France)

Peña Bilouis
Peña Capeña
Peña Dahu
Peña Joker
Peña Super Joker


=== Pénaud ===
(Alphonse Pénaud)

Pénaud-Gauchot Amphibian
Pénaud tailless Monoplane


=== Pennec ===
(Serge Pennec, Locmaria-Plouzané, France)

Pennec Gaz'Aile 2


=== Pensacola ===
(Pensacola Metal Aircraft Co, Pensacola, FL)

Pensacola 1930 Biplane


=== Pensuti ===
(Emilio Pensuti)

Pensuti 2
Caproni-Pensuti triplane
Breda-Pensuti B.2


=== Pentecost ===
(Horace T. Pentecost)

Pentecost HX-1 Hoppi-Copter


=== Per Il Volo ===
(Citadella, Italy)

Per Il Volo Miniplane


=== Percheron ===
(Maurice Percheron)

Percheron 18 (no info except a photograph posted in a forum!!!)


=== Percival ===
Percival Type D Gull
Percival Type E Mew Gull
Percival Type K Vega Gull
Percival Type Q.4
Percival Type Q.6
Percival Type Q Petrel
Percival P.28 Proctor
Percival P.29 Proctor
Percival P.30 Proctor
Percival P.31 Proctor
Percival P.40 Prentice
Percival P.46 Youngman-Baynes High Lift
Percival P.48 Merganser
Percival P.49 Merganser II
Percival P.50 Prince
Percival P.54 Survey Prince
Percival P.56 Provost
Percival P.57 Sea Prince
Percival P.66 Pembroke
Percival P.66 President
Percival P.74


=== Percy ===
(Graham J. Percy)

Percy Maya


=== Perdrix ===
(Perdrix)

Perdrix RP.01


=== Peregrine ===
(Peregrine Flight International, Minden, NV)

Peregrine BD-10


=== Pereira ===
(George Pereira / Osprey, Sacramento, CA)

Pereira X-28A Sea Skimmer
Pereira GP-2 Osprey I
Pereira GP-3 Osprey II


=== Peris ===
(Jim Peris, Lancaster, PA)

Peris JN-1


=== Performance Aircraft ===
(Olathe, KS)

Performance Aircraft Formula GT
Performance Aircraft Legend


=== Perry ===
(Thomas O Perry, Chicago, IL, Chicago Helicopters Ltd, Chicago, IL)

Perry 1923 Helicopter


=== Perry ===
(W Parker Perry, R D No. 6, Trenton, NJ)

Perry P-1


=== Perry Beadle ===
(Perry, Beadle & Co.)

Perry Beadle T.1
Perry Beadle T.2


=== Personal Flight ===
(Chelan, WA)

Personal Flight Sky-Bike
Personal Flight Sky-Bike Trike
Personal Flight Sky-Tender


=== Pescara ===
(Raúl Pateras Pescara)

Pescara Model 1 helicopter
Pescara Model 2 helicopter
Pescara Model 2F helicopter
Pescara Model 3 helicopter
Pescara Model 4S helicopter


=== Pescara-Guidoni ===
(Raúl Pateras Pescara / Lt. Allessandro Guidoni)

Pescara-Guidoni Torpedo Seaplane


=== Peszke ===
(Grzegorz Peszke)

Peszke GP5	two-seater, Ultralight aircraft (2005)
Peszke GP10 Axis	single-seater, glider (2013)
Peszke GP11 Pulse one-seater, glider
Peszke GP12 Flex	one-seat, glider
Peszke GP14 Velo	one-seater, glider


=== Peters ===
((Alva A) Peters Aircraft Co, Salinas, CA)

Peters AL-1
Peters Play Plane a.k.a. NABA Sportster


=== Peterson ===
(Peterson's performance Plus / Todd Peterson)

Peterson 260SE


=== Peterson ===
(David G Peterson, Tulsa, OK)

Peterson Skyline Super-V


=== Peterson ===
(Pete Peterson, Davenport, IA)

Peterson Hi-Hopes


=== Peterson & Campbell ===
(Lloyd H Peterson and Mark M Campbell, Los Angeles, CA)

Peterson & Campbell 1932 Monoplane


=== Petit ===
(George Petit, Harvey, IL)

Petit Special


=== Petitbon ===
Petitbon RP-40


=== Petlyakov ===
Petlyakov Pe-2
Petlyakov Pe-3
Petlyakov Pe-8
Petlyakov VI-100
Petlyakov PB-100


=== Petróczy-Kármán-Žurovec ===
( Major Stephan Petróczy -  Oberleutnant Dr. Theodor von Kármán and Ingenieurleutnant Wilhelm Žurovec)

Petróczy-Kármán-Žurovec PKZ-1  1917 tethered helicopter (Schraubenfesselflieger)
Petróczy-Kármán-Žurovec PKZ-2  1917 tethered helicopter (Schraubenfesselflieger)


=== Petrolini Hermanos ===
Petrolini El Boyero


=== Peyret ===
(Ateliers Peyret / Louis Peyret)http://www.lakesgc.co.uk/mainwebpages/Sailplane%20&%20Glider%201930%20-%201955/volume%204%20No.%206%20Mar%2031%201933.pdf

Peyret-Abrial A-2 Vautour (Vulture)
Peyret-Abrial A-5 Rapace
Peyret Alérion
Peyret 1923 powered Alérion http://www.flightglobal.com/pdfarchive/view/1923/1923%20-%200215.html
Peyret Avionette
Peyret-Le Prieur seaplane
Peyret VI Taupin http://www.flightglobal.com/pdfarchive/view/1946/1946%20-%201726.html, Sailplane & Glider 31 Mar 1933 says 8.4m main and 6.5m rear wing spans
SFCA-Peyret Taupin
Peyret-Nessler Libellule (with Eric Nessler)


=== Peyret-Mauboussin ===
(Louis Peyret et Pierre Mauboussin)

Peyret-Mauboussin PM X
Peyret-Mauboussin PM XI
Peyret-Mauboussin PM XII
Peyret-Mauboussin PM 110
Peyret-Mauboussin PM 111


=== Peyronnenc ===
(Pierre Peyronnenc)

Pierre Peyronnenc PP.1


=== Pfalz ===
(Pfalz Flugzeug-Werke G.m.b.H.)

Pfalz A.I
Pfalz A.II
Pfalz C.I
Pfalz D type
Pfalz D experimental
Pfalz D.III
Pfalz D.IV
Pfalz D.VI
Pfalz D.VII
Pfalz D.VIII
Pfalz D.XII
Pfalz D.XIV
Pfalz D.XV
Pfalz Dr experimental
Pfalz Dr.I
Pfalz Dr.II
Pfalz E.I
Pfalz E.II
Pfalz E.III
Pfalz E.IV
Pfalz E.V
Pfalz E.VI


=== Pfeifer ===
(Joe Pfeifer, St Louis MO. 19??: Burbank CA.)

Pfeifer JL Sport a.k.a. Special
Pfeifer Nieuport 11 replica
Pfeifer Sopwith Snipe replica
Pfeifer Sport


=== Pfitzner ===
(Alexander Pfitzner)

Pfitzner Flyer


=== Phalanx organization ===
Phalanx MP-18 Dragon


=== Phantom ===
(Phantom Aeronautics)

Phantom X1
Phantom X1E
Phantom X2
Phantom I
Phantom I-E
Phantom II
Phantom Classic


=== Phantom Knight ===
(Phantom Knight Aircraft Co, Oak Park, IL)

Phantom Knight A-150


=== Phase 3 Aircraft ===
Phase 3 Eclipse


=== Pheasant ===
(Pheasant Aircraft Co, Fond du Lac, WI)

Pheasant H-10
Pheasant Traveler


=== Phenix Aviation ===
Phenix Aviation Phenix


=== Philippine Aerospace Development Corporation ===
PADC Defiant 300
PADC Hummingbird


=== Phillips ===
(Lt D B Phillips, San Antonio, TX)

Phillips Alouette The Fly


=== Phillips ===
(Robert J Phillips, Nutley, NJ)

Phillips 1930 Monoplane


=== Phillips ===
(Howard A Phillips, Newark, OH)

Phillips P-2


=== Phillips ===
((James A) Phillips Aviation Co, South Pasadena and Van Nuys, CA)

Phillips 1-B Aeroneer
Phillips XPT
Phillips CT-1 Skylark
Phillips CT-2 Skylark
Phillips-Fleet 7


=== Phillips ===
(Peter J. C. Phillips)

Phillips ST1 Speedtwin
Phillips ST2 Speedtwin


=== Phinn ===
(Willard J Phinn, Chicago, IL)

Phinn Arrow B-7


=== Phönix ===
(Phönix Flugzeug-Werke AG)

Phönix C.I
Phönix C.II
Phönix D.I
Phönix D.II
Phönix D.IIa
Phönix D.III
Phönix D.IV
Phönix 21 - (Albatros B.I(Ph.))
Phönix 22 - (Albatros B.I(Ph.))
Phönix 23 with Austro-Daimler 160hp (120 kW) engine (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 24 - (Albatros B.I(Ph.))
Phönix 25 - (Knoller C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 26 with Austro-Daimler 160hp (120 kW) engine (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 26.17 - evaluation of a turret armed 26 series
Phönix 27 with Austro-Daimler 185hp (140 kW) engine (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 28 - (Hansa-Brandenburg D.I(Ph.))
Phönix 29 with Austro-Daimler 210hp (160 kW) engine (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 29.5 with 150 kW (200 hp) Hiero 6 (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 121 - (Phönix C.I)
Phönix 122 - (Phönix D.II)
Phönix 123 - (UFAG C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 128 - (Phönix D.I)
Phönix 129 with 150 kW (200 hp) Hiero 6 (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 222 - (Phönix D.II)
Phönix 222.100 - (D.III)
Phönix 228 - (Phönix D.I)
Phönix 229 with 150 kW (200 hp) Hiero 6 (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 322 - (Phönix D.II)
Phönix 328 - (Phönix D.I)
Phönix 329 with 150 kW (200 hp) Hiero 6 (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 422 - (Phönix D.IIa)
Phönix 422.23 - 1918 Fighter Evaluation Trials prototype
Phönix 429 with 170 kW (230 hp) Hiero 6 (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 350hp biplane
Phönix Monoplane
Phönix Type 13 reconnaissance biplane
Phönix rotary engined fighter
Phönix rotary engined parasol fighter
Phönix 20.01 - (originally ÖAlb.01)
Phönix 20.02 - (Albatrros B.I(Ph.))(Hiero 200 hp inverted V-8, later 300 hp Austro-Daimler V-12)
Phönix 20.03 - (Albatrros B.I(Ph.))
Phönix 20.04 - (Albatrros B.I(Ph.))
Phönix 20.05 - (Albatrros B.I(Ph.))
Phönix 20.06 - (Albatrros B.I(Ph.))
Phönix 20.07 - (Albatrros B.I(Ph.))
Phönix 20.08 - (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 20.09 - (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.))
Phönix 20.10 - twin engined Kampfflugzeug
Phönix 20.11 - Own design triplane bomber prototype cancelled during construction
Phönix 20.12 - Own design triplane bomber prototype cancelled during construction
Phönix 20.13 - (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.) 29.90) with 220 hp Benz engine
Phönix 20.14 - (Hansa-Brandenburg D.I(Ph.) 28.48)
Phönix 20.15
Phönix 20.16 - (Phönix D.I)
Phönix 20.17
Phönix 20.18 - production as (Phönix D.II) & (D.IIa) became Phönix D.III with the Navy
Phönix 20.19
Phönix 20.20
Phönix 20.21 - (Hansa-Brandenburg C.I(Ph.)) with widened and shallower fuselage to accommodate a camera
Phönix 20.22 - 1918 Fighter Evaluation Trials prototype - (Phönix D.II)/(D.IIa)
Phönix 20.23 - 1918 Fighter Evaluation Trials prototype - (Phönix D.II)/(D.IIa)
Phönix 20.24 - 1918 Fighter Evaluation Trials prototype
Phönix 20.25 - 1918 Fighter Evaluation Trials prototype
Phönix 20.28
Phönix 20.29


=== Phoenix Air ===
(Phoenix Air (aircraft manufacturer), Czech Republic)

Phoenix Air Phoenix


=== Phoenix Aircraft ===
(Munich, Germany)

Phoenix Aircraft Maverick PA


=== Phoenix ===
(Phoenix Aircraft Ltd., Cranleigh, Surrey, United Kingdom)

Phoenix P.A.4a Minor
Phoenix P.A.5a Major


=== Phoenix ===
(Phoenix-Flugzeugwerft GmbH / Oesterreichische Phoenix-Flugzeugwerft GmbH)

Phoenix Meteor L1
Phoenix Meteor L2
Phoenix LF4


=== Phoenix ===
(Phoenix Aircraft Corp (Pres: Joseph Klaus), 601 25th St, Milwaukee, WI)

Phoenix H-2


=== Phoenix ===
(Phoenix Dynamo Manufacturing Company)

Phoenix P.5 Cork


=== Phönix-Aviatechnica ===
Phönix-Aviatechnica LKhS-4
Phönix-Aviatechnica SL-90


=== Phoenix Gleitschirmantriebe ===
(Würselen, Germany)

Phoenix Skywalker


=== Phoenix Industries ===
(Phoenix Industries, Inc, Southampton, NJ)

Phoenix Industries B1Z ParaFlyer
Phoenix Industries CV1 ParaFlyer
Phoenix Industries TZ-1 ParaFlyer
Phoenix Industries Sport


=== Phoenix Rotorcraft ===
(Fallston, MD and Louisburg, NC)

Phoenix Skyblazer


== References ==


== Further reading ==


== External links ==

Yuya Oki (沖 悠哉, Oki Yuya; born 22 August 1999) is a Japanese professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for J1 League club Shimizu S-Pulse.


== Career ==
An Ibaraki native, Oki started his career with Kashima Antlers Junior. He made his way up through all of their youth ranks before making his professional debut in August 2020 for the Kashima first-team against Sagan Tosu in the J1 League. He kept a clean sheet as Kashima won 2–0. He made 24 league appearances in his debut season.
He became first-choice goalkeeper in the 2021 season, making 38 appearances across all competitions, however he fell out of favour in 2022 and only played two more league games for the club up to the end of the 2023 season.
In December 2023, it was announced that Oki would be moving on a permanent transfer to J2 League club Shimizu S-Pulse.


== Career statistics ==


=== Club ===
As of end of 2024 season.


== References ==


== External links ==
Yuya Oki at J.League (archive) (in Japanese)

José Manuel Miranda Boudy (born August 22, 1986, in Varadero, Matanzas Province) is a Cuban footballer who last played for Golden State Force in the Premier Development League.


== Career ==


=== Club ===
Miranda began his career in his native Cuba, playing for his local side, Matanzas.
Following his defection to the United States, Miranda signed on with Puerto Rican team Sevilla FC Puerto Rico, before eventually finding his way to southern California. He played for Los Angeles-based amateur team, before signing with the expansion Hollywood United Hitmen in the USL Premier Development League for the 2009 PDL season.


=== International ===
He made his senior international debut for Cuba in a February 2008 friendly match against Guyana and has earned a total of 2 caps, scoring no goals.
Miranda was called up to the Cuba national football team to compete in the qualifying tournament for the 2008 Summer Olympics. He started in the games against Trinidad and Tobago and Grenada, but following Cuba's game against the United States in Tampa, Florida, on March 11, 2008, Miranda defected under the US's wet foot dry foot policy along with six of his teammates.


== References ==


== External links ==
José Miranda at National-Football-Teams.com

Zhejiang Free-Trade zone, officially China (Zhejiang) Pilot Free-Trade Zone (Chinese: 中国（浙江）自由贸易试验区; pinyin: Zhōngguó (Zhèjiāng) Zìyóu Màoyì Shìyànqū) is a free-trade zone in Zhoushan, Zhejiang Province, China. Covering a total area of 119.95 square kilometres (46.31 sq mi) of land spaces and anchorage sea water, the FTZ consists of three parts - Outlying Islands Zone, Northern Zhoushan Island Zone and Southern Zhoushan Island Zone.
Established in 2014, the FTZ primarily focuses on trade of bulk commodity in eastern China, such as petroleum and oil products.


== References ==

Aoyama Tadashige (青山 忠重; July 7, 1654 – December 6, 1722) was a daimyō during mid-Edo period Japan.


== Biography ==
Aoyama Tadashige was the third son of Aoyama Munetoshi, the daimyō of Komoro Domain and was born in Komoro, Shinano Province. On August 5, 1683, he was adopted by his sickly elder brother Aoyama Tadao, at the time daimyō of Hamamatsu Domain (Tōtōmi Province). He became 5th head of the Aoyama clan and daimyō of Hamamatsu on his brother's death in 1685.
On September 7, 1702, Tadashige was transferred to Kameyama Domain in Tanba Province (50,000 koku), where his descendants remained for the next three generations. In September 1714, his courtesy title was changed to Inaba-no-kami. On June 18, 1722, he turned his titles over to his fourth son, Aoyama Toshiharu. He subsequently took the tonsure, and died three months later at age 69.
His grave is at the temple of Tōkai-ji in Shinagawa, Tokyo.


== References ==
Papinot, Edmond. (1906) Dictionnaire d'histoire et de géographie du japon. Tokyo: Librarie Sansaisha...Click link for digitized 1906 Nobiliaire du japon (2003)
The content of much of this article was derived from that of the corresponding article on Japanese Wikipedia.

Damien Cahalane (born 10 August 1992) is an Irish hurler and Gaelic footballer who plays as a centre-back for club sides St Finbarr's and Castlehaven and as a full-back at senior level with the Cork county hurling team.


== Early life ==
Cahalane was born in Wilton, Cork. His father, Niall Cahalane, and his uncle, John Cleary, won All-Ireland medals as members of the Cork senior football team in 1989 and 1990. His aunt, Nollaig Cleary, won nine All-Ireland medals with Cork. His brother, Conor Cahalane, has also played for Cork.


== Playing career ==


=== College ===
Cahalane first came to prominence as a dual player with Coláiste an Spioraid Naoimh in Bishopstown. Having played both codes at every grade, he won a Cork Colleges Under-16½ B medal in 2009.


=== University ===
As a student at University College Cork, Cahalane also became involved in Gaelic games. On 8 March 2012, he won an All-Ireland Freshers Championship medal following a 0–24 to 3–11 defeat of the University of Limerick.


=== Club ===
In spite of living in Cork city, Cahalane joined the Castlehaven football club in West Cork at a young age and played in all grades at juvenile and underage levels, winning two divisional under-21 championship medals and a county under-21 championship medal in 2010. He simultaneously played hurling with the St Finbarr's club. On 8 October 2012, Cahalane was at centre-back when Castlehaven defeated Duhallow by 1-7 to 0-9 to win the county senior championship. Castlehaven retained the title on 13 October 2013 after a two-point defeat of Nemo Rangers, with Cahalane winning a second championship medal.


=== Inter-county ===


==== Minor and under-21 ====
Cahalane first played for Cork as a member of the minor football team in 2009. A dual player in his second season at minor, he won a Munster medal with the footballers after a one-point defeat of Kerry in the final. On 19 September 2010, Cahalane was at midfield when Cork were defeated by Tyrone in the All-Ireland final.
Cahalane continued his dual status with the Cork under-21 teams, however, he enjoyed little success with the hurling team. During his three years with the Cork under-21 footballers, the team remained undefeated in the provincial championship, with Cahalane winning successive Munster medals in 2011, 2012 and 2013. Cahalane was captain of the team for the third title. On 4 May 2013, Cahalane was at full-back when Cork suffered a 1-14 to 1-11 defeat by Galway in the All-Ireland final.


==== Senior ====
Cahalane made his senior debut for Cork in a Waterford Crystal Cup defeat of Kerry on 4 February 2012. He made his first start in a National League game in a four-point defeat of Galway on 18 March 2012, before making his first championship start at full-back later that season in an All-Ireland Qualifier against Wexford. The following season, Cahalane switched codes to Gaelic football, making his senior debut in a McGrath Cup game on 6 January 2013. He made his first start in a National League game in a 1-18 to 2-09 defeat by Dublin on 2 February 2013, before making his first championship start later that season in a Munster Championship quarter-final against Limerick. Cahalane underwent a double hip operation at the end of the season.
At the start of 2014, Cahalane committed to playing for both the Cork senior hurling and football teams for the upcoming season. Following Cork's defeat by Kerry in the Munster final, Cahalane suffered a large gash to his heel when he stepped on a medicinal vial in the shower in Páirc Uí Chaoimh. The injury threatened his participation in the provincial hurling final, however, on 13 July 2014, Cahalane won his first Munster medal after a six-point defeat of Limerick.
At the end of the 2014 season Cahalane decided to end his association with the Cork football team and to concentrate on hurling. On 9 July 2017, he won his second Munster medal following a 1-25 to 1-20 defeat of Clare in the final.
On 1 July 2018, Cahalane won a third Munster medal following a 2-24 to 3-19 defeat of Clare in the final.
On the 6th of April 2025 Cahalane won his first National League title following at 3-24 to 0-23 defeat of Tipperary in Páirc Uí Chaoimh.


== Career statistics ==
As of 21 June 2026


== Honours ==
University College Cork
All-Ireland Freshers Hurling Championship: 2012
Castlehaven
Munster Senior Club Football Championship: 2023
Cork Premier Senior Football Championship: 2012, 2013, 2023
Cork Under-21 Football Championship: 2010
St Finbarr's
Cork Premier Senior Hurling Championship: 2022
Cork
Munster Senior Hurling Championship: 2014, 2017, 2018, 2025
National Hurling League: 2025
Munster Under-21 Football Championship: 2011, 2012, 2013 (c)
Munster Minor Football Championship: 2010


== References ==


== External links ==

Damien Cahalane profile Archived 25 May 2014 at the Wayback Machine at the Cork GAA website

Miroslav Šustera (March 15, 1878 – December 15, 1961) was a Czech track and field athlete and wrestler who competed in the 1906 Summer Olympics, in the 1908 Summer Olympics, and in the 1912 Summer Olympics. He was born and died in Prague.
In 1906, he finished seventh in the Greek discus throw event and twelfth in the ancient pentathlon competition. He also participated in the discus throw event, but his result is unknown.
Four years later, he participated in the Greek discus throw event and in the discus throw competition, but in both contests his result is unknown. At the 1908 Olympics, he also competed in the Greco-Roman light heavyweight event but was eliminated in the first round after losing his fight to Walter West.
His last Olympic appearance was in 1912 when he finished 38th in the discus throw event.


== References ==


== External links ==
profile

Miroslav Šustera at World Athletics
Miroslav Šustera at Tilastopaja (registration required)
Miroslav Šustera at Olympics.com
Miroslav Šustera at the Czech Olympic Committee (in Czech)
Miroslav Šustera at Olympedia

Professor Edgeworth may refer to:

Francis Ysidro Edgeworth (1845–1926), Drummond Professor of Political Economy at Oxford University
A fictional pseudonym of Time Lord Azmael in The Twin Dilemma, a Doctor Who story
The Edgeworth Professor of Economics at Oxford University

Lawrence County is the easternmost county in the U.S. state of Illinois. At the 2020 census, the population was 15,280. Its county seat is Lawrenceville.


== History ==
Lawrence County was formed in 1821 out of Crawford and Edwards counties. It was named for Capt. James Lawrence, who was killed in action during the War of 1812 while commanding the frigate USS Chesapeake. Mortally wounded, he gave his men the famous last order, "Don't give up the ship."


== Geography ==
According to the U.S. Census Bureau, the county has a total area of 374 square miles (970 km2), of which 372 square miles (960 km2) is land and 2.0 square miles (5.2 km2) (0.5%) is water.


=== Climate and weather ===

In recent years, average temperatures in the county seat of Lawrenceville have ranged from a low of 18 °F (−8 °C) in January to a high of 88 °F (31 °C) in July, although a record low of −26 °F (−32 °C) was recorded in January 1994 and a record high of 104 °F (40 °C) was recorded in June 1988.  Average monthly precipitation ranged from 2.51 inches (64 mm) in February to 5.13 inches (130 mm) in May.


=== Transit ===
Rides Mass Transit District


=== Major highways ===
 U.S. Route 50
 Illinois Route 1
 Illinois Route 33
 Illinois Route 250


=== Adjacent counties ===
Crawford County - north
Knox County, Indiana - east
Wabash County - south
Richland County - west


== Demographics ==


=== 2020 census ===
As of the 2020 census, the county had a population of 15,280. The median age was 41.4 years. 19.3% of residents were under the age of 18 and 19.1% of residents were 65 years of age or older. For every 100 females there were 124.9 males, and for every 100 females age 18 and over there were 129.6 males age 18 and over.
The racial makeup of the county was 84.3% White, 9.2% Black or African American, 0.1% American Indian and Alaska Native, 0.4% Asian, 0.1% Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander, 2.4% from some other race, and 3.6% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino residents of any race comprised 3.4% of the population.
30.3% of residents lived in urban areas, while 69.7% lived in rural areas.
There were 5,571 households in the county, of which 28.3% had children under the age of 18 living in them. Of all households, 47.3% were married-couple households, 18.7% were households with a male householder and no spouse or partner present, and 27.0% were households with a female householder and no spouse or partner present. About 30.7% of all households were made up of individuals and 14.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.
There were 6,279 housing units, of which 11.3% were vacant. Among occupied housing units, 73.8% were owner-occupied and 26.2% were renter-occupied. The homeowner vacancy rate was 1.7% and the rental vacancy rate was 10.4%.


=== Racial and ethnic composition ===


=== 2010 census ===
As of the 2010 United States census, there were 16,833 people, 6,130 households, and 4,056 families living in the county. The population density was 45.2 inhabitants per square mile (17.5/km2). There were 6,936 housing units at an average density of 18.6 per square mile (7.2/km2). The racial makeup of the county was 87.3% white, 9.6% black or African American, 0.2% Asian, 0.2% American Indian, 1.7% from other races, and 1.0% from two or more races. Those of Hispanic or Latino origin made up 3.3% of the population. In terms of ancestry, 12.7% were German, 10.4% were American, 9.5% were Irish, and 7.8% were English.
Of the 6,130 households, 28.6% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 50.7% were married couples living together, 10.7% had a female householder with no husband present, 33.8% were non-families, and 30.1% of all households were made up of individuals. The average household size was 2.34 and the average family size was 2.88. The median age was 39.7 years.
The median income for a household in the county was $38,771 and the median income for a family was $45,565. Males had a median income of $40,949 versus $25,991 for females. The per capita income for the county was $19,297. About 14.8% of families and 17.5% of the population were below the poverty line, including 26.9% of those under age 18 and 7.7% of those age 65 or over.


== Communities ==


=== Cities ===
Bridgeport
Lawrenceville (seat)
St. Francisville
Sumner


=== Village ===
Russellville


=== Unincorporated communities ===


=== Townships ===
Nine townships make up Lawrence County. They are:


== Politics ==
In its early days, Lawrence County was a Democratic-leaning swing county, voting Republican only twice up to 1892 when it supported Ulysses S. Grant in 1872 and Benjamin Harrison in 1888. It did not vote for a losing Republican candidate until Wendell Willkie carried the county in 1940 due to isolationist sentiment. Since that time, however, Lawrence County – like so many in Southern Illinois – has become reliably Republican. The only Democrat to gain an absolute majority in the county since 1936 has been Lyndon Johnson in 1964, although Bill Clinton obtained pluralities in both 1992 and 1996.


== See also ==
National Register of Historic Places listings in Lawrence County, Illinois


== References ==


== External links ==
Lawrence County official site
Lawrence County Fact Sheet, Illinois State Archives
Blue Star Emergency Medical Services Official Site

Kos or Cos (; Greek: Κως [kos]) is a Greek island, part of the Dodecanese island chain in the southeastern Aegean Sea. Kos is the third largest island of the Dodecanese, after Rhodes and Karpathos; it has a population of 37,089 (2021 census), making it the second most populous of the Dodecanese after Rhodes. The island measures 42.1 by 11.5 kilometres (26 by 7 miles). Administratively, Kos constitutes a municipality within the Kos regional unit, which is part of the South Aegean region. The principal town of the island and seat of the municipality is the town of Kos.


== Name ==
The name Kos (Ancient Greek: Κῶς) is first attested in the Iliad, and has been in continuous use since. Other ancient names include Meropis, Cea, and Nymphaea.
In many Romance languages, Kos was formerly known as Stancho, Stanchio, or Stinco, and in Turkish it is known as İstanköy (Ottoman Turkish: استانكوی), all from the reinterpretation of the Greek expression εις την Κω 'to Kos'; cf. the similar Istanbul and Stimpoli, Crete. Under the rule of the Knights Hospitaller of Rhodes, it was known as Lango or Langò, presumably because of its length. In The Travels of Sir John Mandeville, the author misunderstands this and treats Lango and Kos as distinct islands. In Italian, the island is known as Coo.
A person from Kos is called a "Koan" (or "Coan") in English. The word is also an adjective, as in "Koan goods".


== Geography ==
Kos is part of the Dodecanese island chain in the southeastern Aegean Sea, and is located south of Kalymnos and Pserimos and north of Nisyros. Its coastline is 112 kilometres (70 miles) long, extending from west to east.
The island has several promontories, some with names dating from antiquity: Cape Skandari or Skandarion in the northeast; Cape Lacter or Lakter in the south; and Cape Drecanum or Drekanon in the west.
In addition to the main town and port, also called Kos, the main villages of Kos island are Kardamena, Kefalos, Tigaki, Antimachia, Mastihari, Marmari and Pyli. Smaller ones are Zia, Zipari, Platani, Lagoudi and Asfendiou.


== Climate ==
Kos has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate.


== Municipality ==

The present municipality of Kos was created in 2011 with the merger of three municipalities, which became municipal units:

Dikaios
Irakleides
Kos
The municipality has an area of 290,313 km2, and has a municipal unit of 67.200 km2.


== Economy ==
Tourism is the main industry in Kos, the island's beaches being the primary attraction. The main port and population centre on the island, Kos town, is also a tourist and cultural centre, with whitewashed buildings including many hotels, restaurants and a number of nightclubs forming the town's "bar street". The seaside village of Kardamena is a popular resort for young holidaymakers (primarily from the United Kingdom and Scandinavia) and has a large number of bars and nightclubs.
The last decade has seen a significant growth in the number of luxury hotels. While one-star and two-star hotels have decreased, four-star and five-star luxury hotels have sprung up throughout the island. From 2014 to 2023, five-star hotels have practically doubled, both in units (+95.83%) and in total beds (+103.32%). Significant but smaller, is the increase of four-star hotels, both in units (+34.15%) and in total beds (+8.5%).
Farming is the second principal occupation, with the main crops being grapes, almonds, figs, watermelons, olives, and tomatoes, along with wheat and corn. Cos lettuce (romaine lettuce) is named after the island, from where it is said to have originated.


== History ==


=== Mythological origins ===
In Homer's Iliad, a contingent of Koans fought for the Greeks in the Trojan War.
In classical mythology the founder-king of Kos was Merops, hence "Meropian Kos" is included in the archaic Delian amphictyony listed in the 7th-century Homeric hymn to Delian Apollo; the island was visited by Heracles. Kos was said to be the birthplace of the goddess Leto; the mother of Apollo. Supposedly Leto's father Coeus was the first inhabitant of the island.
The island was supposedly colonised by the Carians, but Dorians invaded it in the 11th century BC, establishing a Dorian colony with a large contingent of settlers from Epidaurus, whose Asclepius cult made their new home famous for its sanatoria.


=== Archaic Era ===
Its early history – as part of the religious-political amphictyonic league that included Lindos, Kamiros, Ialysos, Knidos and Halicarnassus, the Doric Hexapolis (hexapolis means 'six cities' in Greek), – is obscure. At the end of the 6th century, Kos fell under Achaemenid domination but rebelled after the Greek victory at the Battle of Mycale in 479. Archaeological finds have shown the existence of a small shrine to Hemera and Helios; gods of the day and the sun respectively.


=== Classical Era ===

During the Greco-Persian Wars, before it twice expelled the Persians, Kos was ruled by Persian-appointed tyrants, but as a rule it seems to have been under oligarchic government. In the 5th century, it joined the Delian League, and, after the revolt of Rhodes, it served as the chief Athenian station in the south-eastern Aegean (411–407 BC). In 366 BC, a democracy was instituted and the capital was transferred from Astypalaea (at the west end of the island near the modern village of Kefalos) to the newly built town of Cos, laid out in a Hippodamian grid. After helping to weaken Athenian power, in the Social War (357–355 BC), it fell for a few years to king Mausolus of Caria.
Proximity to the east gave the island first access to imported silk thread. Aristotle mentions silk weaving conducted by the women of the island. Silk production of garments was conducted in large factories by female slaves.


==== Coae vestes ====
Older research believed that the island was known in antiquity for the manufacture of transparent light dresses, the coae vestes. This view goes back to Aristotle, and it has been challenged by modern research. The term Coae vestes seems to refer to a type of silk garment and not the site of production (the island of Kos). The origin of the term is ultimately unclear.


=== Hellenistic Era ===

During the course of the Fourth War of the Diadochi Ptolemy I Soter captured Kos from Antigonus I Monophthalmus, incorporating it into his kingdom. In the Hellenistic period, Kos attained the zenith of its prosperity. Kos was valued by the Ptolemies, who used it as a naval outpost to oversee the Aegean. As a seat of learning, it arose as a provincial branch of the museum of Alexandria, and became a favourite resort for the education of the princes of the Ptolemaic dynasty. During the Hellenistic age, there was a medical school; however, the theory that this school was founded by Hippocrates (see below) during the Classical age is an unwarranted extrapolation. It was the home of the major Hellenistic poet-scholar Philitas.
Despite the incorporation of Kos into the Ptolemaic Kingdom, the island kept its political autonomy (shown in a 3rd-century BC decree found at Kos). The island was ruled autonomously through to its citizens assembly and magistrates (the monarch, the prostates, the exegetes, etc.). The fact that the city could legislate and apply its own laws shows political independence from the Ptolemaic Kingdom. The city-state remained in control of its political institutions and civil rights.
Kos also became a center of production of unrefined silk, oars and amphorae. Kos economic development during the period can further be exemplified by the 3rd- and 2nd-century BC construction of a theatre, a new market with multiple stoas, a temple to Apollo at Alisarna, construction and expansion of the Asclepeion, fortification works at Alisarna and multiple richly decorated houses. In 240 BC, Ziaelas of Bithynia, Seleucus II Callinicus and Ptolemy III Euergetes provided guarantees for the transformation of Kos Asclepeion into an asylum. This decision made Kos a more attractive destination for merchants and pilgrims.
Kos had a strong reputation for justice from the late fourth century BC and was called on more frequently than any other city in the Hellenistic period to provide judges for the arbitration of disputes between and within other cities. Between 310 and 300 BC, Kos arbitrated a dispute between Klazomenai and Teos, provided a temporary law code for the synoecism of Teos and Lebedus, and accepted requests to send judges to resolve internal disputes at Ilium, Samos, and Telos. In the following two centuries, they accepted further requests to send judges to Naxos, Thasos, Erythrae, Mytilene, and four cities whose names are not preserved. The Koan settlement of the dispute at Telos is recorded in an inscription (IG XII.4.1 132); one of the most detailed surviving records of foreign judges activities in the Hellenistic period. This judgement, drawing on Koan religious and financial regulations, allowed a group convicted of political crimes to pay off their fines and be reconciled with the wider community by paying for sacrifices and repairs to temples.
Diodorus Siculus (xv. 76) and Strabo (xiv. 657) describe it as a well-fortified port. Its position gave it a high importance in Aegean trade; while the island itself was rich in wines of considerable fame. Under Alexander the Great and the Ptolemies the town developed into one of the great centers in the Aegean; Josephus quotes Strabo to the effect that Mithridates I of the Bosporus was sent to Kos to fetch the gold deposited there by queen Cleopatra of Egypt. Herod is said to have provided an annual stipend for the benefit of prize-winners in the athletic games, and a statue was erected there to his son Herod the Tetrarch ("C. I. G." 2502 ). Paul briefly visited Kos according to Acts 21:1.


=== Roman Era ===

Except for occasional incursions by corsairs and some severe earthquakes, the island's peace was rarely disturbed. Following the lead of its larger neighbour, Rhodes, Kos generally displayed a friendly attitude toward the Romans; in 53 AD it was made a free city. The island of Kos also featured a provincial library during the Roman period. The island first became a center for learning during the Ptolemaic dynasty, and Hippocrates, Apelles, Philitas and possibly Theocritus came from the area. An inscription lists people who made contributions to build the library in the 1st century AD. One of the people responsible for the library's construction was the Koan physician Gaius Stertinius Xenophon, who lived in Rome and was the personal physician of the Emperors Tiberius, Claudius, and Nero.
Herod, king of Judaea, ensured the perpetual funding for the gymnasiarch's annual office on Kos. An inscription from the assembly of the island, dating around 14 BC, honours Gaius Iulius Herodes, affirming Herod's adoption of the Roman tria nomina; possibly relating to this financial support or another endowment.


=== Byzantine Era ===

The bishopric of Kos was a suffragan of the metropolitan see of Rhodes. Its bishop Meliphron attended the First Council of Nicaea in 325. Eddesius was one of the minority Eastern bishops who withdrew from the Council of Sardica in about 344 and set up a rival council at Philippopolis. Iulianus went to the synod held in Constantinople in 448 in preparation for the Council of Chalcedon of 451, in which he participated as a legate of Pope Leo I, and he was a signatory of the joint letter that the bishops of the Roman province of Insulae sent in 458 to Byzantine Emperor Leo I the Thracian with regard to the killing of Proterius of Alexandria. Dorotheus took part in a synod in 518. Georgius was a participant of the Third Council of Constantinople in 680–681. Constantinus went to the Photian Council of Constantinople (879). Under Byzantine rule, apart from the participation of its bishops in councils, the island's history remains obscure. It was governed by a droungarios in the 8th–9th centuries, and seems to have acquired some importance in the 11th and 12th centuries: Nikephoros Melissenos began his uprising here, and in the middle of the 12th century, it was governed by a scion of the ruling Komnenos dynasty, Nikephoros Komnenos.
Today the ecclesiastical metropolis of Kos remains under the direct authority of the Patriarchate of Constantinople, rather than the Church of Greece, and is also listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see.


=== Genoese Era ===

Following the 11th century, Kos passed under Genoese control, although it was a Byzantine territory and kept for a while by the Empire of Nicaea. Genoese ruled as protectorate and lasted over four centuries. In the 1320s, Kos nominally formed a part of the realm of Genoese Vignolo de Vignoli. The Knights Hospitaller were hosted over the island paying a rent to Genoese republic. From the 14th century onwards the island experienced raids of Turkish corsairs. During this period two towers were built in the southeast and southwest sections of the castle during the raids of Yıldırım Bayezid between 1391 and 1396. Kos faced its first serious Ottoman attack in 1455. The navy under the command of Hamza Bey attacked the island, besieged and destroyed the Andimacheia Castle. The last Hospitaller governor of the island was Piero de Ponte.


=== Ottoman Era ===

During the conquest of Rhodes in 1522, it was surrendered to the Ottomans due to the terms of the agreement. When Captain Behram Bey arrived in front of Kos and Bodrum, the castle guards handed over the castle to him and left, and this news reached the camp on 17 Safer 929 (5 January 1523). As soon as the island was taken, a qadi, a castellan and guards were sent to the largest and fortified castle, Nerantzia, which was repaired. The Greek Orthodox people of the island were left in their places and their residence was provided in the suburbs outside the castle.
During the course of the Orlov revolt, a Russian fleet anchored off the Kos castle. On the night of 5 August 1773, the Russians dispatched a landing party intending to capture the castle. They suffered heavy casualties in the ensuing battle. The Russian ships departed Kos two days later, having failed to achieve their objective.
According to the Ottoman General Census of 1881/82–1893, the kaza of İstanköy (استانكوی) had a total population of 12,965, consisting of 10,459 Greeks, 2,439 Muslims and 67 Jews. The island was occupied by the Kingdom of Italy on 20 May 1912.


=== Italian Rule and WWII ===

Kos was transferred to the Kingdom of Italy in 1912 after the Italo-Turkish War. The Italians developed the infrastructures of the island, after the ruinous earthquake of 23 April 1933, which destroyed a great part of the old city and damaged many new buildings. Architect Rodolfo Petracco drew up the new city plan, transforming the old quarters into an archaeological park, and dividing the new city into a residential, an administrative, and a commercial area.
In World War II, the island, as an Italian possession, was controlled by the Axis, until the Italians surrendered in 1943. British and German forces then clashed for control of the island in the Battle of Kos as part of the Dodecanese Campaign, in which the Germans were victorious. Following the battle, 100 Italian officers who had refused to join the Germans were executed in what became known as the Massacre of Kos. German troops occupied the island until 1945, when it became a protectorate of the United Kingdom, which ceded it to the Kingdom of Greece in 1947 following the Paris Peace Treaty.


=== Contemporary ===
There is a Closed Controlled Access Centre (CCAC), i.e. a refugee camp, with a stated capacity of 2,140. It is one of a number on Greek islands.


== Geology ==

The island is part of a chain of mountains from which it became separated after earthquakes and subsidence that occurred in ancient times. The remnants of these mountains include the islands of Kalymnos and Kappari which are separated by an underwater chasm approximately 70 metres (230 ft; 38 fathoms) deep, as well as the volcano of Nisyros and the surrounding islands.
There is a wide variety of rocks in Kos which is related to its geographical formation. Prominent among these are the Quaternary layers in which the fossil remains of mammals such as horses, hippopotami and elephants have been found. The fossilised molar of an elephant of gigantic proportions was presented to the Paleontology Museum of the University of Athens.


== Religion ==

The people of Kos are predominantly Orthodox Christians; one of the four Orthodox cathedrals in the Dodecanese is located in Kos. In addition, there is a Roman Catholic church on the island and a mosque for the Turkish Muslim community. The synagogue is no longer used for religious ceremonies, as the Jewish community of Kos was targeted and destroyed by occupying German forces in World War II. It has, however, been restored and is maintained with all religious symbols intact, and is now used by the Municipality of Kos for various events, mainly cultural.
In the late 1920s, about 3,700 Turks lived in Kos city; slightly less than 50% of the population, who were mainly in the west part of the city. Today, the population of the Turkish community in Kos has been estimated at 2,000 people. A village with a significant Turkish population is Platani (Kermentes), near the town of Kos.


== Main sights ==


=== Ancient sites ===
The ancient physician Hippocrates is thought to have been born in Kos, and in the center of the town is the Plane Tree of Hippocrates; a dream temple where the physician is traditionally supposed to have taught. The limbs of the now elderly tree are supported by scaffolding. The small city is also home to the International Hippocratic Foundation of Kos, and the Hippocratic Museum dedicated to him. Near the institute are the ruins of Asklepieion, where Herodicus taught Hippocrates medicine.

The ancient market place of Kos was considered one of the biggest in the ancient world. It was the commercial and commanding centre at the heart of the ancient city. It was organised around a rectangular yard 50 metres (160 ft) wide and 300 metres (980 ft) long. It began in the Northern area and ended south on the central road (Decumanus) which went through the city. The northern side connected to the city wall towards the entrance to the harbour. Here there was a monumental entrance. On the eastern side there were shops. In the first half of the 2nd century BC, the building was extended toward the interior yard. The building was destroyed in an earthquake in 469 AD.
In the southern end of the market, there was a round building with a Roman dome and a workshop which produced pigments including Egyptian Blue. Coins, treasures, and copper statues from Roman times were later uncovered by archaeologists. In the western side excavations led to the findings of rooms with mosaic floors which showed beastfights, a theme popular in Kos.


=== Castles ===

The island has a 14th-century fortress at the entrance to its harbour, erected in 1315 by the Knights Hospitaller, and another from the Byzantine period in Antimachia.


=== Synagogue ===

The synagogue Kahal Shalom of Kos, on 4, Alexandrou Diakou street in the historic city center, was built in 1935. It was designed by architects Armando Bernabiti and Rodolfo Petracco, and was built by the construction company 'De Martis-Sardelli'. The synagogue complex includes the synagogue and the adjacent rabbi's residence, today housing the offices of the organisation 'Hippocrates'. The Jewish community of Kos dates from antiquity. An older synagogue was destroyed in the earthquake of 13 April 1933. Following the deportation of nearly 100 members of the Jewish community on Sunday 23 July 1944, the synagogue was abandoned and later purchased by the Municipality in the 1980s. The synagogue has been used as a cultural center by the Municipality of Kos, for lectures and exhibitions. In 2022 the Municipality of Kos and the Central Board of Jewish Communities, commissioned architect Elias V. Messinas to restore the interior of the synagogue, and make possible a dual use of the building for religious services, and cultural activities.


== People ==
Epicharmus of Kos (6th–5th century BC), comic playwright
Hippocrates (5th century BC), "father of medicine".
Apelles (4th century BC), painter.
Philitas of Cos (4th century BC), poet and scholar.
Ptolemy II Philadelphus (4th century BC) Pharaoh of the Ptolemaic Kingdom
Berossus, who according to Vitruvius's work de Architectura, eventually relocated to the island of Kos, off the coast of Asia Minor, where he established a school of astrology under the patronage of the king of Egypt.
Michael Kefalianos, professional bodybuilder.
Marika Papagika, early 20th-century singer.
Ioannis Sarmas, judge and caretaker Prime Minister of Greece in 2023.
Kostas Skandalidis, former Interior Minister of Greece and close associate of Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou.
Al Campanis, Major League Baseball player and executive.
Stergos Marinos, former professional footballer.
Şükrü Kaya, Turkish politician, who served as Minister of the Interior and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Turkey. He was one of the perpetrators of the Armenian genocide.


== Transport ==
Kos International Airport


== In popular culture ==
Kos is the setting of the wargaming book Swords of Kos Fantasy Campaign Setting, written by Michael O. Varhola with co-authors.
Kos was the main shooting location and setting for Signs of Life (1968 film).


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Coan wine
List of volcanoes in Greece
List of islands of Greece#Dodecanes islands
List of Crusader castles
Disappearance of Ben Needham


== References ==


== Sources ==


== External links ==

 Kos travel guide from Wikivoyage

Holwell Sports Football Club is a football club based in Asfordby Hill, near Melton Mowbray, Leicestershire, England. They are currently members of the Midland League Division One and play at Welby Road.


== History ==
The club was established in 1902 as Holwell Works. They joined the Leicester & District League, and were league champions in 1907–08. After winning the league again the following season, the club moved up to the Leicestershire Senior League. In 1911–12 they won the Leicestershire Senior League title. At the end of the following season the club transferred to the Central Alliance. However, in their first season in the Alliance they finished bottom of the league and resigned.
Holwell subsequently played in the Melton Mowbray & District Amateur League. After winning the league in 1933–34, the club rejoined the re-established Leicestershire Senior League, the league having folded at the end of the 1929–30 season. In 1946 they were placed in the Central Division. An eleventh-place finish in 1947–48 saw them earn a place in Division One for the 1948–49 season. However, the club finished bottom of the table and were relegated to Division Two. Despite only finishing seventh in Division Two in 1949–50, they were promoted back to Division One at the first attempt.
In 1954–55 Holwell were Division One runners-up. They were runners-up again in 1957–58, but after finishing second-from-bottom in 1961–62, the club were relegated to Division Two. This began a period of yo-yoing between the divisions as they were promoted back to Division One at the end of the 1962–63 season, then relegated the following season. The club were promoted back to Division One again in 1965–66, but relegated back to Division Two again two seasons later. In 1976 the club left the league, returning to the Leicester & District League. After finishing as runners-up in 1978–79 they rejoined Division Two of the Senior League.
Holwell were Division Two runners-up in 1981–82, earning promotion to Division One., which was renamed the Premier Division in 1983. They were relegated back to the (renamed) Division One after finishing bottom of the Premier Division in 1983–84, but won Division One at the first attempt to ensure an immediate return to the Premier Division. In 1987–88 the club won the Premier Division title, and at the end of the season were renamed Holwell Sports. Under the new name, they won back-to-back Premier Division titles in 1991–92 and 1992–93. They were runners-up in 2000–01 and 2004–05, and won the League Cup in 2005–06. In 2008 the club were founder members of the East Midlands Counties League.
At the end of the 2017–18 season, Holwell were transferred to Division One of the United Counties League.
Having played in the United Counties League for several years, at the end of the 2025–26 season, Holwell were transferred to Division One of the Midland Football League.


== Honours ==
Leicestershire Senior League
Premier Division champions 1911–12, 1987–88, 1991–92, 1992–93
Division One champions 1984–85
League Cup winners 2005–06
Leicester & District League
Champions 1907–08, 1908–09
Melton Mowbray & District Amateur League
Champions 1933–34
Leicestershire and Rutland Senior Cup
Winners 1954–55, 1956–57, 1957–58


== Records ==
Best FA Cup performance: First qualifying round, 2014–15, 2015–16
Best FA Vase performance: Third round, 2013–14


== See also ==
Holwell Sports F.C. players


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Mount Hawkins is a 9,318-foot (2,840-metre) mountain summit in Alaska, United States.


== Description ==
Mount Hawkins is situated seven miles (11 km) east-northeast of Mount Tom White and 80 miles (129 km) east of Cordova in the Chugach Mountains and Wrangell–St. Elias National Park and Preserve. Topographic relief is significant as the summit rises 3,000 ft (910 m) above the surrounding glaciers in one mile (1.6 km). The mountain's toponym was applied in 1930 by Lawrence Martin of the U.S. Geological Survey to honor Erastus Corning Hawkins (1860–1912), the chief engineer who built the Copper River and Northwestern Railway. The toponym was officially adopted in 1930 by the U.S. Board on Geographic Names. The first ascent of the remote summit was made on April 13, 2000, by Paul Claus, Jay Claus, and Ruedi Hornberger.


== Climate ==

Based on the Köppen climate classification, Mount Hawkins is located in a tundra climate zone with cold, snowy winters, and cool summers. Weather systems coming off the Gulf of Alaska are forced upwards by the Chugach Mountains (orographic lift), causing heavy precipitation in the form of rainfall and snowfall. Winter temperatures can drop below 0 °F with wind chill factors below −20 °F. This climate supports massive glaciers and icefields surrounding this peak. The months May through June offer the most favorable weather for viewing or climbing Mount Hawkins.


== See also ==
List of mountain peaks of Alaska
Geography of Alaska


== Notes ==
Published elevations for Mount Hawkins vary. The first elevation published by the U.S. Board on Geographic Names in 1930 estimated it at 10,000 feet. The USGS places the toponym at the 9,318-ft east peak. Some websites for mountain climbers list the elevation as 10,295 feet, and 10,247 feet.


== References ==


== External links ==
Mount Hawkins: weather
Mount Hawkins (photo): alaska.edu
Mount Hawkins (photo): alaska.edu

Degna Djan was an emperor of the Kingdom of Aksum (9th or 10th century). Paul B. Henze states that his throne name was "'Anbasa Wedem", which tradition states was his oldest son's name. His younger son was Dil Na'od.
E. A. Wallis Budge provides an account of the most familiar tradition about Degna Djan on his deathbed, that he asked Abuna Peter to decide which of his two sons should succeed him. Abuna Peter selected Dil Na'od. Upset with the decision, 'Anbasa Wedem is said to have bribed an Egyptian monk Mennas to go to Alexandria and convince the Patriarch of Alexandria to remove Abuna Peter so 'Anbasa Wedem could claim the throne. Mennas returned with forged papers that made him Abuna, and he consecrated 'Anbasa Wedem as king. Dil Na'od's supporters thereupon collected troops and deposed 'Anasa Wedem upon learning the truth. Patriarch Cosmas excommunicated Mennas, but Mennas had died by that time.
Taddesse Tamrat repeats traditions that Degna Djan both led military expeditions as far south as Ennarea, and commanded missionary activities in the highlands of Angot and the later province of Amhara. Because the Gadla of Tekle Haymanot states that Degna Djan lived 18 generations, or 400–600 years, before the saint (c. 1215), "this brings Digna-Jan to the first half of the ninth century."
Taddesse Tamrat also mentions a tradition that makes him, not his son Dil Na'od, the last king of Axum. One tradition states Degnan Djan perished in one of his southern campaigns.


== References ==

An arabber (or a-rabber) also A-rab )is a street vendor (hawker) selling fruits and vegetables from a colorful, horse-drawn cart. Once a common sight in American East Coast cities, only a handful of arabbers still walk the streets of Baltimore. They rely on street cries to attract the attention of their customers.


== Arabbing ==

The term arabber is believed to derive from the 19th century slang term "street Arabs". Arabbing began in the early 19th century when access to ships and stables made it an accessible form of entrepreneurship. African American men entered the trade following the Civil War.  Brightly painted and artfully arranged, arabber carts became a common sight on the streets of Baltimore. To alert city dwellers to their arrival, arabbers developed distinctive calls:

Holler, holler, holler, till my throat get sore.
If it wasn't for the pretty girls, I wouldn't have to holler no more.
I say, Watermelon! Watermelon!
Got 'em red to the rind, lady.

During World War II, factory jobs opened to white laborers, leaving arabbing an almost entirely African-American vocation. By then, arabbing was already in decline, threatened by the expansion of supermarkets and the disappearance of public stables. In the later 20th century, arabbers faced additional challenges from city zoning and vending regulations, and from animal rights advocates concerned about the health and welfare of the horses.
In 1994, the Arabber Preservation Society was founded to help bring Baltimore's Retreat Street stable, which had been condemned, up to city building codes. The society continues to renovate and promote the preservation of the stables serving the remaining arabbers, who number fewer than a dozen. Besides providing a nostalgic glimpse of the past, arabbers still serve a practical purpose, bringing fresh produce and other goods to urban neighborhoods that are underserved by grocery stores.
Because arabbers generally do not have complete horse-care knowledge, they have formed a working connection with Pennsylvania Old Order Mennonites. The latter, with their rural, horse-and-carriage life-style provide the arabbers with know-how and opportunities to purchase horses.


== In popular culture ==
The documentary We Are Arabbers (2004), by filmmakers Scott Kecken and Joy Lusco Kecken, profiles contemporary arabbers.
Season 1 of the television series Homicide: Life on the Street, set in Baltimore, features a plotline about an arabber suspected of murdering a little girl. On Season 4, episode 9, an arabber is killed as part of a sniper attack. (The series is based on a book by David Simon, who also created The Wire.)
Arabbers appear in seasons 1, 4, and 5 of the television series The Wire, also set in Baltimore, partly written by the documentary filmmaker Joy Lusco Kecken, who also wrote for Homicide: Life on the Street.
On the May 5, 2009 episode of the television show Ace of Cakes, reference was made to an "arabber" carrying a customer around Baltimore in a coffin, as part of a living funeral.


== See also ==
Costermonger, a street seller of fruits and vegetables
Greengrocer, a shop-based seller of fruits and vegetables
Hawker (trade), a street vendor
Peddler, a travelling seller of goods


== References ==


== Further reading ==
"Central Pa. Mennonites help Baltimore merchants with their horses". PennLive. Associated Press. 4 September 2018. Retrieved 4 September 2018.
Bullock, Scott G. [Economic Liberty]. "Baltimore: No Harbor for Entrepreneurs". taxi-library.org. Institute for Justice. Retrieved May 30, 2009.
Finn, Catherine (May 30, 2009). "The Wanderers' Songs". Preservation Online.


== External links ==

"Arabber". BaltimoreMD.com. Arabber Preservation Society. Archived from the original on 2012-06-04. Retrieved 2012-07-03.

Krzemieniewo [kʂɛmjɛˈɲɛvɔ] is a village in Leszno County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Krzemieniewo.


== References ==

The Atagoyama Kofun (愛宕山古墳) is a kofun burial mound located in the city of Gyōda, Saitama Prefecture, in the Kantō region of Japan. The tumulus was designated a National Historic Site in 1938 and re-designated as a Special National Historic Site of Japan in 2020 as part of the Sakitama Kofun Cluster.


== Overview ==
The Atagoyama Kofun has a total length of 53 meters, and is the smallest tumulus in the Saitama Kofun Cluster. It is a zenpō-kōen-fun (前方後円墳), which is shaped like a keyhole, having one square end and one circular end, when viewed from above. As with the other keyhole-shaped tumuli in this cluster, the Atagoyama Kofun had a rectangular double moat. A large number of haniwa have been excavated from this tumulus, including haniwa shaped as cylinders, "morning-glory", houses, horses, men with swords, and other male figures. The tumulus dates from the middle of the 6th century AD. The burial chamber has not been excavated as the mound was in very poor repair and was in danger of collapsing. Its name comes from an Atago Shrine which was once located on the tumulus.
The Atagoyama Kofun is near the parking lot to the Sakitama Kofun archaeological park, and is adjacent  to the Gyōda Futagoyama Kofun, the largest kofun  in the cluster.

Overall length
53 meters
Posterior circular portion
30 meter diameter x 3.4 meter high
Anterior rectangular portion
30 meters wide x 3.3 meters high


== See also ==
List of Historic Sites of Japan (Saitama)


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Atagoyama Kofun (Gyoda) at Wikimedia Commons

Gyoda city home page (in Japanese)
Museum of the Sakitama Ancient Burial Mounds (in Japanese)

Darren Anthony Carter (born 18 December 1983) is an English football coach and former professional player. Primarily a central midfielder, Carter made more than 300 appearances in the Premier League and Football League over a 14-year career, and then spent a further six seasons playing in the National League. He was most recently head coach of FA Women's Championship club Birmingham City Women.
An England under-19 and under-20 international, Carter began his career with Birmingham City, and came to prominence at the age of 18 when his penalty in the 2002 play-off final clinched the club's promotion to the Premier League. He was loaned to Sunderland in winter 2004, before he was sold to West Bromwich Albion for £1.5 million in July 2005. In August 2007, he joined Preston North End for a fee of up to £1.25 million. Loaned to Millwall in the 2010–11 season, he later had to spend the 2011–12 season without a club after tearing a groin muscle during a trial match. He returned to action in the 2012–13 campaign with Cheltenham Town, and then spent two seasons with Northampton Town. He spent the next two seasons with Forest Green Rovers of the National League and a further four with Solihull Moors.
While with Solihull Moors, he managed their youth academy and acted as a development coach, and spent time as first-team coach of West Bromwich Albion Women, before taking up the post of interim head coach of FA WSL club Birmingham City Women in November 2021. He was upgraded to permanent head coach at the end of May 2022, and left the club towards the end of the 2023–24 season.


== Club career ==


=== Birmingham City ===
Carter was born in Solihull, West Midlands. He made his first-team debut for Birmingham City in the First Division at the age of 18 in a 1–0 defeat to local rivals West Bromwich Albion at The Hawthorns on 29 January 2002. He scored his first goal in senior football on 10 April, helping the Blues to secure a play-off spot with a 3–1 victory over Crewe Alexandra at St Andrew's. On 12 May, he made himself a Birmingham City hero when he scored the decisive penalty in the shoot-out to win the play-off final against Norwich City at the Millennium Stadium. The match had finished 1–1 after extra time.
Carter played only 12 Premier League matches in the 2002–03 season, with half of these appearances coming before mid-October. His first team opportunities were even more restricted in the 2003–04 campaign, as he featured in just five Premier League matches. Despite this, he signed a three-and-a-half-year contract in January 2004 after 20 months of negotiations. In March 2004 he was scheduled to go out on loan to Rotherham United before injuries and suspensions at Birmingham persuaded manager Steve Bruce to put an end to the deal.
He was loaned to Sunderland in September 2004. Carter scored on his debut, in a 3–1 victory over Preston North End at the Stadium of Light on 18 September. He made nine further appearances for the club before being recalled by Birmingham on 6 December. This gave his Birmingham career the boost it needed, and he was seen as a vital member of the squad until his July 2005 transfer to West Bromwich Albion for £1.5 million. At the end of the 2004–05 season, Sunderland won promotion to the Premier League as champions of the Championship.


=== West Bromwich Albion ===
Carter made his West Bromwich Albion debut at The Hawthorns in a 3–2 defeat to his former club Birmingham on 27 August 2005. He initially struggled to make the bench, and on 11 October manager Bryan Robson said that he "is still very much in my thoughts at this time". He scored his first goal for the club four days later with a 20-yard (18 m) volley in a 2–1 victory over Arsenal; the strike won him the club's Goal-of-the-Season Award. The "Baggies" were relegated at the end of the 2005–06 season, and Carter was singled out for booing by the home crowd.
He made 33 appearances in the Championship in the 2006–07 season, and was used as a substitute in the play-off final defeat to Derby County at Wembley Stadium, replacing Zoltán Gera on 71 minutes.


=== Preston North End ===
After manager Tony Mowbray confirmed that Carter could not be guaranteed first-team football at West Bromwich Albion, he signed a four-year deal with Preston North End, managed by Paul Simpson. The move was completed on 9 August 2007, for an initial £750,000 fee with potential to rise to £1.25m, and the contract included a 20% sell-on clause. Carter made his Preston debut in a 0–0 draw with Norwich City at Deepdale two days later, and his performance earned him a place in the Championship Team of the Week. In February 2008, Carter scored a 93rd-minute own goal for Portsmouth to knock Preston out of the FA Cup at the fifth round stage. He finished the 2007–08 campaign with 43 appearances.
Manager Alan Irvine started Carter in just eight matches in the following season, and the midfielder later admitted the season was "nothing short of a disaster for me personally". Preston reached the play-off semi-finals, but lost 2–1 on aggregate to Sheffield United. Carter was transfer-listed at the end of the 2009–10 season after complaining of a lack of first-team opportunities under new manager Darren Ferguson.
In July 2010 he spent a week on trial with Millwall, but a proposed six-month loan move fell through. He then joined Southampton on trial. On 4 August, he joined Kenny Jackett's Millwall on a three-month loan. He made his debut on the opening day of the new season, and was sent off for two bookable offences as his new club won 3–0 away at Bristol City. The loan deal was extended to January. He made five starts and six substitute appearances for the Lions.
On his return from loan, Carter went straight into Preston's starting eleven under new manager Phil Brown. He opened the scoring in the FA Cup-tie against Nottingham Forest, his first match for Preston for nine months; Forest won 2–1. After Preston were relegated to League One and Carter's contract expired at the end of the 2010–11 season, he trained with the club during July, but no terms were agreed on a new deal.
Carter began training with former club Birmingham City in August in the hope of earning a contract, but after no deal was forthcoming he had a trial in October with fellow Championship club Brighton & Hove Albion, but manager Gus Poyet told him he was looking for a more physical type of midfielder. While playing for Nottingham Forest reserves in November as part of another trial, Carter tore a groin muscle, requiring surgery and a three-month recovery period. Once he regained fitness towards the end of the 2011–12 season, he played for Walsall's reserves, and returned to Birmingham City for pre-season training.


=== Cheltenham Town ===
In August 2012, Carter signed a six-month contract with League Two club Cheltenham Town. He re-signed with the "Robins" in January, to keep him at Whaddon Road until the end of the 2012–13 season. Cheltenham reached the play-off semi-finals, where they were beaten by Northampton Town; Carter was an unused substitute in both legs. In May 2013, he was released by Cheltenham after manager Mark Yates admitted that he could not meet the player's wage demands. Carter denied this was the case, saying no contract negotiations took place and that he was left out of the crucial end-of-season run-in without any explanation.


=== Northampton Town ===

Carter signed a two-year contract with Northampton Town in July 2013. The club were still in League Two, having lost the play-off final to Bradford City. In his competitive debut for Northampton, at York City in the opening match of the campaign, he was sent off for a second bookable offence with 18 minutes to play, and his team lost 1–0 thanks to a last-minute goal. After two seasons at the club, and failing to hold down a first team place in 2014–15, Carter was released by manager Chris Wilder.


=== Forest Green Rovers ===
On 22 September 2015, Carter signed for National League leaders Forest Green Rovers on a free transfer for the remainder of the season. He made his debut against his former club, second-placed Cheltenham Town, that same evening; the match ended as a 2–2 draw. He continued in the starting eleven, and on his fourth appearance, his shot from the edge of the penalty area opened the scoring in the 3–0 win away to Aldershot Town. He scored his second goal for the club in an FA Cup first round away win over Football League club AFC Wimbledon on 7 November.
He helped Forest Green reach the 2016 National League play-off final at Wembley Stadium on 15 May 2016, and played the full 90 minutes in a 3–1 loss to Grimsby Town that denied the club a place in the Football League. The following day, newly appointed manager Mark Cooper offered him a new contract, of one year, which he accepted.
He scored his first goal of the 2016–17 National League season on 27 August 2016 in a 4–1 win away to Maidstone United. He made 29 league appearances, scoring 4 goals, as Forest Green finished in the play-off positions. On 3 May 2017 – after the end of the regular season but before the play-offs – the club confirmed that Carter's contract had been terminated by mutual consent.


=== Solihull Moors ===
On 28 June 2017, Carter signed for National League club Solihull Moors on a free transfer. He went into the campaign "with the attitude that I am going to play 40-odd games", and proceeded to do so. He was appointed captain, and missed only one match over the season as the team finished in the lower half of mid-table. Ahead of the 2018–19 season, he signed a one-year playing contract and was appointed manager of the club's youth academy. He remained a regular in the team, playing in 44 of the 46 league matches as Moors finished second, three points behind Leyton Orient, and lost to AFC Fylde in the play-off semi-final. His consistency of performance earned him a place in the National League Team of the Season alongside Moors team-mate Jamey Osborne. On 3 June 2021, it was announced that Carter had left the club.


== International career ==
Carter represented the England under-20 team at the 2003 FIFA World Youth Championship, and was capped 11 times in all at that level. In one match he was sent off for a foul on Portugal's Cristiano Ronaldo.


== Style of play ==
Speaking in July 2005, Bryan Robson stated that Carter "has very good stamina and is very much a box-to-box player who can play in the centre of midfield or wide on the left. He is also left footed which gives us good balance in the squad, he has a good presence".


== Coaching career ==
While a player with Solihull Moors, he managed the club's academy, and also acted as a youth development coach. He spent time in the early part of the 2021–22 season as first-team coach of West Bromwich Albion Women, before taking on the role of interim head coach of FA WSL club Birmingham City Women on 21 November 2021 following the dismissal of Scott Booth. After being unable to avoid relegation to the FA Women's Championship, his role as head coach became permanent on 30 May 2022 after a two-year deal was signed. The team fell just one point short of promotion in 2022–23, and Carter left the club by mutual consent in April 2024.


== Career statistics ==


== Honours ==
Birmingham City

Football League First Division play-offs: 2002
Individual

National League Team of the Season: 2018–19


== References ==


== External links ==

Profile Archived 13 July 2019 at the Wayback Machine at the Solihull Moors F.C. website
Darren Carter at Soccerbase

Mondli Makhanya is a South African journalist who has been editor-in-chief of City Press since 2016. He was formerly the editor of the Mail & Guardian from 2002 to 2003, the editor of the Sunday Times from 2004 to 2010, and the editor-in-chief at the Times Media Group from 2010 to 2013. He is also a former chairperson of the South African National Editors' Forum. He is well known for his political commentary, currently published in City Press columns.


== Family ==
Makhanya is the son of South African activist and poet Thoko Remigia Makhanya.


== Career ==
Makhanya began his career as a journalist at the Weekly Mail in 1990. He interned at Newsweek in New York and then returned to the Weekly Mail, where he was head of the Cape Town bureau from 1994. In 1995, he moved to the Star, where he spent four years as a political reporter and deputy news editor before he was appointed associate editor of the Sunday World, a newly launched publication under Fred Khumalo's editorship, in 1999. As the Sunday World quickly became a tabloid, Makhanya left in 2000 to join the Sunday Times as a political editor; he later became the paper's deputy managing editor for politics and policy.


=== Mail & Guardian: 2002–2003 ===
On 1 October 2002, Makhanya began a new position as editor of the Mail & Guardian, succeeding Howard Barrell. However, a little over a year into his tenure, the newspaper announced that he had resigned in order to return to the Sunday Times as editor, a position from which Mathatha Tsedu had recently been fired. After he had resigned from the paper, the Mail & Guardian named him as one of three journalists who were expected to "emerge as key figures in our public life over the next decade", saying, "Few South African editors enjoy as much respect from their peers and political movers and shakers". He was succeeded at the Mail & Guardian by Ferial Haffajee.


=== Times Media: 2004–2013 ===
Makhanya's appointment at the Sunday Times was effective from 1 February 2004. He remained in the position for six years, during which time the paper's readership grew from 3.2 million to almost four million. During this period, in 2006, he was named as one of the World Economic Forum's Young Global Leaders. As editor, he printed a notorious satirical cartoon by Zapiro, the Rape of Lady Justice, in 2008; he and Zapiro were both named in the resulting defamation lawsuit lodged by former Deputy President Jacob Zuma, the subject of cartoon. He also printed a highly controversial column by David Bullard and then invited further controversy by firing Bullard.
In March 2010, it was announced that Ray Hartley would replace Makhanya as Sunday Times editor and that he in turn would become editor-in-chief of all Avusa Media newspapers. Although this was presented as a promotion, Tawana Kupe observed that Makhanya's new role appeared relatively narrow and speculated that Makhanya, "at a young age and in his prime as an editor, has been retired by being kicked upstairs". Makhanya remained in the position after Avusa changed ownership and became the Times Media Group, but he resigned in early 2013 to write a book about South African politics. During his time at Avusa, he also served a term as chairperson of the South African National Editors' Forum.


=== City Press: 2016–present ===
Makhanya became editor-in-chief of City Press with effect from 1 August 2016.


== Views and controversies ==


=== Mbeki and the Arms Deal ===
As a columnist, Makhanya was an outspoken critic of the 1999 Arms Deal and frequently clashed with the government and supporters of former President Thabo Mbeki.


=== Buthelezi and the IFP ===
Makhanya has also been openly critical of Mangosuthu Buthelezi since the early 1990s, during South Africa's democratic transition; at that time, supporters of Buthelezi's Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) were engaged in a low-intensity civil conflict with supporters of the rival African National Congress in the PWV and KwaZulu-Natal regions. In 2010, IFP politician Mario Ambrosini, wrote to the Sunday Times in 2010 to demand that the paper should, for the sake of its credibility, "bar [Makhanya] from writing about Buthelezi", given the volume of Makhanya's "preposterous attacks". In August 2022, City Press published a particularly energetic column, entitled "Hail the mass murderer", in which Makhanya wrote of Buthelezi:It boggles the mind how a nation that claims to be appalled at South Africa’s high levels of violent crime can celebrate a mass murderer who contributed so much to the culture of violence that prevails today; how a people that is so fixated on the sins of the past can so casually overlook the sins of a man who was responsible for so much of the killing that happened in the name of apartheid... It is hoped that the pain that still flows in many families and communities that fell victim to Buthelezi and the IFP’s many raids, assassinations and massacres will haunt those who want to sanitise history and salute the mass murderer.In response to the column, the IFP organised a protest march on City Press's Johannesburg offices, with IFP president Velenkosini Hlabisa expressing the IFP's "de-satisfaction about the way Mr Mondli Makhanya has been behaving for many years". SANEF condemned the protest as an attempt to intimidate a journalist. In the same week, IFP spokesman and parliamentarian Mkhuleko Hlengwa told Eusebius McKaiser of the Sunday Times that Makhanya was incapable of writing "objectively" about Buthelezi because he was himself implicated in the political violence of the 1990s: pressed for details, Hlengwa said, without providing evidence, that Makhanya had been involved in killing IFP members. Makhanya said the claim was "balderdash".
A similar claim had been made in June 2022 by IFP president Hlabisa, who had said that Makhanya "has a history of hating [the] IFP" and was a "self-confessed murderer": according to Hlabisa, Makhanya had written a column in the Weekly Mail in 1990, under the pseudonym Oscar Gumede, in which he "confessed that he used to rejoice when he participated in the killing of IFP members by setting alight their houses". On that occasion, Makhanya had said that he did not dispute that he had written under a pseudonym, but said, "In that article, I wrote about the violence in KwaZulu-Natal, and what they are trying to do now is to turn things around and say that I have murdered a person. I have said nothing about me murdering anyone. I merely spoke of how the violence happened then".

Among Makhanya's criticisms of Buthelezi was that he had exploited Zulu identity for narrow political purposes. On similar grounds, he was also critical of Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini, who he claimed had enabled the IFP's Zulu nationalism. When Zwelithini died in March 2021, Makhanya's column read: Zwelithini should be remembered for what his most prominent role was in our history: a useful idiot in the hands of the apartheid government, whose willingness to lend his powerful position to the service of that regime cost tens of thousands of lives.


== References ==


== External links ==
Columns at City Press
Mondli Makhanya at the Muck Rack journalist directory

Jack Clemons (November 9, 1943 – May 29, 2024) was an aerospace engineer and air and space industry professional.  He was a lead engineer on NASA's Apollo and Space Shuttle Programs, and later an aerospace company executive. He appeared as himself in the "Command Module" episode of the 2008 Discovery Science Channel six-part documentary Moon Machines. He also appeared as himself in the 2019 National Geographic Channel documentary Apollo: Back to the Moon.  Following retirement from the aerospace industry, Clemons was a consultant and a professional writer as well as a speaker and presenter on NASA's space programs.


== Career ==
Jack received his bachelor's and master's degrees in Aerospace Engineering from the University of Florida.  During the Apollo Moon Program he was a lead engineer at TRW Systems Group in Houston, Texas, supporting operations at NASA's Manned Spacecraft Center (now the Johnson Space Center).  He developed procedures allowing astronauts to monitor the Apollo Command Module Onboard Guidance and Navigation Computer during atmospheric reentry, and to control the reentry manually should they need to override the computer.  He provided real-time reentry support during missions Apollo 9 through Apollo 14, including NASA Mission Control Center backroom support during the extended five-minute reentry blackout period on Apollo 13.
Following Apollo, at IBM Federal Systems in Houston, he was the overall program manager for the development of the onboard software for NASA's Space Shuttle.  Driven by a NASA requirement for "error-free" code, Shuttle Flight Software became the first program rated at CMM Level 5, the highest rating of the Software Engineering Institute's Capability Maturity Model.  As a member of the IBM team, Jack worked early on with Shuttle astronauts to design the onboard computer displays, and later provided problem analysis and flight support during the first six Space Shuttle missions.
In the 1990s and 2000s, Clemons was Senior Vice President of Engineering at Lockheed Martin Air Traffic Control Company in Rockville, Maryland.  His organization designed and implemented the hardware and software required to support the modernization of the FAA's nationwide Air Traffic Control computer systems, and the United Kingdom's London Area Air Traffic Control Centre, as well as systems in Scotland, Eastern Europe, South America, and New Zealand.
Following retirement from Lockheed Martin, Clemons was an aerospace consultant as well as a speaker and presenter on NASA's space programs. His non-fiction book Safely to Earth: The Men and Women Who Brought the Astronauts Home, a memoir of his time on NASA's Apollo and Space Shuttle programs, was published by University Press of Florida in September 2018.
As a professional writer Clemons' works of fiction earned him an Established Artist Fellowship Grant for Literary Fiction by the Delaware Division of the Arts and membership in the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America. His hidden history book The Outliers, a Wild West novel set on the East Coast, was published by Secant Publishing of Salisbury, MD in 2021.


== References ==


== External links ==
Moon Machines
Safely to Earth
Apollo: Back To The Moon
Outliers

Mohammed Hamoud Al-Fajji (Arabic: محمد حمود الفجي; 1940 – 2 June 2025) was a Kuwaiti politician and businessman who was an independent, he served in the National Assembly from 2003 to 2006.
Al-Fajji died on 2 June 2025, at the age of 85.


== References ==

Clicks & Cuts, Vol. 3 is the third volume in the Clicks & Cuts Series released by Mille Plateaux in 2002. The double album was released as an attempt to investigate and define the glitch music aesthetic in its early 2000s popularity.


== Track listing ==


== Personnel ==
Peter Fey - mastering


== See also ==
Mille Plateaux (Label)
Glitch music
Minimal techno
Intelligent dance music
Microhouse


== External links ==
Official label website
Article on Clicks + Cuts Compilation at Salon.com

James I may refer to:


== People ==
James I of Aragon (1208–1276)
James I of Sicily or James II of Aragon (1267–1327)
James I, Count of La Marche (1319–1362), Count of Ponthieu
James I, Count of Urgell (1321–1347)
James I of Cyprus (1334–1398), also titular king of Armenia and Jerusalem
James I of Scotland (1394–1437)
James VI and I (1566–1625), King of Scotland (r. 1567–1625), and also King of England and Ireland (r. 1603–1625)
James Harden-Hickey (1854–1898), self-declared Prince James I of Trinidad


== Other uses ==
James 1, the first chapter of the Epistle of James
James I Land, Spitsbergen, Svalbard


== See also ==

James (disambiguation)
James II (disambiguation)
James III (disambiguation)
James IV
James V

Glyptonotus antarcticus is a benthic marine isopod crustacean in the suborder Valvifera. This relatively large isopod is found in the Southern Ocean around Antarctica. It was first described by James Eights in 1852 and the type locality is the South Shetland Islands.


== Description ==
Glyptonotus antarcticus has a typical maximum length of 9 cm (3.5 in), though may reach 20 cm (8 in) in rare cases; this is large for an isopod, most of which are between 0.5 and 1.5 cm (0.2–0.6 in) in length. Glyptonotus antarcticus has only five ommatidia, which is unusual for crustaceans and insects. These are clustered into two pairs of compound eyes, a large pair on the dorsal surface and a smaller pair on the ventral surface. It is thought that the latter are useful when the animal is swimming, which it does in an upside-down position. The whole surface of the animal is covered in minute cuticular outgrowths of feathery "hairs" and knobbly "scales", with the exception of the eyes, certain mouthparts, and feet. It is thought that these may help to prevent attachment of Foraminifera, larval organisms, and other encrusting epibionts on their body surface.
A 2005 genetic study suggested that Glyptonotus antarcticus may in fact represent several distinct species, otherwise known as a species complex.


== Distribution and habitat ==
Glyptonotus antarcticus is native to the Southern Ocean around Antarctica, where it occurs in large numbers. It lives on the seabed at depths ranging from the intertidal zone down to more than 600 m (2,000 ft).


== Biology ==
Glyptonotus antarcticus is a carnivore and scavenger and is often caught in baited traps on the seabed. It is an opportunistic predator with a mixed diet which includes a high proportion of echinoderms, but it is also cannibalistic. Food supply is likely to be fairly constant as the species breeds at any time of year. Females can breed when at least 7.5 cm (3 in) long. The eggs and young are brooded for an extended period —more than 1½ years— in the female's marsupium where they are nourished by a maternal secretion. As typical of Antarctic isopods, there is no pelagic larval stage.


== Research ==
Given its abundance and the fact that it is relatively easy to keep in aquaria, Glyptonotus antarcticus has become an important model organism used as a research object in ecological, biochemical and physiological studies.


== References ==

Cerodrillia brunnea is a species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusc in the family Drilliidae.


== Description ==
The length of the shell varies between 4.5 mm and 7 mm.


== Distribution ==
This marine species occurs in the Caribbean Sea off Panama.


== References ==

Fallon, P.J. (2016). "Taxonomic review of tropical western Atlantic shallow water Drilliidae (Mollusca: Gastropoda: Conoidea) including descriptions of 100 new species". Zootaxa. 4090 (1): 1–363.


== External links ==
"Cerodrillia brunnea". Gastropods.com. Retrieved 15 January 2019.

Sarah Jacobson (August 25, 1971 – February 13, 2004) was an American film director, screenwriter, and producer.


== Early life ==
Jacobson was born in Connecticut, moved to New Jersey in 1975, then to Edina, Minnesota in 1982. She graduated with honors from Edina High School in Edina, Minnesota in 1989. She attended Bard College before transferring to the San Francisco Art Institute in 1991 to study film. While attending SFAI with George Kuchar as her mentor, Jacobson began making I Was a Teenage Serial Killer.


== Career ==
Jacobson's two most well-known works are I Was a Teenage Serial Killer and Mary Jane's Not a Virgin Anymore. Both were well received at film festivals across North America such as the New York Underground Film Festival, the Chicago Underground Film Festival, and Sundance. I Was a Teenage Serial Killer featured songs by Heavens to Betsy. She was listed in Spin as one of the "Top Influences on Girl Culture". Film Threat, in its Film Threat Video Guide, labeled it as one of the "25 Underground Films You Must See".
Also outspoken in their praise were film critic Roger Ebert, filmmaker Allison Anders, and Kim Gordon of Sonic Youth. Ed Halter, writing in the Village Voice, considered I Was A Teenage Serial Killer "a key film of that decade's angrily subversive underground cinema".
Jacobson's films were reviewed in such publications such as The New York Times,  The Village Voice, Sight and Sound, and the Los Angeles Times. Clippings from Jacobson's personal papers, which are housed at New York University Fales Library and Special Collections, include interviews of her as well as reviews and commentary on her work from Spin, Bust, Bitch magazine, and Film Threat, among others.
Her low-budget feature film Mary Jane's Not a Virgin Anymore and the grassroots manner in which Jacobson promoted it won her recognition in her specific field. Mary Jane's Not a Virgin Anymore starred Lisa Gerstein and Beth Allen of the band The Loudmouths, whose music—along with that of Babes In Toyland and Mudhoney—is featured in the film. Jello Biafra also appears in a cameo role. Following the release of this film, Jacobson directed videos for the bands Man or Astroman and Fluffy.
With the success of her films, Jacobson was an important champion of the DIY approach to filmmaking and wrote for several publications, including Punk Planet, Grand Royal, San Francisco Bay Guardian, and Indiewire on the topic. She was a contributor to the film zine Joanie4Jackie, a project created by Miranda July to showcase women's independently made and DIY films. Jacobson was also a participant in DiY Fest, a do-it-yourself traveling film festival.
Jacobson was the author of the progressive S.T.I.G.M.A. Manifesto (Sisters Together in Girlie Movie-Making Action).
"Everyone talks about living in the post #MeToo era", said Jacobson's friend Jake Fogelnest. "Here was a woman who made films in the '90s; who was screaming about that stuff in her work and in her life before it became a fashion accessory button at a Hollywood awards ceremony".
Jacobson wrote an unproduced feature-length script titled Sleaze about “an all-girl band on tour in Missoula, Mont., who hook up with the town geek.”


== Death ==
Jacobson died from endometrial cancer in New York City on February 13, 2004, aged 32.


== Legacy ==
After her death, Marc Savlov wrote in The Austin Chronicle, "There's no doubt in the minds of anyone ... that she greatly helped stoke the flames of the guerilla and indie filmmaking movement while becoming a voice for grrrl-positive cineastes everywhere".
According to the New York Press, Jacobson is reputed to be the "Queen of Underground Cinema".
The Sarah Jacobson Film Grant was set up by Sarah’s longtime friend and collaborator filmmaker Sam Green and annually awards grants to young female and gender-nonconforming directors. The Sarah Jacobson Papers are located in the Fales Library at New York University.
A compilation of Jacobson's films was released on DVD and Blu-ray by the American Genre Film Archive on September 17, 2019.


== Filmography ==
Sweet Miss: The Disco Years (1988)
Road Movie (Or - What I Learned In A Buick Station Wagon) (1991)
I Was a Teenage Serial Killer (1993)
"Sferic Waves" - Man or Astro-man? (music video) (1996)
Technicolor-Yawn-Fluffy (1996)
Mary Jane's Not a Virgin Anymore (1996)
The Making of Ladies and Gentlemen, the Fabulous Stains (2000)
Bra Shopping (2002)
High School Reunion (2003)
True Love Mohawk


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Dixon, Wheeler Winston. The Second Century of Cinema: The Past and Future of the Moving Image (The Suny Series, Cultural Studies in Cinema/Video). State University of New York Press March 2000 ISBN 0-7914-4515-1


== External links ==
Sarah Jacobson at IMDb
The Sarah Jacobson Film Grant at The Free History Project
The Sarah G. Jacobson Papers at Fales Library and Special Collections at New York University

The 1974–75 Eintracht Frankfurt season was the 75th season in the club's football history. In 1974–75 the club played in the Bundesliga, the top tier of German football. It was the club's 12th season in the Bundesliga.
Within the season Eintracht won DFB Cup twice. The first time it was the 1973–74 campaign. That cup final was held in the beginning of season because of the 1974 World Cup in West Germany. The club repeated the cup victory and won the trophy at the end of the season. It was the first and second cup victory respectively.


== Matches ==


=== Legend ===
  Win
  Draw
  Loss
  Postponed


=== Friendlies ===


=== Bundesliga ===


==== League fixtures and results ====


==== League table ====


=== DFB-Pokal ===


==== 1973–74 ====


===== Final =====


==== 1974–75 ====


===== Final =====


=== European Cup Winners' Cup ===


== Squad ==


=== Squad and statistics ===


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Sources ==


== External links ==
Official English Eintracht website Archived 2 October 2017 at the Wayback Machine
German archive site
1974–75 Bundesliga season at Fussballdaten.de (in German)

Manimegalai is an Indian television presenter and video jockey who is working in Tamil television industry. Since 2010, she has regularly been a host for shows on Sun Network before joining Star Vijay in 2019.
She became widely recognised for her participation as a comali in Cooku with Comali along with hosting programs on Vijay TV.


== Personal life ==
Manimegalai was born in Tiruppur district, Tamil Nadu to businessman Ramaayyappan and Jothimani. She has a younger sibling, Gunamani, who is a Visual Communications graduate. Until class 3, Manimegalai studied in Coimbatore, and then moved to Chennai with her family and continued her schooling at Shanthosh Vidyala Matriculation School. She completed her MBA(dual) in HR & Finance from SRM university (Vadapalani Campus).
While at college she started performing as a video jockey on Sun Music. She met assistant choreographer Hussain Shaik Kadhar in 2017, and the couple got married the same year.


== Career ==


=== Television ===
Manimegalai debuted as a Video Jockey on 30 December 2009 at the age of 17 and hosted her first program called Super Hits on Sun Music. She then hosted live shows and reality shows on Sun Music, namely Franka Sollata, Black, Kollywood Diaries, etc.

 
She rose to fame as a television anchor after hosting several live shows and celebrity interviews.
In 2016, Manimegalai was awarded the Best Anchor by the World Human Integration Council. She received the award from the then governor of Tamil Nadu Dr.K.Rosaiah. She was nicknamed Anchor Superstar by her fans.
She left Sun Network in January 2019 after working there for 9 years to participate in a reality show named Mr. And Mrs. Chinnathirai along with her husband on Vijay Television.
Manimegalai and Hussain were awarded the 2nd runner up and were appreciated for their finale performance in Mr. and Mrs. Chinnathirai. After which, she hosted some special shows and a reality show on Vijay Television. She also participated in the cooking reality show Cooku with Comali as a Comali for three seasons. Later, in season 5, she co-hosted the program alongside Rakshan.
Manimegalai quit as the host of Cooku with Comali following a disagreement with a, Priyanka Deshpande.
In 2025, Manimegalai began her journey with Zee Tamil and became a co-host for Dance Jodi Dance Reloaded season 3.


=== Public shows/events ===
Manimegalai also host other events like college cultural, audio launches and award functions. She hosted her first audio launch of the movie Tik Tik Tik in Jan 2018, and continued hosting numerous other audio launches and success meets of Kollywood movies, including '96 success meet. 
She also participates in comedy debate talk shows. Her first debate talk show was on 31 May 2019.


=== Acting ===
Manimegalai was initially chosen for the serial Bharathi Kannamma by director Praveen Bennet for the role of Venba (played by Farina) which she turned down. On request by the director, she accepted to make a single shot appearance confronting the male lead's mother character.


=== YouTube ===
Manimegalai and Hussain started the YouTube channel Hussain Manimegalai on 4 June 2020.  A short clip from one of the videos of Hussain Manimegalai channel was posted on YouTube India's social media handles.
Hussain Manimegalai YouTube channel had gained over a million subscribers and over 100 million views in total within a year of its start.


== Shows ==


=== Selected television ===

Manimegalai has also hosted many special shows on festivals and movie promotion shows for Vijay TV, Sun TV, Sun News, K TV and Sun Music.
She has also participated in various reality shows as guest in Sun Network as well as Vijay Television.


=== YouTube ===

Manimegalai has also hosted interviews and fans festivals of movie actors for Behindwoods TV YouTube channel.


=== Award shows ===


=== Album songs ===


== Awards and nominations ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Manimegalai at IMDb
Mani Megalai on Instagram
Manimegalai on Facebook
Manimegalai on X

Thain is a name. 


== Surname ==
Notable people with the surname include:

Caryl Thain (1895–1969), English cricketer
Colin Thain (born 1959), political scientist
Gary Thain (1948–1975), musician
Gillian Stroudley (née Thain, 1925–1992), English painter and printmaker.
James Thain (1921–1975), British aviator, pilot in the 1958 Munich air disaster
John Thain (born 1955), businessman
John Thain (footballer) (1903–1977), English professional footballer
Kevin Thain (born 1969), shinty player
Thomas Thain (died 1832), politician


== Given name ==
Notable people with the given name include:

Thain Simon (1922–2007), ice hockey player
Thain Wendell MacDowell (1890–1960), recipient of the Victoria Cross


== See also ==

Thain (Middle-earth), fictional title
Thane (disambiguation)
Thein
Thegn

The DCRRC Track Championships is an annual all-comers track meet in the United States that has been held since the early 1990s. It is hosted by the DC Road Runners Club. Although it has offered multiple distances, it historically emphasizes the mile race. From 2012 the meet has offered prize money in an effort to attract more runners.
Over the years the meet has been held at Wakefield High School, Washington-Lee High School, and T.C. Williams High School. While the distances offered in the championships has changed slightly over time, the meet consistently hosts a mile race on the track. Due to this consistent tradition, the meet was recognized and promoted by the RRCA's Bring Back The Mile tour. All runners regardless of their experience are allowed to race and are subsequently divided into heats depending on their seeded times.


== Mile winners ==
Note:
Key:
  Meet record


== References ==

F&P Manufacturing Inc. abbreviated F&P Mfg Inc. is a Japanese automotive parts supplier based in North America. They make components such as subframes, trailing arms, Lower Arm and Pedals for Honda, Toyota and General Motors vehicles. F&P Mfg inc. operates plants in Tottenham, Ontario, Canada and Stratford, Ontario, Canada. Its parent company F-Tech was founded in 1947 and is located in Saitama Prefecture, Japan.


== External links ==
F-Tech's Official Site

The Toshiba e310 was a personal digital assistant manufactured by Toshiba and first released in  2002. It ran Windows Pocket PC 2000 and featured a color 240x320 pixel touch-screen LCD, a 206 MHz CPU, and 32MB of RAM. It was also equipped with a Secure Digital card slot, allowing for the expansion of internal memory and a Lithium-ion battery. A software upgrade was issued by Toshiba in 2003.
It was particularly small, thin and light at 12.45 x 7.87 x 1.19 cm and 142g.


== References ==


== External links ==
Toshiba Pocket PC e310 Support Toshiba

Agaram is a panchayat town in Dindigul district, Tamil Nadu, India.


== Geography ==
Agaram is located at 12.82°N 78.88°E﻿ / 12.82; 78.88. It has an average elevation of 297 metres (974 feet).


== Demographics ==
By the 2001 census of India, Agaram had a population of 12,784. Males constitute 50% of the population and females 50%. Agaram has an average literacy rate of 58%, lower than the national average of 59.5%; with 58% of the males and 42% of females literate. 11% of the population is under 6 years of age.


== References ==


== See also ==
Govindavadi

Archibald Thorburn FZS (31 May 1860 in Lasswade, Midlothian – 9 October 1935 in Hascombe, Surrey) was a Scottish artist who specialised in wildlife, painting mostly in watercolour. He explored Scotland to sketch birds in the wild, his favourite haunt being the Forest of Gaick near Kingussie in Inverness-shire. His images of British wildlife were set in front of dramatic backgrounds and were widely reproduced.


== Life and work ==

Archibald was born at Viewfield House, Lasswade, Midlothian, the fifth son of Robert Thorburn (1818–1885), portrait miniaturist to Queen Victoria. His first education was at Dalkeith and in Edinburgh, after which he was sent to the newly founded St John's Wood School of Art in London. His stay there was only brief, since on the death of his father he sought the guidance of Joseph Wolf. It was his commission in 1887 to illustrate Lord Lilford's Coloured Figures of the Birds of the British Isles, for which he painted some 268 watercolours, that established his reputation. He illustrated numerous sporting and natural history books, including his own. He taught Otto Murray Dixon and Philip Rickman (both in Nature in Art's collection), and he encouraged the young Donald Watson when he came to visit him in Dumfries and Galloway. Thorburn was friends with other eminent bird illustrators including George Edward Lodge and John Guille Millais with whom he collaborated on a number of works including: Natural History of British Feeding Ducks; British Diving Ducks and British Game Birds.
His paintings were regularly exhibited at the Royal Academy and he designed their first Christmas card for the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds in 1899, a practice that he continued until 1935. He was Vice-President of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds. In the 1890s Thorburn became disheartened by the British Institution and had his work shown at A. Baird Carter of 70 Jermyn Street.
On his marriage to Constance Mudie, Thorburn moved to High Leybourne in Hascombe in 1902, where he was to spend the rest of his life. In the 1930s he refused to make use of electric lighting, preferring natural light for his painting, and making use of lamps and candles. His grave is at St John the Baptist church in Busbridge, Godalming.


== Books illustrated ==

1882 Sketches of Bird Life - J E Harting
1883–88 Familiar Wild Birds - W.F. Swaysland (a Sussex naturalist and taxidermist), 144 plates, 4 volumes
1885–97 Coloured Figures of the Birds of the British Isles - Lord Lilford, 268 watercolours, 7 volumes
1895 Ornithology of the Straits of Gibraltar by Leonard Howard Loyd Irby
1896 The Deer Forests of Scotland by Arthur Grimble, 8 plates
1915-16 British Birds - 4 volumes
1920 British Mammals
1920–25 The Birds of the British Isles and their eggs - Thomas Coward
1937 Observer Book of British Birds
1997 The Complete Illustrated Thorburn's Birds - Wordsworth Editions Ltd., ISBN 978-1-85326-492-4
Thorburn's mammals - text by Gordon Corbet, Wordsworth Editions Ltd., ISBN 1-85326-493-8


== See also ==
List of wildlife artists
Eliza Turck (1832–1891), who also produced many illustrations for the 1883 edition of "Familiar Wild Birds".


== References ==


== External links ==

Works by or about Archibald Thorburn at the Internet Archive
Birds by Archibald Thorburn - Examples at 'Fine Rare Prints'.
Oiseaux
Illustrations by Archibald Thorburn in Flickr Commons
Thorburn's Cats

This is a list of the universities in Germany. The list also includes German Technische Universitäten (TUs) (Technical Universities), which have official and full university status, but usually focus on engineering and the natural sciences rather than covering the whole spectrum of academic disciplines.

The list does not, however, cover the German Fachhochschulen (Universities of Applied Sciences) or institutions that cover only certain disciplines such as business studies, fine arts, or engineering. Those do not have all of the responsibilities and limitations of universities, and most cannot award doctorate degrees on their own.
Most universities follow the Humboldtian model of higher education. In general, public German universities do not charge tuition fees. At many universities this usually also applies to foreign students, though regulations for non-EU foreign citizens differ regionally. Universities may charge small semester fees for administrative costs. Some universities include the Deutschlandticket at a discounted price in the semester fees. 


== List ==


== See also ==
Charles University in Prague (Karls-Universität) – The first German-speaking university
Education in Germany
Franco-German University – An organization of universities across France and Germany
German Academic Exchange Service
German Universities Excellence Initiative
List of oldest universities in continuous operation
Open access in Germany
TU9 – An association of 9 German universities of technology
U15 – An association of 15 German research-intensive universities
UAS7 – An association of 7 German Universities of Applied Sciences


== References ==


== External links ==

Association of North German Universities (Verbund Norddeutscher Universitäten)
Complete list of German universities – Higher Education Compass (Hochschulkompass)
German Universities – Federal Ministry of Education and Research (Bundesministerium für Bildung und Forschung)
Times Higher Education German University rankings

George Waterston OBE FRSE FZS LLD (10 April 1911 – 30 September 1980) was a 20th-century Scottish stationer, ornithologist and conservationist. From 1949 to 1954 he owned the remote Scottish island, Fair Isle.
He founded the Inverleith Field Club in 1929 and co-founded what was the Midlothian Ornithologists' Club now known as the Scottish Ornithologists' Club. He was their President, Secretary, Treasurer and Honorary President at various times.
He was also one of the founders of the Scottish Arctic Club with its Waterston Arctic Library, now held by the Royal Scottish Geographical Society. He was Director of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds in Scotland.


== Early life ==
Waterston was born in Edinburgh on 10 April 1911, the eldest of the seven children of Winifred (née Sandeman) and Robert Waterston. His father was director of George Waterson & Sons, a long-established family firm of Edinburgh printers and stationers. Whilst the main family lived at 10 Claremont Crescent in the northeast of the New Town, Robert and Winifred do not appear to have lived in the city.
Waterston was educated at Edinburgh Academy from 1918 to 1929. He then entered the family firm as a junior partner. This position afforded him both wealth and free time to pursue his main hobby of ornithology. On the death of his father and uncle George he became Director of the company.
The Midlothian Ornithologists' Club were keen to maintain ornithological work on the Isle of May in the Firth of Forth and a migratory study centre was established. Waterston was influenced by Ronald Lockley's work on Skokholm specifically the use of Heligoland trap which Waterston and others erected in 1934 assisted by Lockley and others.
He is probably best known for his interest in Fair Isle which he first visited in 1935 as a young man. He had great plans for the island, but these were interrupted by World War II. The Fair Isle Bird Observatory Trust was set up and founded in a POW camp. Waterston was appointed secretary and remained so until his death. He bought the island in 1947 and sold it for the same sum of money to the National Trust for Scotland in 1954.


== Second World War ==
As a lieutenant in the Royal Artillery, he was involved in the Battle of Crete, and was captured in 1941. Whilst a prisoner of war, he laid plans for a bird observatory and birdwatchers' hostel, but also for other aspects of island life such as a marketing scheme for the island's products, including Fair Isle knitwear.
In addition, he, along with John Buxton, Peter Conder, John Barrett and others, conducted ornithological work in Oflag VI-B in Dössel (now part of Warburg) and Oflag VII-B prisoner-of-war camps. Waterston was the only serving British officer to contribute a paper to a German scientific journal in wartime. Erwin Stresemann published his paper "A survey of the birds of Crete and bird migration in the Aegean" in the Journal für Ornithologie, based on ornithological observations made on Crete during the spring of 1941. He was repatriated in October 1943.


== Later life ==

Waterston joined James Fisher on the Agricultural Research Council's Rook Survey before rejoining the family business.
In 1955, Waterston was appointed half-time salaried secretary to the Scottish Ornithologists' Club but he had a vision for an ornithological centre. This became reality in 1959 with the purchase of 21 Regents Terrace, Edinburgh. His energies had so broadened the field of bird protection in Scotland that a full-time RSPB Director was required – a post he held for 13 years.
Waterston was largely responsible for the protection of newly returned ospreys in the 1950s. He organised a large team of observers who mounted a round-the-clock guard and placed barbed wire around the base of the nesting site.
He purchased Fair Isle in Shetland and founded the Bird Observatory in 1948. He sold the island to the National Trust for Scotland in 1954. The latter continued to maintain the Observatory. Between 1962 and 1968 he and Roy Dennis made an unsuccessful attempt to re-establish white-tailed eagles on Fair Isle by releasing young birds collected from nests in Norway by the ornithologist Johan Fredrik Willgohs.
In the mid-sixties, his attention turned to Greenland and the Canadian Arctic where he joined several scientific expeditions. He died on 30 September 1980 and is buried in Humbie Parish Churchyard.


== Family ==
In 1947 he married Nancy Ritchie and together they had a son, William (d. 2016), who went on to become a solicitor. His marriage to Nancy was dissolved and in 1958 he married Irene Kinnear (d. 1984).
Waterston was survived by his son William. Both are survived by William's son Matthew Waterston. He was also cousin to Charles Dewar Waterston FRSE.


== Tributes ==
1948 - elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
1964 - appointed an OBE for services to ornithology and conservation.
1972 - awarded the RSPB Gold Medal.

1974 - University of Dundee awarded him an honorary LLD for his outstanding contribution.
George Waterston tried to encourage other conservationists, among them Donald Watson, the wildlife artist; the Art Gallery at Waterston House is named after him.
Two bird-related centres bear George Waterston's name:

Waterston House, the headquarters of the Scottish Ornithologists' Club at Aberlady, East Lothian and its Local Nature Reserve
George Waterston Memorial Centre and Museum on Fair Isle
A wildlife viewing hide at RSPB Scotland Loch Leven bears his name.


== Books ==
Brown, P and Waterston, G. (1962). The Return of the Osprey. Collins.


== See also ==
Category:ornithologists


== References ==

The 1965 NCAA University Division baseball season, play of college baseball in the United States organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) began in the spring of 1965.  The season progressed through the regular season and concluded with the 1965 College World Series.  The College World Series, held for the nineteenth time in 1965, consisted of one team from each of eight geographical districts and was held in Omaha, Nebraska at Johnny Rosenblatt Stadium as a double-elimination tournament.  Arizona State claimed the championship.


== Conference winners ==
This is a partial list of conference champions from the 1965 season.  Each of the eight geographical districts chose, by various methods, the team that would represent them in the NCAA tournament.  10 teams earned automatic bids by winning their conference championship while 13 teams earned at-large selections.


== Conference standings ==
The following is an incomplete list of conference standings:


== College World Series ==

The 1965 season marked the nineteenth NCAA baseball tournament, which culminated with the eight team College World Series.  The College World Series was held in Omaha, Nebraska.  The eight teams played a double-elimination format, with Arizona State claiming their first championship with a 2–1 win over Ohio State in the final.


== Award winners ==


=== All-America team ===


== References ==

Ptilotus corymbosus is a species of flowering plant in the family Amaranthaceae and is endemic to northern Australia. It is an erect or open annual herb, with more or less glabrous stems and leaves, purple, pink or white oval or cylindrical spikes of flowers with five stamens.


== Description ==
Ptilotus corymbosus is an erect or open annual herb that typically grows up to 60 cm (24 in) high, and has glabrous stems and leaves. The leaves on the stems are linear to lance-shaped, 5–80 mm (0.20–3.15 in) long and 1–10 mm (0.039–0.394 in) wide, but there are no leaves at the base of the plant. The flowers are purple, pink or white, borne in oval to cylindrical heads 5–30 mm (0.20–1.18 in) long and 6–15 mm (0.24–0.59 in) wide. There are bracts 2.0–2.5 mm (0.079–0.098 in) long with a prominent midrib, and similar bracteoles 2.6–3.0 mm (0.10–0.12 in) long, at the base of the flowers. The tepals are 4–5 mm (0.16–0.20 in) long with a tuft of hairs on the inner surface. There are five stamens and the style is straight, 1.5–2.2 mm (0.059–0.087 in) long. Flowering occurs from March to July and the seeds are 1.0–1.1 mm (0.039–0.043 in) long and glossy brown.


== Taxonomy ==
Ptilotus corymbosus was first formally described in 1810 by Robert Brown in his Prodromus Florae Novae Hollandiae et Insulae Van Diemen. The specific epithet (corymbosus) means 'corymbose'.


== Distribution and habitat ==
This species of Ptilotus grows in loam, sand or clay on low ridges in the Central Kimberley, Dampierland, Northern Kimberley, Ord Victoria Plain, Victoria Bonaparte bioregions of Western Australia, widespread in the north of the Northern Territory, and in the Lawn Hill area of north-west Queensland.


== Conservation status ==
Ptilotus corymbosus is listed as "not threatened" by the Government of Western Australia Department of Biodiversity, Conservation and Attractions, and as of "least concern" under the Northern Territory Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act and the Queensland Government Nature Conservation Act 1992.


== See also ==
List of Ptilotus species


== References ==

Liffey Junction is a former railway station and junction on the former Midland Great Western Railway (MGWR) in Dublin, Ireland.


== History ==
The station opened in 1864 upon the opening of the Liffey Line from this point to the River Liffey at North Wall. The station closed to passenger traffic on 18 January 1937 upon the concurrent closure of the line from Broadstone to Liffey Junction, such traffic being rerouted to Pearse Station (then Westland Row). The station remained in use until 1977 for cattle traffic and afterwards was used as a wagon storage point.
Today, most of the features of this station have disappeared. Those that remain include the water tower between the trackbed of the mainline and the Liffey Line branch (now part of the Dublin–Sligo line) fronting onto the Royal Canal, traces of the upside island platform and a water column.
There was a carriage shed located between the Liffey Line and the Royal Canal. This area remains distinguishable today as a triangular-shaped area on the northeastern side of the Liffey Line bridge over the Royal Canal. The MGWR's creosoting plant was also located here.
By 2017, tracks had been laid and overhead wires installed along the former alignment to Dublin Broadstone in preparation for the Luas Cross City services, which commenced on 9 December 2017. A new Luas depot was built on the site of the former Liffey Junction station. The downside loading bank was demolished in early 2016.


== References ==

Digigraphics was one of the first graphical computer aided design systems to go on sale. Originally developed at Itek on the PDP-1 as EDM (Electronic Drafting Machine), the efforts were purchased by Control Data Corporation and ported to their machines, along with a new graphics terminal to support it. Systems cost almost $500,000 and supported only a few users at a time, so in spite of a number of advantages it was not cost competitive with traditional manual methods and only a few systems were sold.


== History ==


=== Genesis at Itek ===
MIT's Lincoln Laboratory developed the first high-speed computer in the form of Whirlwind, as part of the US Air Force's SAGE project. SAGE not only required high-speed computers, but also graphical displays and light pens to operate them in real-time. The ideas developed during the SAGE program "leaked out" into the industry as SAGE wound down and its many members moved on to other projects. Ken Olsen formed Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) and took many of the early SAGE programmers with them, Jack Gilmore and Charles Adams started Charles W. Adams Associates, one of the first programming companies, and Norm Taylor went to work at Itek, who was attempting to build a computerized machine for retrieving photographs from a large library. 
In 1959 Gilmore at Adams met with Taylor at Itek and proposed the idea of jointly developing a computer system for engineering design. Taylor convinced Itek's management to fund development, finally receiving the go-ahead in August 1960, retaining Adams Associates to write the software The natural choice for the host computer was DEC's newly released PDP-1. The PDP-1 had many of the same features as the earlier Lincoln Lab machines, including an optional  vector display and light pen support. The PDP-1 was based on an 18-bit word (1/2 the common mainframe 36-bits), had a 4,000-word core memory, and ran at about 0.1 MIPS.
Between mid-1960 and June 1961, the basic hardware was assembled, initially at Digital's facility in Maynard, and later at Itek. Itek's PDP-1 was the second one to be delivered to a customer, the first being to MIT's Project MAC.  A new 25 inch tube was used, larger than the PDP-1's standard 16 inch Type 30, but packaged in a similar hexagonal case. Input was via a combination of light pen for pointing, and the PDP-1's front panel switches for commands. An overlay was used on the front panel to indicate the special functions, and another on the display for labeling outputs.
Normally the PDP-1 display was driven in software, so as the complexity of the drawings increased, performance decreased. Itek addressed this problem by developing a "display processor" that would offload the task of refreshing the screen so the computer could be used solely for processing. Vector information was stored on the outer tracks of a 36 inch hard disk supplied by Telex. Storing data only on the outside meant the linear speed was higher, providing faster throughput and allowing the system to generate 30 images a second from the data. Vectors were stored with 4-bit points to increase performance. In total, the disk system stored about 500,000 18-bit words, with about 20,000 bytes of vector data being used.


=== On the market ===
The basic system was assembled and operational by early 1962, when Itek started actively marketing it as EDM. The system developed intense interest, and was even featured in a Time magazine article:

The operator's designs pass through the console into an inexpensive computer, which solves the problems and stores the answers in its memory banks in both digitalized form and on microfilm. By simply pressing buttons and sketching with the light pen, the engineer may enter into a running dialogue with an EDM, recall any of his earlier drawings to the screen in a millisecond and alter its lines and curves at will.
The US Air Force purchased one system for use at the Lincoln Labs on the PDP-1 that drove their Experimental Dynamic Processor, or DX-1. This version used a magnetic drum in place of the disk, its increased performance allowing more data to be stored before performance became an issue. This version used 6-bit words for locations instead of the prototype's 4-bit words, increasing resolution and allowing support for 2,000 inch documents instead of 800.
EDM was not the only CAD system being developed at the time. General Motors started developing a similar system in 1959, and IBM joined the effort in 1960. In spite of starting at about the same time, Digigraphics beat their DAC-1 to market by the better part of a year.


=== Sale to Control Data ===
EDM was pitched to Itek while its president Richard Leghorn was in the midst of a buying spree. The company was publicly involved in the computer industry (its name was phonetically shortened from "information technology") but in reality supplied a single product, the cameras for the CIA's CORONA spy satellites. As a number of the company's acquisitions failed, Leghorn was removed from control of the company in May 1962 and replaced by Franklin Lindsay. Lindsay quickly shed most of Leghorn's acquisitions, including EDM.
The system was picked up by Control Data Corporation (CDC), who were in the process of introducing a number of computer systems. Adams Associates won a contract to port the system to the CDC 3200 while CDC created a new version of the terminal, the CDC 274, controlled by the new CDC 1700 computer. Versions of the basic system were later ported to other CDC computers, including the 6000 family, which could support several 274's on a single machine.
Over the next few years CDC sold a small number of the Digigraphics systems, first to aerospace companies including Lockheed and Martin Marietta, and later to the US Navy, for use in submarine design. After several years, CDC decided the concept was unprofitable, and closed the division.


== See also ==
DAC-1


== References ==


=== Notes ===


=== Bibliography ===


== External links ==
"MIT Science Reporter" episode from 1962 featuring the Itek EDM (later Digigraphics) system

Claude Joseph Antoine Provost (September 17, 1933 – April 17, 1984) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player.
A right winger, Provost played all 15 seasons of his National Hockey League (NHL) career with the Montreal Canadiens. He won the Stanley Cup nine times and was the first recipient of the Bill Masterton Trophy, awarded for perseverance, in 1967-68.
Provost won nine Stanley Cups with the Canadiens and appeared in eleven NHL All-Star Games, the most by a player not in the Hockey Hall of Fame. Provost also holds the NHL record for the earliest goal in a period with four seconds. In the sixth game of the 1965 Stanley Cup semifinals, Provost scored the game-winning goal against Toronto in overtime. In the "Original Six" era, he was one of 24 players to record five 50-point seasons.


== Achievements ==
Stanley Cup champion — 1956, 1957, 1958, 1959, 1960, 1965, 1966, 1968, 1969
Bill Masterton Trophy: 1968
NHL First All-Star Team: 1965
NHL All-Star Game: 1956, 1957, 1958, 1959, 1960, 1961, 1962, 1963, 1964, 1965, 1967


== Personal life and death ==
Provost had three children. His son, Claude Provost Jr., is the owner and founder of a spa near the municipality of Bolton-Est, Quebec.
Provost died of a heart attack during a vacation to Hallandale, Florida, on April 17, 1984. He was 50 years old.


== Career statistics ==


== See also ==

List of NHL players with 1,000 games played


== References ==


== Notes ==


== External links ==
Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or Hockey-Reference.com, or The Internet Hockey Database

Walther Wever (11 November 1887 – 3 June 1936) was a pre-World War II Luftwaffe Commander. He was an early proponent of the theory of strategic bombing as a means to wage war, while supporting the theories of Giulio Douhet. He died in an air crash in 1936.


== Early life ==
Walther Wever was born on 11 November 1887 in Wilhelmsort in the county of Bromberg (now in Poland, then in East Prussia). He was the son of Arnold Wever, the one-time director of a Berlin bank and the grandson of the Prussian Prosecutor-General Dr. Carl George Wever. After his final secondary examinations, he settled in Schweidnitz where he trained as an officer.
Wever saw action as an aerial observer in World War I and served as a staff officer for the OHL (Oberste Heeresleitung, Army High Command).


== Luftwaffe ==
Wever became the Commander of the Reichsluftfahrtministerium on 1 September 1933. On 1 March 1935, he became Chief of Staff of the Luftwaffe shortly after its creation on 26 February 1935, a post he held until his death. Wever was a supporter of the Strategic bomber and recognised its importance as early as 1934. He supported the aviation companies such as Junkers and Dornier, in their respective projects to produce the Ju 89 and Dornier Do 19 competitors for the Ural Bomber production contract competition. Wever outlined five key points to air strategy:

1. To destroy the enemy air force by bombing its bases and aircraft factories and defeating enemy air forces attacking German targets.2. To prevent the movement of large enemy ground forces to the decisive areas by destroying railways and roads, particularly bridges and tunnels, which are indispensable for the movement and supply of forces3. To support the operations of the army formations, independent of railways, i.e, armored forces and motorised forces, by impeding the enemy advance and participating directly in ground operations.4. To support naval operations by attacking naval bases, protecting Germany's naval bases and participating directly in naval battles5. To paralyze the enemy armed forces by stopping production in the armaments factories.
However, after his death, other people, like Ernst Udet and Hans Jeschonnek, favored smaller aircraft as they did not use as much material and manpower. They were proponents of the dive-bomber (Junkers Ju 87) and the doctrine of close support and destruction of the opposing air forces on the 'battle-ground' rather than through attacking enemy industry. As a result, high-speed medium-bombers such as the Heinkel He 111, Dornier Do 17, and Junkers Ju 88 were developed, with much initial success. While some large strategic bomber programs were initiated, most notable the Ural Bomber project, which morphed into the He 177 Program, without a proponent of strategic bombing in the upper echelons of the Luftwaffe, the programs saw little progress and would ultimately be developed too late into the war to have any meaningful effect. 

On 3 June 1936, Wever flew from Berlin to Dresden to give a lecture at the Luftkriegsschule Klotzsche to a gathering of Luftwaffe cadets. He was intending to fly straight back to Berlin for the funeral of World War I German hero Karl Litzmann. On his return journey the Heinkel He 70 'Blitz' that he was flying had not been properly examined during preflight checks in his hurry, and he had not removed the aileron gust locks. He had been warned the previous day that he was not thoroughly familiar with the aircraft. Wever was barely airborne when the wing dipped, and the Heinkel stalled and went into a horizontal cartwheel (akin to a ground loop, but at low altitude). It crashed and exploded, killing Wever and his flight engineer. The same day, the RLM issued the Bomber A heavy bomber specification and design competition for what would become the Luftwaffe's only wartime heavy bomber in production and frontline service, the Heinkel He 177.
After Wever's death a Luftwaffe bomber wing, Kampfgeschwader 4 General Wever was named after him, which fittingly enough in the later war years would be equipped with the only aircraft resulting from the design competition which started on the day of General Wever's death, the Heinkel He 177. His son, also named Walther Wever, was a fighter pilot who was killed in action in April 1945.
Following the death of Generalleutnant Walther Wever, Albert Kesselring became Chief of Staff of the Luftwaffe on 3 June 1936.


== Notes and citations ==


== References ==
Corum, James S. (1997). The Luftwaffe; Creating the Operational Air War 1918-1940. University Press of Kansas. ISBN 0-7006-0836-2
Corum, J. S. (1999). "Stärken und Schwächen der Luftwaffe" in Müller, R.-D. & Volkmann, H.-E. (Eds.) Die Wehrmacht: Mythos und Realität (in German). Munich: Oldenbourg Verlag.
Griehl, Manfred & Dressel, Joachim. (1994) Bombers of the Luftwaffe. DAG Publications. ISBN 1-85409-140-9
Suchenwirth, Richard (1969). Fletcher, Harry (ed.). Command and Leadership in the German Air Force. USAF Historical Studies No. 174. Aerospace Studies Institute: Air University. Archived from the original on 2013-05-27. Retrieved 2024-03-04.{{cite book}}:  CS1 maint: bot: original URL status unknown (link) CS1 maint: publisher location (link)


== External links ==
The Ural bomber Concept: Wever's Dream Archived 2011-06-11 at the Wayback Machine

Stephen Bell (13 March 1965 – 21 April 2001) was an English professional footballer who played as a winger.
He made his debut for Middlesbrough aged 16 years and 323 days against Southampton on 30 January 1982 in the Football League First Division, making him the joint youngest player to appear in a competitive game for the club. He played a total of 85 first team appearances for Middlesbrough, mostly after their relegation to the Football League Second Division at the end of the 1981–82. Brief spells with Darlington and Whitby Town followed.
He died 21 April 2001, aged 36.


== References ==

Euforia – Helen Sjöholm sjunger Billy Joel (transl. Helen Sjöholm sings Billy Joel) is an album by Swedish singer and actor Helen Sjöholm, released in November 2010. The album features 11 compositions by American musician and pianist, singer-songwriter, and classical composer Billy Joel, performed by Sjöholm. All songs are performed in Swedish, with lyrics written by Tomas Andersson Wij.


== Album Information ==
"Euforia" is the 2nd solo album by Swedish singer and musical star Helen Sjöholm. Sjöholm is famous for playing the role of Kristina in Benny Andersson's and Björn Ulvaeus's (both of ABBA fame) musical Kristina från Duvemåla and being part of Andersson's current group Benny Anderssons Orkester. Apart from various other contributions through the years (see Helen Sjöholm discography), she also released a solo album Visor in 2002. It took her almost ten years to record another album of her own, which was eventually called "Euforia" and released in late 2010.
Recording and mixing for the album, which was produced by Gunnar Nordén, took place in Atlantis Studios and Supro Studio, Stockholm, throughout 2010.
"Euforia" is a concept album. All songs are compositions by Billy Joel, to which Tomas Andersson Wij wrote Swedish lyrics. Apparently, Sjöholm came across the Billy Joel song She's Always A Woman sometime in early 2010, while thinking about a new album. Being a favourite of hers, she started listening to more Billy Joel songs and discovered one song after another that she liked. Eventually, in the spring of 2010, she developed the album project together with Martin Östergren, Georg "Jojje" Wadenius, producer Gunnar Nordén and Tomas Andersson Wij, who was asked to write the Swedish lyrics for all titles.
Upon its release in November 2010, the album immediately entered the Swedish Albums Chart and peaked at number six on 3 December. During its 18-week chart run, the album also received a Gold disc in the end of December. To promote the album, the song "Kvinnan för dig" (originally titled She's Always A Woman) was released to radio and a promo clip for television was produced by Universal Music Sweden. In early 2011, Sjöholm went on tour and played 16 dates in Sweden.


== Track listing ==


== Personnel ==
List of musicians that contributed to the recordings of Euforia:

Vocals: Helen Sjöholm
Electric guitar: Georg Wadenius
Piano, Organ: Martin Östergren
Acoustic Guitar: Gunnar Nordén
Drums: André Ferrari
bass: Fredrik Jonsson
Tenor saxophone, Alto flute: Magnus Lindgren
Strings: Stockholm Sessions Strings


== Cover Versions ==
On 19 December 2020 Swedish singer Tove Styrke covered Varje sår säker ett sår during the last episode of the 11th season of the TV4 show Så mycket bättre. Despite not changing the lyrics, Tove's version featured progressive electronics and wind instruments. By the end of the performance Helen called this version 'beautiful' and 'strong'.


== References ==

My Fellow Citizens! (Korean: 국민 여러분!; RR: Gungmin yeoreobun!) is a 2019 South Korean television series starring Choi Si-won, Lee Yoo-young and Kim Min-jung. It aired from April 1 to May 28, 2019 on KBS2.


== Synopsis ==
A con man, who gets involved with unexpected incidents, marries a police officer and somehow ends up running to become a member of the National Assembly.


== Cast ==


=== Main ===
Choi Si-won as Yang Jung-kook, a skilled fraudster who is the third generation of a family of con artists. He gets involved with a loan shark to earn a large sum of money for his marriage, only to get scammed by his ex-girlfriend who runs off with the marriage funds.
Lee Yoo-young as Kim Mi-young, a police detective who catches her ex-boyfriend cheating on her, but meets Jung-kook. The two become close and soon begin dating. She chooses to lie about her job to keep their relationship and finally decides to confess her true life to Jung-kook on their wedding day.
Kim Min-jung as Park Hoo-ja, the fourth daughter of Park Sang-pil, a notorious loan shark, who trains to become his successor. Her father collapses after being a victim of a mysterious stranger's schemes. After her father's death, she inherits and successfully expands their business and tracks down the person who conned her father, Jung-kook. Instead, of revenge, Hoo-ja offers to save his life as long as he runs for a seat in the National Assembly.


=== Supporting ===
Tae In-ho as Han Sang-jin, a political newcomer who is the step-brother of Mi-young.
Kim Eui-sung as Kim Joo-myung, a veteran politician who is a member of the National Assembly.
Im Ji-hyun as Yoo Hee-jin, Jung-kook's ex-girlfriend.
Jeon Seok-ho as Kang Hyun-tae, Sang-jin's former university colleague and current policy adviser.
Heo Jae-ho as Choi Pil-joo, Hoo-ja's right-hand man.
Lee Ju-myoung as Hwang Seung-yi
Ahn Eun-jin as Park Gwi-nam
Jung Soo-young as Myung-in
Ji Yi-soo as Detective Na
Kim Min-jae as Kim Nam-hwa


=== Special appearance ===
Yeom Hye-ran as Sun-hee, Park Hoo-ja's older sister. (Ep. 11)


== Original soundtrack ==


=== Part 1 ===


=== Part 2 ===


=== Part 3 ===


=== Part 4 ===


=== Part 5 ===


=== Part 6 ===


== Ratings ==


== Awards and nominations ==


== American adaptation ==

In March 2022, ABC ordered the pilot of an American adaptation of the series titled The Company You Keep, starring Milo Ventimiglia. It is being written and executive produced by Julia Cohen for 20th Television. In April and May 2022, Catherine Haena Kim and William Fichtner joined the cast in the pilot, respectively. Also in May, Sarah Wayne Callies, James Saito, Tim Chiou, Freda Foh Shen and Felisha Terrell were added to the cast. In August 2022, ABC picked up the series. It premiered on February 19, 2023.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website (in Korean)
My Fellow Citizens! on KBS World
My Fellow Citizens! at IMDb
My Fellow Citizens! at HanCinema

"That's the Way the Money Goes" is a song by the English new wave and synth-pop music project M, released as both a 7" and 12" single from their debut studio album, New York–London–Paris–Munich (1979). The single was released by MCA Records in the UK, and Sire Records in the US, it peaked at No. 45 on the UK singles chart, and No. 38 on the US Billboard Hot Dance Club Play (their final chart placing there).


== Background ==
The lyrics explore economic concepts, inflation, and the stock market, comparing financial systems to a game or a casino, which is reflected in the cover art. The core phrase itself dates back centuries in English usage, historically reflecting the cost of living or the loss of funds.
The back cover of the single offered one person, and their companion the chance to win seven nights in New York City, via British Airways, if their copy of the record said "it's a winner, it's your lucky day", with 500 runner-ups being given free copies of its parent album New York–London–Paris–Munich.


== Critical reception ==
Record World wrote that the single is a "loveable electronic dancer here that's sure to be a staple on AOR and the club circuit," particularly praising the keyboards.


== Track listing ==
"That's the Way the Money Goes" –	3:51
”Satisfy Your Lust (Before You Go Bust)" – 3:26


== Chart performance ==


== References ==


== External links ==
"That's the Way the Money Goes" at Discogs (list of releases)

Fer is a genus of grasshoppers in the subfamily Oxyinae (previously in the related Catantopinae) and not assigned to any tribe.  Species can be found in southern China and Vietnam.


== Species ==
The Orthoptera Species File lists:

Fer bimaculiformis You & Li, 1983
Fer coeruleipennis Bolívar, 1918 - type species
Fer guangxiensis Jiang & Zheng, 1994
Fer nigripennis Zheng & Xie, 2007
Fer nonmaculiformis Zheng, Lian & Xi, 1985
Fer yunnanensis Huang & Xia, 1984


== References ==


== External links ==
 Data related to Catantopinae at Wikispecies

Daniel Miguel was a Cuban second baseman in the Negro leagues and the Cuban League in 1899 and 1900.
Miguel played for the All Cubans in 1899. He went on to play in the Cuban League in 1900.


== References ==


== External links ==
Baseball statistics and player information from Seamheads

The 94th Scripps National Spelling Bee was a spelling bee that was held at Gaylord National Resort & Convention Center in National Harbor, Maryland. The finals were held on June 2, 2022, and televised on Ion Television and Bounce TV, marking its debut on the organiser-owned Scripps Television. The winner of the bee was Harini Logan, an 8th–grade girl from San Antonio, Texas, who won with 21 words spelled correctly during the Bee's first spell-off round.


== Field ==
There were 234 contestants in the field for the 2022 edition of the spelling bee, which was a modest increase over 209 spellers that competed in the year before. This year marked a return to normalcy for the bee after the past two years were affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The youngest speller in the bee was 7–year old Matthew Yi, and the most experienced speller was 13–year old Akash Vukoti. 12 spellers from ages 11 to 14 made the final round, which was held on June 2, 2022.


== Competition ==
Actor LeVar Burton hosted the spelling bee on Scripps-owned Ion Television and Bounce TV, which broadcast every day of the event.
The spelling bee was broken up into four segments this year: preliminaries, quarterfinals, semifinals, and finals. The newly introduced word meaning competition returned for the second time. After the preliminary round, the field was already reduced from 234 to 88 spellers.
Both the quarterfinals and semifinals took place on June 1, 2022. 40 more spellers were eliminated in the quarterfinals, leaving the field at 48 spellers. The word meaning round caused many contenders to be eliminated in this round. A controversial monument came in the semifinal round when speller Surya Kapu misspelled the word leucovorin, but was reinstated after an appeal saying that he was not given enough information about a root in the word. 12 spellers remained after the semifinals.
The finals began on Thursday night at 8pm and lasted for over 3 hours. The third–to–last speller was eliminated in Round 11, leaving 12–year old Vikram Raju and 14–year old Harini Logan to compete for the title. Logan had a chance to win the bee in Round 16 after Raju misspelt the word caul, but Logan was unable to correctly spell the word drimys for the championship. The two remaining competitors lasted through the entire championship word list after 18 rounds, meaning the tiebreaker round implemented after the 2019 finish was used for the first time.  Competitors have 1:30 to spell as many words as they could from the tiebreaker list. Logan spelled 21 words correctly to Raju's 15 in the spell–off round, making Logan the 2022 champion.


== Word list championship round ==


== Word list spell-off round ==


== See also ==
List of Scripps National Spelling Bee champions


== References ==

Always Only Jesus is the eleventh studio album by the American Christian rock band MercyMe. The album was released on October 21, 2022, via Fair Trade Services, to CD, LP, digital download, and streaming formats. It was produced by Tedd Tjornhom, Brown Bannister, and Jordan Mohilowski.
Always Only Jesus was supported by the release of three singles, including "Then Christ Came", featuring Phil Wickham, "To Not Worship You", and "Always Only Jesus". "Then Christ Came" peaked at number 3 on the Billboard Hot Christian Songs chart, hile "To Not Worship You" peaked at number 5 and "Always Only Jesus" peaked at number 11. Selling 9,000 first-week units in the United States, Always Only Jesus debuted at number 126 on the Billboard 200, and opened leading the Top Christian Albums chart.


== Composition ==


=== Style ===
Always Only Jesus is predominantly demonstrative of a "pop‑centric CCM" approach, containing polished production and rhythmic percussion. Critics often noted the album's airplay-friendly, radio‑ready sound, especially compared to the more diverse sound of the album's preceding Inhale (Exhale) (2021). Josh Balogh of Jesus Freak Hideout observed the band's change toward "a trim ten‑track set" and praised the album's "drum line percussion, clipped phrasing, and the type of hook that has garnered mainstream band Imagine Dragons a zillion streams.". Timothy Yap of Jubilee Cast noted its energetic, modern pop tyles.
Several critics pointed out the album's mixture of upbeat pop and reflective ballads. Balogh identified the track "Lost in You" as a "mid‑tempo highlight" featuring frontman Bart Millard's falsetto, while calling "Then Christ Came" a "slow burn piano ballad" that builds into an "infectious bounce". Mallory Romportl of Today's Christian Entertainment placed emphasis on the album's dynamic pacing, noting that "'To Not Worship You'… slows down a bit, it flows very nicely and has a great beat".. Yap praised the "breezy pop with a crisp beat" of Lost in You". The album closes with a reimagined hymn, "Nothing But the Blood", which critics viewed as a stylistic risk. Dan Macintosh of CCM Magazine called the rearrangement one that "will make you listen to these familiar hymn's lyrics in a new light", while Yap argued that "not many new melodies can match the eternally endearing originals… sadly, MercyMe are unsuccessful too".


=== Lyrics and meaning ===
Lyrically, Always Only Jesus centers on themes of God's supremacy, personal transformation, and grace. Critics repeatedly noted the album's explicit Christ‑focused writing. Macintosh praised MercyMe's "solid theology", noting that the band "are never afraid to specifically sing the name of Jesus", contrasting them with worship songs that "can oftentimes be mistaken for romantic love songs". Yap similarly described the album as "a return to the fundamentals", with its ten tracks “point[ing] to Jesus and the message of the Gospel".
Several songs explore personal struggle and spiritual redemption. "Forgivable" has been considered to be one of the most significant examples of this, containing a message of grace; Yap praised its direct engagement with self‑pity and shame, while Romportl repeated the specific lyrics "Come as you are, not as you should be" as capturing "how much grace He has on us". "Heart Beats for Your Good", another notable example of this, addresses suffering with poetic imagery; Yap noted its "moving lines", including the metaphor of a hurricane that "is nothing but a breeze to You"..
Transformation is a central theme in "Then Christ Came", which multiple critics labelled as one of the album's most emotional tracks. Jonathan Andre of 365 Days of Inspiring Media described it as "a song about Christ coming into our lives and nothing ever being the same". Romportl likewise called it "a beautiful song" that "describes what it's like when Jesus radically changes your life". The title track reinforces the further emphasizes the album's thematic core. Yap noted that the song "spells out the direction of the record", while Macintosh described it as a "statement of purpose" reminding listeners to resist distraction and "remember… the name of Jesus".


== Reception ==


=== Critical ===
Always Only Jesus received generally positive reviews, with critics praising its Christ‑centered lyrics, while noting that not every song reaches the same level of impact. Macintosh commended the album's theological lyrics, writing that MercyMe's songs are "always only about Jesus, and Jesus alone". Balogh offered a more mixed but appreciative review, describing the album as "a safe play back to what has worked before, with the slightest of tweaks". He named four particular tracks which he enjoyed, "Hands Up", "Better Days Coming", "Lost in You", and "Then Christ Came", although concluded that the rest of the album is "solid… but certainly not nearly as memorable", placing it "somewhere in the middle" on MercyMe's discography. Yap praised the album for its "moments of greatness", namely the tracks "Forgivable", "Hands Up", "Heart Beats for Your Good", and "Lost in You", while he criticized the new melody for "Nothing But the Blood" as unsuccessful. He ultimately described the album as commendable but "not flawless".
Andre offered one of the most positive reviews, calling the album "purposeful and intentional" and praising its emotional and spiritual resonance. He highlighted "Then Christ Came" as "worth the wait" and described the album as containing "no filler". Romportl responded positively as well, emphasizing the album's uplifting tone and family-friendly appeal. She described it as "awesome", noting that "many of the songs have lyrics that are really powerful".


=== Commercial ===
Within its first commercial week, Always Only Jesus sold 9,000 album units in the United States, according to reports from Luminate. It debuted leading the Billboard Top Christian Albums chart and reached number 126 on the overall Billboard 200, while in the UK it debuted at number 17 on the UK Christian & Gospel Albums Chart.
Always Only Jesus contained three charted songs. "Then Christ Came", which featured Phil Wickham, was released in July 2022 as the album's lead single. "Then Christ Came" impacted Christian radio positively, going on to peak atop the Billboard Christian Airplay chart. The achievement was repeated by its successor, "To Not Worship You", which was released as the album's second single. Both songs entered the top 10 of the overall Hot Christian Songs chart, with "Then Christ Came" at number 3 and "To Not Worship You" at number 5. "Always Only Jesus", the project's title track, was released as the third single in June 2024; however, it did not achieve the same level of commercial success as its predecessors, peaking at number 11 on the Hot Christian Songs chart.


== Track listing ==
"Hands Up" (Bart Millard, Jordan Mohilowski, Solomon Olds) - 3:21
"Better Days Coming" (Ethan Hulse, Bart Milard, Sam Millard, Jordan Mohilowski) - 3:45
"Forgivable" (Ethan Hulse, Bart Milard, Jordan Mohilowski) - 3:52
"To Not Worship You" (Brown Bannister, MercyMe, Jordan Mohilowski, Tedd T) - 3:45
"Always Only Jesus" (Jess Cates, MercyMe, Jordan Mohilowski) - 4:02
"Heart Beats For Your Good" (Nathan Cochran, Barry Graul, Bart Milard, Sam Millard, Mike Scheuchzer, Abby Siler, Tim Timmons, Tedd T) - 4:00
"Grace Amazing" (Jon Guerra, Matt Maher, MercyMe) - 3:49
"Lost in You" (Bart Milard, Jordan Mohilowski, Mike Scheuchzer) - 4:07
"Then Came Christ" (Bart Milard, Jason Ingram, David Leonard, Phil Wickham) - 3:41
"Nothing But the Blood" (Robert Lowry, Brown Bannister, MercyMe, Jordan Mohilowski, Tedd T) - 4:54


== Charts ==


== References ==

Peter King may refer to:


== Music ==
Pete King (composer) (1914–1982), American
Pete King (saxophonist) (1929–2009), English jazz, manager of Ronnie Scott's club
Peter King (Nigerian musician) (1939–2023), Nigerian saxophonist
Peter King (saxophonist) (1940–2020), English jazz, worked with Charlie Watts
Pete King (British musician) (1958–1987), British rock drummer


== Politics ==
Peter King, 1st Baron King (1669–1734), Lord Chancellor of England
Peter King, 7th Baron King (1776–1833), English aristocrat, politician, and economic writer
Peter King, 5th Earl of Lovelace (1951–2018), British peer
Peter King (British politician) (1811–1885) Liberal Party MP
Peter Maurice King (1940–2018), Australian, National Country Party
Peter King (Australian politician) (born 1952), Liberal Party
Peter King (Northern Ireland politician), judge and Unionist politician
Peter King (American politician) (born 1944), U.S. representative from New York


== Sports ==
Peter King (cricketer) (born 1959), Australian
Peter King (footballer, born 1943) (born 1943), English footballer with Cardiff City
Peter King (footballer, born 1964) (1964–2012), English footballer with Crewe Alexandra
Peter King (Gaelic footballer) (born 1983), Irish


== Other ==
Peter King (British Army officer) (1916–1962), during World War II
Peter King (make-up artist) (born 1955), for the film The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King
Peter King (sportswriter) (born 1957), American writer previously for Sports Illustrated
Peter King, former editor in chief of Pro Wrestling Illustrated.
Peter King, Australian business executive, CEO of Westpac


== See also ==
King (surname)

Lycinus caldera is a mygalomorph spider of Chile.


== See also ==
Spider anatomy
Regions of Chile


== References ==


== External links ==
"Lycinus caldera". Integrated Taxonomic Information System.
ADW entry
"Lycinus caldera". The Encyclopedia of Life.

Music That You Can Dance To is the fourteenth studio album by American pop duo Sparks, released in September 1986 by MCA Records in the US and Consolidated Allied Records in the UK, two years after their previous studio album, Pulling Rabbits Out of a Hat (1984).


== Background ==
Music That You Can Dance To was the band's most dance music inspired album since their eighth studio album Nº 1 in Heaven (1979). The overall sound of the album was dominated by synthesizers and sequencers like Nº 1 in Heaven but it differed from that release by the inclusion of the heavily distorted bass guitar of Leslie Bohem, and the emphasis on discordant sound effects. "Music That You Can Dance To", "Fingertips" and "The Scene" represent some of Sparks' most hi-NRG dance music leanings. "Shopping Mall of Love", "Let's Get Funky", and (on the original U.S. edition) "Change" presented a side of the band's sound that is discordant and experimental, whereas "Rosebud" and the rerecording of their 1982 single "Modesty Plays" are not dissimilar from the synth-pop sound that the band had pursued on their previous two studio albums. "Armies of the Night" had been recorded for the supernatural horror film Fright Night (1985); the version that appeared on the European editions of Music That You Can Dance To was a re-recording.
The song appeared in the movie RAD during the dance sequence.
The recording of the album was the last time that the Mael brothers worked with the backing band line-up of guitarist Bob Haag, bassist Leslie Bohem, and drummer David Kendrick. This line-up had been in place since Sparks' tenth studio album Whomp That Sucker (1981). Sparks' next studio album, Interior Design (1988), was recorded as more of a duo with some guest musicians. Kendrick joined new wave band Devo and appeared on their seventh studio album, Total Devo (1988).


== Release ==
Music That You Can Dance To was even less successful on the album charts than their previous studio album, Pulling Rabbits Out of a Hat (1984), had been. It was released on a number of different record labels across different territories: Consolidated Allied Records in the UK, Curb Records in Germany, and MCA Records in North America and Australasia. For the MCA releases, the album substituted "Armies of the Night" with the 1985 single "Change".
"Music That You Can Dance To", "Rosebud", and "Fingertips" were each released as singles to promote the album. Each was also released as an extended remix. The UK and US remixes of "Music That You Can Dance To" were different. "Fingertips" was released as a club promo in the US and was backed with "The Scene". The club-orientated singles did not register on the mainstream charts, but did make the Billboard Hot Dance Music/Club Play chart; "Music That You Can Dance To" made No. 6 (their highest club chart peak) and the double A-side "Fingertips"/"The Scene" made No. 38.
"Change" was released in the UK on London Records in 1985 and reached No. 85 on the UK singles chart. The standalone single was promoted by an appearance on the British television talk show Wogan. None of the other singles were popular in the UK. 


== Critical reception ==
Anita Sarko in Spin was dismissive of the album and remarked that "at one time they were considered rather avant-garde, but now they seem stuck in the techno-pop of years past."


== Re-release ==
In 1990 Curb Records re-released Music That You Can Dance To under the title The Best of Sparks: Music That You Can Dance To. The release featured a different sleeve and corresponded to the MCA track listing, with "Change" and not "Armies of the Night". Repertoire Records reissued the album in 2011 with "Armies of the Night" as track four instead of "Change".


== Track listing ==


== Personnel ==
Sparks

Russell Mael – vocals
Ron Mael – all synthesizers (Fairlight CMI; Roland Jupiter-8; Yamaha DX7); lead vocals on "Shopping Mall of Love"
Additional musicians

Bob Haag – Endodyne guitars; Roland synthesizers; backing vocals
Leslie Bohem – bass guitar; backing vocals
David Kendrick – drums
John Thomas – additional keyboards
Robert Mache – guitar on "Fingertips"
Production

Ron Mael – producer
Russell Mael – producer
Greg Penny – production on "Modesty Plays (New Version)"


== Charts ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Music That You Can Dance To at Discogs (list of releases)

Kołacz [ˈkɔwat͡ʂ] (German Kollatz) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Połczyn-Zdrój, within Świdwin County, West Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-western Poland. It lies approximately 6 km (4 mi) east of Połczyn-Zdrój, 28 km (17 mi) east of Świdwin, and 114 km (71 mi) east of the regional capital Szczecin.


== References ==

In Greek mythology, Eleusis ( ih-LEW-siss) or Eleusinus (Ancient Greek: Ἐλευσίς, romanized: Eleusís) was the eponymous hero of the town of Eleusis.


== Family ==
Eleusis was a son of Hermes and the Oceanid Daeira, or of Ogygus. Panyassis wrote of him as father of Triptolemus, adding that "Demeter came to him"; this version of the myth is found in the works of Hyginus and Servius. In other accounts, Eleusis had no offspring.


== Mythology ==
King Eleusis and Cothonea (Cyntinia), parents of Triptolemus, are visited by Demeter, who rears their son, feeding him divine milk by day and placing him into the fire at night, which makes Triptolemus grow faster than mortal children normally do. She eventually kills Eleusis for intervening when the fire ritual is performed. The myth is closely parallel with the one that deals with Demeter visiting Celeus and Metaneira (also possible parents of Triptolemus) and nursing their son Demophon.
In other accounts, Eleusis appears as a female character.


== See also ==
List of Greek deities


== Notes ==


== References ==
Apollodorus, The Library with an English Translation by Sir James George Frazer, F.B.A., F.R.S. in 2 Volumes, Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd. 1921. ISBN 0-674-99135-4. Online version at the Perseus Digital Library. Greek text available from the same website.
Gaius Julius Hyginus, Fabulae from The Myths of Hyginus translated and edited by Mary Grant. University of Kansas Publications in Humanistic Studies. Online version at the Topos Text Project.
The Homeric Hymns and Homerica with an English Translation by Hugh G. Evelyn-White. Homeric Hymns. Cambridge, MA., Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd. 1914. Online version at the Perseus Digital Library. Greek text available from the same website.
Pausanias, Description of Greece with an English Translation by W.H.S. Jones, Litt.D., and H.A. Ormerod, M.A., in 4 Volumes. Cambridge, MA, Harvard University Press; London, William Heinemann Ltd. 1918. ISBN 0-674-99328-4. Online version at the Perseus Digital Library
Pausanias, Graeciae Descriptio. 3 vols. Leipzig, Teubner. 1903.  Greek text available at the Perseus Digital Library.

Margaret DeBardeleben Tutwiler (born December 28, 1950) is an American politician who has served multiple different positions within the United States Department of State.


== Early life and career ==
Tutwiler was born in Birmingham, Alabama, the daughter of Temple Tutwiler II and Margaret (DeBardeleben) Tutwiler. She attended Finch College in Manhattan and the University of Alabama. She was offered a job as the secretary of the chairman of the Alabama Republican Party following her graduation.
At age 26, she worked under James A. Baker III in Gerald Ford’s unsuccessful 1976 presidential campaign. In 1980, she was one of a team of relatively younger aides assembled by Baker to run Bush’s campaign for the presidential nomination. When Bush lost the nomination to Ronald Reagan, Reagan tapped Baker to run his presidential campaign, and Baker brought Tutwiler with him to the campaign.


== Reagan White House ==

When Reagan won the presidency and Baker became White House Chief of Staff, Tutwiler asked to accompany him, saying, "Until we figure it out, can’t I just be your jack of all trades?" Once they were ensconced in the White House, one of Tutwiler's duties was to return phone calls from members of congress, or the press, if Baker could not himself return the call.
Gradually, Tutwiler became known as Baker's right hand and alter ego.  In the run-up to the 1984 election, Baker installed Tutwiler as liaison at Reagan's re-election campaign, in part to keep an eye on Ed Rollins, who had left his position as Assistant to the President for Political Affairs and became chair of the campaign, and who was critical of Baker.
In January 1985, after Reagan won the 1984 election, he appointed Baker as Secretary of the Treasury, and Baker took his White House team with him to the Treasury, where Tutwiler became Baker's chief political assistant, initially holding the position of Assistant Secretary For Public Affairs.


== H.W. Bush White House ==
In 1989, after George H. W. Bush was elected president, Baker became Secretary of State, and Tutwiler moved with him to the State Department as Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs—although she had to be convinced to take the position, because it involved daily briefings on matters with which she was not yet familiar.
In June 1989, when protests erupted in Beijing's Tiananmen Square, the Bush administration was concerned that a strong condemnation from the U.S. might damage the rapprochement with China which had begun during the Nixon administration, and impair the ability of the U.S. to use China as a counterweight in its geopolitical struggle with the Soviet Union.   As Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, Tutwiler was in charge of press and public briefings conducted by the State Department's Bureau of Public Affairs.   She objected to the administration's position regarding the protests, and urged Baker to speak out against the Chinese government's crackdown on protesters.  Initially, she refused to conduct briefings supporting the administration's position.   To overcome her scruples, Baker had to personally insist that she conduct the briefings.
It was Tutwiler who urged Baker to invite Soviet Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze to accompany him on a trip to his ranch in Wyoming, which would provide an opportunity for the two men to become better acquainted.   The trip took place in September, 1989.
President Bush met Soviet General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev for a summit in Malta on December 2–3, 1989.  Tutwiler was part of the State Department party who travelled to Malta for the summit.
On August 13, 1992, President Bush announced that Baker was leaving the State Department, and returning to the White House as White House Chief of Staff, and would run Bush's re-election campaign.  Tutwiler was one of the advisers who moved back to the White House with him.  After Bush lost his bid for re-election, William Barr, then the Attorney General, appointed a special prosecutor to investigate whether the Bush campaign had sought information from Bill Clinton's passport files.  No charges were filed, but Tutwiler and other aides had to find lawyers to represent them during the investigation.
In 1996, Baker considered running for president against Clinton.  One of the people from whom he sought advice on whether to run was Tutwiler.  Tutwiler also read and critiqued drafts of Baker's memoir.


== 2000 election and W. Bush White House ==
When the result of the 2000 United States presidential election in Florida was in doubt, Baker became the head of the George W. Bush's legal team in the state.  One of the first things Baker did was to phone Tutwiler and ask her to mobilize his aides and go to Florida.  Tutwiler was installed in a corner office near Baker's office in the state Republican Party building.
On August 25, 2002, prior to the second Iraq war, the New York Times published a column by Baker urging the President to seek a United Nations Security Council resolution authorizing the use of force to compel Iraq to submit to international inspection.  Tutwiler urged Baker to take a harder line against a war, but Baker declined to publicly criticize the approach taken by the White House.
During the administration of George W. Bush, Tutwiler was Ambassador to Morocco from March 2001 until 2003, when she became Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs, serving from December 16, 2003, to June 30, 2004. She was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on December 9, 2003, to replace outgoing Under Secretary Charlotte Beers.  Tutwiler was given the task of leading "the government's public-relations drive to build a favorable impression abroad."


== Private sector work ==
In July 2004, she began directing communications for NYSE Euronext. Her boss at the NYSE, John Thain, later brought her on board as head of communications at Merrill Lynch in December 2007 and then at CIT Group in August 2010.
Tutwiler is a member of the board of directors of the International Republican Institute.


== References ==


== External links ==

Appearances on C-SPAN
Margaret Tutwiler Diaries at the Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library, Princeton University
USC Center on Public Diplomacy Profile
Interview in  Frontline Diplomacy: The Foreign Affairs Oral History Collection of the Association for Diplomatic Studies and Training.
Profile in the Alabama Academy of Honor Archived February 1, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
Margaret Tutwiler's diaries from her time as State Department Spokesman and Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs under Secretary of State James Baker at Mudd Manuscript Library, Princeton University.

Fire from Heaven is a 1969 historical novel by Mary Renault about the childhood and youth of Alexander the Great. It reportedly was a major inspiration for the Oliver Stone film Alexander. The book was nominated for the "Lost Man Booker Prize" of 1970, "a contest delayed by 40 years because a reshuffling of the fledgeling competition's rules", but lost out to Troubles by J. G. Farrell.


== Plot summary ==

Fire from Heaven begins with Alexander as a young child in the court of his father, Philip of Macedon, and closes with the immediate aftermath of his father's assassination at Aegae, the event which led Alexander to assume power. The novel deals with the relationship between Philip and Queen Olympias and Alexander's changing loyalties to them, Alexander's tuition under Aristotle, Alexander's sexuality and relationship with his friend and future General Hephaistion, and Alexander's growing prowess as a soldier during his father's conquest of the Greek states. As a novel concerned with Alexander's youth, it does not deal with his conquest of the Persian Empire beyond foreshadowing.


=== Main locations ===
Pella – the opening scene of the novel, capital city of Macedon. Pella is presented as a place of constant political struggles. It is where Alexander's childhood is spent and where most of the central relationships are formed.
Aigi – the closing scene of the novel, the old capital of Macedon, located higher in the mountains. It features a fortress near a waterfall, and is presented as the site of many important character shifts, such as loss of virginity, murder, and transformative religious experiences.
Mieza – site of a school for Alexander and the other sons of important Macedonian military leaders. Mieza is presented as a sort of Arcadian place of refuge from the wider politics of Macedon, a place of comradeship, learning, and love.
Thrace – Macedon's neighbor to the northeast. Thrace is presented as a wild, remote region which Philip's soldiers have occupied. Even more so than Macedon, Thrace remains a rough land of feuding warlords. It is noted for the blue tattoos of its inhabitants. Thrace is where Alexander first exhibits his military bravery and leadership, and where he and Hephaestion are hardened to the gruesome realities of war.
Athens – Macedon's antagonistic neighbor to the south. Athens is represented in the novel as past its glory days and ruled by petty, squabbling demagogues. It still, however, retains an aura of great respect for both Alexander and Philip as the birthplace of Greece's high culture.
Chaeronea – site of a massive battle which decides whether Philip's military hegemony will be able to spread into the more culturally advanced states of southern Greece.
Perinthos – a former Macedonian ally to the east which wavers in its support and is invaded by Philip. It is here that Alexander and Philip bond over a shared love of military tactics and Alexander saves Philip's life during an attempted insurrection.
Epiros – Macedon's neighbour to the west. Epiros is presented as a well-run, prosperous region in alliance with Macedon. It is the homeland of Olympias, who is daughter and sister of two of its successive kings. The marriage of Olympias to Philip as his chief wife ensures that Epiros remains friendly to Macedon, so that Philip can concentrate his army on northern, southern, and eastern expansion.
Persian Empire – though it is never visited in the novel, Persia is a looming presence affecting everything that happens in Macedon and its neighbors. It is the eventual goal of both Alexander and Philip to conquer Persia and its Great King. Persia is the old enemy invader of Greece and a land of fabled, opulent wealth.
Phocis – though it is never visited in the novel, Phocis serves as the pretext for Philip to become involved in the military disputes of southern Greece. Phocis' sacrilegious cultivation of fields meant to be reserved as holy land (and the resulting wealth which threatens their neighbours) is the impetus for the Third Sacred War.


=== Main characters ===
Alexander – The central character of the novel, followed from the age of 4 until his taking power over Macedon.
Philip – King of Macedon and Alexander's legal father. Alexander and Philip have an intense love-hate relationship. A central theme of the novel is whether Philip, who is often portrayed as arrogant, brutish, and crass, deserves the loyalty and love of Alexander. This is often tied to whether or not Philip is also Alexander's  biological father.
Olympias – Alexander mother and Philip's chief wife. She is portrayed as a strong-willed survivor who uses emotional blackmail and a system of spies to protect her interests against her all-powerful husband. Through the novel, Alexander's relationship towards his mother changes from unswerving devotion to a more restrained loyalty.
Hephaestion – Teenaged friend of Alexander who becomes his unswervingly loyal life partner.
Pausanias – Bodyguard and lover of Philip, later elevated to captain of the bodyguards as compensation for a humiliating attack by a rival.
Demosthenes – Athenian political orator, diplomat, and soldier, portrayed as arrogant, selfish, and venal  (The strongly negative portrayal of Demosthenes in the novel has been one of the main criticisms leveled against it). Demosthenes is the most visible antagonist against Philip's drive for empire.
Phoinix – Alexander's pedagogue, who provides him emotional solace and imaginative inspiration.
Leonidas – Olympias' uncle and Alexander's great-uncle. Leonidas serves as regent of Macedon during one of Philip's absences and seeks to toughen Alexander into an obedient, hard soldier.
Attalos – One of Philip's generals. Early in the novel he attacks Pausanias as part of a romantic quarrel of honor. Later in the novel, he makes a bid for power by trying to replace Olympias with his own niece as mother of the next king.
Antipatros – Loyal regent during one of Philip's absences, Antipatros helps train Alexander in the civic demands of state administration. He is also the father of Kassandros, who is a minor villain in the story.


=== Chapter One ===
The novel begins with the memorable opening line, "The child was wakened by the knotting of the snake's coils about his waist." Alexander is four years old and his younger sister Kleopatra is still in a cradle. The snake which encircles him is a semi-tame house snake who has escaped from the room of Alexander's mother, Olympias. Alexander sneaks past his nanny, Hellanike, and into his mother's room to return it. The relationship between Alexander and Olympias is portrayed as affectionate and intimate, but he is already aware at a young age that she lies to her husband, Alexander's purported father, Philip, the king of Macedon.
Philip, who had been heard earlier singing and yelling drunkenly in the main hall, bursts into the cozy scene & embarrasses Alexander with his nakedness and verbal abuse of Olympias. Olympias responds with mockery of Philip's other lovers, his period as a hostage in Thebes, and the insinuation that Alexander is in fact not Philip's biological son. Phililp throws Alexander from the room, where he is comforted by a guard. Alexander claims he will murder his father when he's old enough, but the guard warns that it would be a sin, and tells Alexander that being abused will toughen him up for the aristocratic male rites of passage of murdering a wild boar and murdering a man. The guard also tells Alexander the tale of Heracles killing snakes as a baby, starting a lifelong fascination with Heracles in Alexander.
Alexander's family is further revealed when, three years later, he goes on a horse ride with a soldier he admires, Ptolemy. Alexander has heard around the barracks that Ptolemy is also the son of Philip, but Ptolemy explains to Alexander why this should not be repeated, as Ptolemy's mother is married to someone other than Philip. To overcome Alexander's great disappointment, Ptolemy becomes a blood brother with him.
Returning to the stables, Alexander sees horses dressed in the dazzling wealth of Persia. He learns that two Persian satraps who rebelled against the Great King have been given pardons and will be returning from exile in Macedon. Alexander entertains and questions the envoys who have come to bring them back, gaining useful military information because the amused envoys tell a child more than they would an adult. Alexander also flirts with the handsome youth who attends the envoys, and later dreams of riding off with him to see Persepolis after murdering a group of impudent Persian envoys.
The final sequence of Chapter One ends with Alexander allowed to join his mother in a women's rite dedicated to the god Dionysus because Alexander has not yet reached puberty.


=== Chapter Two ===
When Philip goes to war against Chalkidike, he puts Olympias' cold uncle, Leonidas of Epirus in charge as regent, and entrusts him with finding tutors for Alexander, who is now seven years old and considered ready to begin training for manhood. Leonidas forces Alexander into a Spartan lifestyle and the tutors try to tame Alexander's imagination into rote learning. Conditions are somewhat alleviated by an old family friend, Lysimachus of Acarnania, who encourages Alexander's dreams by referring to Alexander as the mythical hero Achilles and himself as  Phoinix. In his mind, Alexander equates his father with Achilles' military colleague but personal enemy, Agamemnon.
Alexander has his first meeting with Hephaestion, although it is brief and they argue.
Philip returns from war, bringing crowds of slaves with him. He also marries a woman from Thrace to seal an alliance, causing mad jealousy in Olympias. In retaliation, Olympias appears on stage in a celebratory play, something which is allowed her as a priestess of Dionysos, god of theatre, but is still considered wildly shocking since only men are supposed to appear on stage. In the gossiping crowd afterward, Alexander slashes the leg of a man who he hears insulting his mother. To atone for attacking someone without warning, Alexander sacrifices to Zeus, and believes that the god speaks directly to him during the rite.


=== Chapter Three ===
Alexander is ten years old. Going to meet with his father, he notes that his father's newest guard, Pausanias of Orestis, has the kind of looks which Philip appreciates in lovers. Philip is preparing to hear envoys from Athens, who are coming to convince him against joining a war against Phocis, because they are afraid of his increasing power spreading into southern Greece. Chief among them is Demosthenes, who attempts to molest Alexander, mistaking him for a slave. Alexander is revenged when he reveals himself as Philip's heir just as Demosthenes is about to speak. Demosthenes is also humiliated because his speech is plagiarized by another envoy, Aeschines.
Alexander befriends a young Thracian, Lambaros, living at the court as a hostage, despite the snobbery which the other Macedonians display toward him.


=== Chapter Four ===
Alexander learns eagerly from his tutors, and bemoans the fact that he must sleep when there is so much he wants to do. His music teacher, Epikrates, encourages him to perform due to his great skill on the cithara, but Philip publicly humiliates Alexander for being too good a musician. Epikrates resigns, and Alexander runs away from home. He joins a soldier on leave in a tribal feud in the uplands of Macedon, making his first murder in battle and carrying the head of the victim back to prove his manhood to his father. Alexander refuses to claim the head of a second kill because the face reminds him of his father.
Returned to the palace, Alexander is given his own retinue of young men-at-arms. At a yearly horse fair, when Alexander is away from them looking at horses, the group gossips that King Philip had taken the guard Pausanias of Orestis as a lover, but then had moved on to someone else. Pausanias had insulted the new lover in jealousy, leading the new lover to be foolishly brave in battle to try to prove himself, and resulting in his death. To get back at Pausanias, the general  Attalos, a friend of the dead man, had got Pausanias drunk and let the stable grooms gang rape him. Philip had promoted Pausanias to captain of the royal bodyguard to try to make it up to him, but had not punished Attalos, who was good general.
Alexander shows amazing courage and skill in taming the horse Bucephalus in front of the assembled chiefs at the horse fair. He re-meets Hephaestion (who he had first met six years previous) and is smitten. Alexander realizes that while talking with Hephaestion, he had forgotten all about running to tell the news of the new horse to his mother, the first time this has happened when he had big news to tell. Alexander burns a great deal of Persian incense to Heracles at a rite and is told by his great-uncle Leonidas not to be so wasteful of Persian riches until he is master of the lands where they grow, a sentiment which Alexander takes to heart.


=== Chapter Five ===
Alexander is nearly 15 and is studying the military histories of Xenophon. When they are hiding out together on a rooftop, Alexander convinces Hephaestion to climb to a dangerously high pinnacle. Hephaestion, who has become completely infatuated, likens Alexander to Zeus, and himself to Semele, realizing that a relationship with Alexander will always involve danger.
Philip leaves to install Alexandros, Olympias' brother, as the new king of Epirus, placing the loyal Antipatros as regent of Macedon. Alexander receives his new tutor, Aristotle, who sets up a school for Alexander and the sons of Philip's generals at  Mieza. Among the comrades are Hephaestion, who is now accepted as Alexander's "shadow" by everyone, Ptolemy, Harpalos, Philotas, and Kassandros, whom Alexander does not like, but he must be included because he is the heir of the loyal regent Antipatros. At one point, they watch a play about Achilles and Patroclus, which further inspires the bond between Alexander and Hephaestion.
After some time at the school at Mieza, Alexander and his closest comrades are called to join Philip in besieging a fort. A military escort is led by Kleitos, brother of Alexander's former nanny, Hellanike. Alexander fights with great bravery, and interacts personally with the soldiers, earning their admiration. After the fall of the fort, he rescues a woman whose baby has been murdered, and whom Kassandros was attempting to rape. In an ensuing fight, the woman nearly kills Kassandros, and he is packed off home in disgrace. Alexander visits his boyhood friend, the former Thracian hostage Lambaros, on the return trip.
Back at school, the young men are shocked to hear of the torture and death of Hermias of Atarneus, a friend of Aristotle and loyal ally of Macedon, under arrest in Persia. Aristotle refers to all Persians as barbarians in anger, an insult which Alexander refuses to believe. Meanwhile, Philip deposes Kersobelptes of Thrace.
Alexander's family is reunited at the springtime Dionysia, held at the old capital at Aigai. His mother is jealous that Alexander and Philip have now bonded through their common passion for war. Caught up in the heterosexual furor surrounding the Dionysia, Alexander flirts with a serving woman, Gorgo, but later comes upon his father having sex with her. On the day of the festival, he watches the secret rites of the women on the mountaintop, although it is forbidden, and sees his mother murder Gorgo in her role as priestess of Dionysos. Sick with shame for having watched something forbidden, Alexander reasons that his mother has the right to wage war in the way of women just as his father does in the way of men, and that Olympias has actually killed far fewer people than Philip. Hephaestion comforts Alexander after the shock, and is relieved that Alexander did not have sex with any of the women returning from the mountain rites, as many of their friends did.


=== Chapter Six ===
The next spring, Alexander and Hephaestion finally have sex. It is something which Hephaestion has been longing for, but it leaves Alexander distant because, like sleep, it reminds him that he is mortal. When they return to the capital from school, the circle of men around Alexander are noticed to have taken up the southern Greek fashion of shaving, something which Philip views with distaste. Nonetheless, he leaves Alexander as regent when he goes off to war against Perinthos and Byzantion.
As regent, Alexander practices military skills himself and studiously trains the soldiers left to him, making them ready when he puts down a rebellion in Thrace. He is aided by his childhood friend, Lambaros, who knows the local terrain. Upon driving off the rebels, Alexander founds the city of Alexandropolis Maedica and then joins his father against Perinthos. There, he saves his father's life but Philip, ashamed, pretends to have been unconscious and to not remember it, losing some of the loyalty he had earned from Alexander in their shared battle plans.
On his return to the capital, Alexander is pressured by his mother, who is jealous of Hephaestion's influence, to engage in heterosexuality. He is kind to a hetaira at a party, but goes no further than kissing her gently. His mother then has a young woman smuggled into his room at night. Realising that the woman will be punished if she does not prove she has lost her virginity, and wanting his mother off his back, Alexander has sex with her. The next morning he sends the woman back to his mother with an expensive pin which Olympias had told Alexander to save for his bride someday, and the message that from now on he will choose his own lovers.


=== Chapter Seven ===
Philip decides that southern Greece must be invaded. Alexander is put in charge of a feint against Illyria to make the southern Greeks unprepared. Back at Pella, he questions his mother as to who is his biological father, but the novel leaves the answer a secret. Athens and Thebes ally against Philip. Sparta remains uninvolved. The Athenian army and the Sacred Band of Thebes are destroyed, with Alexander's courage and tactical skill making him a hero to the army. Philip's hegemony is recognised. Alexander represents Philip in Athens, where he is insulted when someone tries to offer him service from an enslaved sex worker. His blood brother and friend Ptolemy, however, takes up with the Athenian hetaira Thaïs.
On the way back to Pella, Philip's entourage stays at the castle of  Attalos, the general who had years before planned the gang rape of Pausanias of Orestis, the chief of Philip's bodyguard. Alexander is shocked that his father is insulting Pausanias by making him stay the night at the home of his former rapist, but Ptolemy points out that the king has much else to think about and has probably put the event long out of mind. Pausanias does not eat or drink the entire time they are lodged at the home of Attalos.
Attalos gains another enemy in Olympias when it is announced that Philip will be marrying Attalos' niece. The marriage threatens Olympias even more than Philip's previous marriages because a son born to this wife would be completely Macedonian, and might be considered a better heir than Olympias' own son, Alexander. Alexander goes along with the wedding until Attalos prays that his niece will produce a "lawful, true-born heir" which Alexander takes as an insult and threat. He hurls a cup at Attalos' head, a huge offence against a host, then goes with his mother into exile in her native Epirus. Along the route of their flight, they take refuge at the house of Pausanias' wife. In Epirus, Alexander consults the oracle of Dodona, under the auspices of three priestesses reminiscent of the Moirai, and is given the answer of "yes" to two questions which the novel leaves a secret.


=== Chapter Eight ===
Through the mediation of Demaratos, Alexander and Olympias return to Macedon, but there is now a clear faction which supports them, and a second faction which supports Attalos. Philotas, one of the young men in Alexander's circle, is recruited by his father, the general Parmenion, to spy on Alexander for Philip. Olympias' own spies learn that Philip plans to marry Arridaios, the developmentally disabled son of a minor wife, off to the daughter of a ruler on the edge of the Persian Empire. Convinced that the prestigious marriage is meant as a slight to him, Alexander proposes himself to the foreign ruler as an alternate bridegroom through the secret negotiations of Thettalos, an admiring actor.
When he learns that Alexander has gone behind his back, Philip exiles several of the men who helped in the plot, including Ptolemy, whom Philip acknowledges to be his biological son. Hephaestion is not exiled, but is threatened with death if Alexander ever again commits an act seen as treasonous. Thettalos is brought before Philip in chains, and Alexander is forced to plead for his life.
Fed up with Olympias, Philip makes plans to marry her daughter, Kleopatra, off to Olympias' brother, the current king of Epirus. This will allow Philip to divorce Olympias while still retaining a marriage bond to the king of Epirus. About the same time, captain of the bodyguard Pausanias learns that Philip has brought up mention of his former rape again, although he had promised never to do so. The internal divisions of the family begin to spread out into the network of diplomats and spies working against Philip in occupied lands. Olympias hints at a new intrigue she has developed to bolster her position, but, fearful of Philip's retribution, Alexander refuses to hear it.
Alexander and Hephaestion both look ahead to the planned invasion of Asia, reasoning that if Alexander fights well for Philip, he will get back in his good graces. And if Philip dies in battle, then the best center of power will be with the mass of the army. Alexander plans to murder Attalos in Asia. Foreign agents convince Pausanias that Alexander agrees to a plot involving the captain of the guard by making a copy of one of Alexander's rings and using it as a token of agreement.
Meanwhile, Philip invites dignitaries from all over Greece for the lavish wedding of his daughter Kleopatra to Alexandros of Epirus. He sends for an oracle from Delphi concerning his invasion of Asia and receives the seemingly positive response, "Wreathed is the bull for the altar, the end fulfilled. And the slayer too is ready." Lavish floats of gods and goddesses are built to parade into the theatre where the wedding celebration will take place, with Philip named a god in addition to the Twelve Olympians. Feeling on top of the world, Philip decides to enter the stadium without his guards.
As Pausanias helps Philip from his horse, he stabs the king, then is cut down himself by other guardsmen. Everyone in the crowd, except Olympias, panics and flees the theatre. It is hinted that she and Antipatros may have been privy to the assassination. The float holding Aphrodite, goddess of love, is toppled in the panic. Alexander takes control of the guard, setting himself in position to claim the throne by the next novel in the series, The Persian Boy.


== Literary significance and criticism ==
The novel has been criticised as an overly romanticised and sanitised portrait of Alexander, who is shown as exceptionally athletic, beautiful, charismatic, and talented, as well as relatively compassionate for his time.
Renault's portrayal of Alexander's society, however, has been noted for its historical accuracy and sound scholarship in "dealing realistically but unsensationally with the life and mores of the Hellenic world..." Gene Lyons noted in the New York Times Book Review, that, "As a historical novelist writing about the ancient world, Mary Renault has few peers."
Fire From Heaven was followed by two sequels, The Persian Boy (1972), dealing with Alexander's conquest of the Persian Empire, and Funeral Games (1981), depicting the consequences of his death.
Renault's portrayal of the demagogue Demosthenes has been observed to be unusually unsympathetic. Typically regarded as one of the great Athenian orators, Renault's Demosthenes is cowardly, self-interested and vengeful.
Renault is sometimes criticised for writing female characters who are either helpless or ruthless, or both. Daniel Mendelsohn said that both her "contemporary and the Greek novels feature unsettling depictions of bad marriages and, particularly, of nightmarishly passive-aggressive wives and mothers." Renault's unsympathetic mother characters have attracted particular attention. In this respect Fire from Heaven is typical. The two major female characters are Kleopatra (Alexander's sister) and Queen Olympias (Alexander's mother). Kleopatra's role is largely passive: Alexander has affection for her, but is not influenced by her, and Kleopatra has little control over her future - although Renault has Kleopatra feel frustration at how little control over her life she has in comparison to Alexander. Queen Olympias is more active, a power player at the Macedonian court and in Alexander's life, but a markedly unsympathetic character: an affectionate mother to Alexander, but manipulative, unstable, and - through her enthusiastic participation in Dionysiac ritual as imagined by Renault - homicidal.
Daniel Mendelsohn praises Mary Renault's transliteration of proper Greek names with 'k' rather than 'c' - Kleopatra, Boukephalas - as a stylistic choice which makes her writing more closely resemble ancient Greek script. He writes that it 'gives her pages just the right, spiky Greek look. As a result of this minute attention to stylistic detail, the novels can give the impression of having been translated from some lost Greek original.'


== References ==

The Bureau of African Affairs (AF) is part of the United States Department of State and is charged with advising the Secretary of State on matters of Sub-Saharan Africa. The bureau was established in 1958. It is headed by the Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs who reports to the Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs.


== Organization ==
The offices of the Bureau of African Affairs direct, coordinate, and supervise U.S. government activities within the region, including political, economic, consular, public diplomacy, and administrative management issues.

Office of East African Affairs – Oversees policy for the East African Region, and liaises with the U.S. Embassies in Comoros, Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Madagascar, Mauritius, Seychelles, Somalia, Tanzania, and Uganda
Office of Sudan and South Sudan - Oversees policy for the Republic of the Sudan and the Republic of South Sudan.
Office of Central African Affairs – Oversees policy for the Central African Region, and liaises with the U.S. Embassies in Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Rwanda, and São Tomé and Príncipe
Office of Southern African Affairs – Oversees policy for the South African Region, and liaises with the U.S. Embassies in Angola, Botswana, Eswatini, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Zambia, and Zimbabwe
Office of West African Affairs – Oversees policy for the West African Region, and liaises with the U.S. Embassies in Benin, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, Côte d'Ivoire, the Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, and Togo
Office of Economic Policy and Staff
Office of the Executive Director – Coordinates logistics, management, budget, and human resources for the bureau
Office of Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs – Coordinates public outreach and digital engagement, and prepares press guidance for the Department Spokesperson in the Bureau of Public Affairs
Office of Regional Peace and Security – Coordinates policy regarding the African Union and other regional multilateral and security-focused issues


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Michael L. "Mike" Fry (October 25, 1960 – November 4, 2012) was an American serial entrepreneur, entertainer, trainer and marketing expert. He was the original Happy the Hobo on the children's television series Happy's Place, and the creative mind behind and owner of Fancy Fortune Cookies.


== Entertainer ==
Mike Fry was born in Watseka, Illinois but grew up in the Huntington, Indiana area.  He was the state Tae Kwon Do champion in 1979. He began juggling at the age of fourteen, after finding out that his grandfather used to juggle dirt clods on the farm in rural Illinois. By the age of 17 he was juggling for audiences in the local area.
Fry was accepted to the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Clown College, in Venice, Florida at the age of 19, graduating in 1981. He toured with the circus for the 1981 and 1982 season. He had the honor of being trained by three of the world's four Master Clowns: Lou Jacobs, Frosty Little, and Bobby Kay. He trained in heavy object balancing, which included six-foot tables, small canoes, a twenty-five foot ladder, a running chainsaw, other people, sofas, and a television set. In 1981, he became a Guinness Book of World Records record holder as part of a group that juggled the most objects at one time.
He left Ringling Brothers in 1982 and made the transition to television, where he wrote and co-produced Happy's Place, one of America's highest-rated children's television shows, from 1982 to 1990. Happy's Place aired on Fox affiliate WFFT-TV in 207 cities for eight years. At the height of the show's popularity there was a two-year wait for tickets to the show.  He hosted a variety of guests from The Harlem Globetrotters to Jerry Mathers and Tiny Tim.
After leaving Happy's Place, Fry trained at The Second City sketch comedy group in Chicago. While in Chicago he also auditioned to play the role of Bozo the Clown, and did some writing for the show as a result.  He was also an instructor at the Illinois Juggling Institute for one year while he lived in Chicago.


== Inventor ==
During his role as Happy the Hobo, Fry became interested in inventing. In 1988 he started marketing his first viable invention, America's first gourmet flavored fortune cookies. Since 1988 the company has greatly expanded on his original concept of gourmet fortune cookies, specializing in flavored, chocolate-dipped, giant, and decorated fortune cookies.
In 1990 Fry started developing and marketing another of his inventions, the "Always There Bear". He spent twelve years developing, marketing and refining the idea, culminating in his invention being purchased by Hasbro toys in 2002. His story is featured in the book The One Minute Millionaire, by Mark Victor Hansen and Robert Allen. Fry worked with both Mark and Robert on the deal with Hasbro.
His products have been used by Donald Trump, Ozzy Osbourne, Jay Leno, Conan O'Brien, Steven Spielberg and many other noted celebrities.


== Trainer ==
In 2004 Fry joined up with his long-time friend and mentor Linda Chandler as a part of her Core Value Training Program. He used his experiences as a marketer, entrepreneur and entertainer to teach internet marketing strategies to thousands of international business owners.


== Other works ==
Prior to his death, Fry was working on publishing his own children's joke book, using jokes from his live kids' show. He had collected kids' joke books for many years, and he had a huge collection of them. Fry was also working on a book pertaining to goal-setting based around hours of interviews with adventurer and author John Goddard, who greatly influenced Fry to start his own life-list at age 23.


== Death ==
On November 4, 2012 it was announced that Mike Fry had died at the IU Medical Center in Indianapolis.  He had suffered from an immune disorder for about 12 months.  He was awaiting a liver transplant when he succumbed to the illness.


== Media appearances ==


=== Books ===
Purple Cow (on-line edition) - Seth Godin: Seth Godin chose Mike Fry's Fancy Fortune Cookies as one of the most unusual niche food companies.
The One Minute Millionaire - Mark Victor Hansen and Robert Allen: Used Mike Fry's invention and story as the basis for a fictional storyline.
Wake up and Live the Life You Love - Steven E. and Lee Beard: Featured Mike Fry's inspirational story along with that of Dr. Wayne Dyer, Mark Victor Hansen, and John Assaraf.
Be Unreasonable - Paul Lemburg: Used Mike Fry's Fancy Fortune Cookies idea as an example of an "unreasonable" breakthrough and innovative business idea.
Fortune Cookie Chronicles: Featured Fancy Fortune Cookies, and Mike Fry's invention of the gourmet fortune cookie as part of the history of the fortune cookie.


=== Magazines ===
Indiana Business Magazine: "It's No Secret: Four important business trends revealed in Indiana's Growth 100 companies"


=== Newspapers ===
1988 Herald Press "Seeking a cookie fortune."
1993 New York Newsday "Clowning Around With Cookies."
2002 Denver Daily News "Some people can't give up the fortunes."
2007 Fort Wayne Journal Gazette "Wise Crackers: Hoosier inventor adds flavor buffet to fortune cookies."
2007 Indianapolis Business Journal "Finding his fortune"


=== Television ===
QVC:  Fry appeared along with his Fancy Fortune Cookies on the show, sold out in less than three minutes.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official site
Fancy Fortune Cookies web site

The Encyclopedia Nipponica (日本大百科全書, Nihon Dai Hyakka Zensho; lit. The Japan Comprehensive Encyclopedia) is a discontinued series of encyclopedia of Japan and the Japanese people, first published by Shogakukan from 1984 to 1989 in 25 volumes. After 10 years of preparation, over 130,000 entries and 500,000 indexes were organized in alphabetical order in more than 23,000 pages. The most recent version, 1994, has 26 volumes, including the separate volumes of indexes and an auxiliary. The encyclopedia is currently out of print.


== Shogakukan and Heibonsha ==
When it was founded in 1922, Shogakukan specialized in study books and magazines for elementary school students. According to its websites, Nihon hyakka daijiten (日本百科大事典) published in 1962 was the first encyclopedia from Shogakukan. Since then, Shogakukan has continuously published encyclopedias: Sekai genshoku hyakka jiten (世界原色百科事典) in 1965, Dainihon hyakka jiten japonica (大日本百科事典ジャポニカ) in 1967, Kodomo hyakka jiten (こども百科事典) in 1970, and Banyu hyakka daijiten (万有百科大事典) in 1972 among others. Shogakukan's Encyclopedia Nipponica has been one of the major Japanese encyclopedias. The other major encyclopedia, World Encyclopedia (世界大百科事典), was published from Heibonsha. Since the foundation in 1914, Heibonsha has put emphasis on encyclopedias. Currently, World Encyclopedia holds three editions: World Encyclopedia, World Encyclopedia on DVD, and the online edition called Netto de hyakka.


== Topics ==
Over 6,000 authorities contributed articles to the Encyclopedia Nipponica. The topics ranges from social sciences, sciences, humanities, leisure, and lifestyle, emphasizing the Japanese social climate and culture. It focuses on local regions and their histories, holding 3,325 entries on Japanese place names. At the same time, it explains foreign countries, their culture, history, and society, focusing especially on their relationships with Japan.
The length of the articles varies. Some are only a paragraph, while the others are over two pages. The articles are signed. Over 50,000  images enable the users to enjoy the encyclopedia and to understand the explanation. In particular, sciences and arts articles contain graphs, charts, maps, earth satellite maps, chronological tables, pictures of the arts, and portraits.


== Special features ==
In addition to each entry, the encyclopedia contains "collaborations" where several authorities from different academic fields combine their various academic viewpoints.
The verb entries are the other feature of Encyclopedia Nipponica, which cannot be seen in conventional encyclopedias. They not only explain the simple meaning of verbs but also describe them culturally, socially, and scientifically. For instance, the entry of “walk” explains the ways and the reason for both people and animals to walk and the results of medical experiments on walking.


== Formats ==
In addition to the paper-based encyclopedia, a CD-ROM version of Encyclopedia Nipponica and DVD version were once available. Entries from the CD-ROM and DVD version totaled 380,000. They also included approximately 80 video clips, 8,000 images, 90 animations, 350 music clips, and 60 virtual reality images. However, all three versions of Encyclopedia Nipponica are out of print as of November 2005. The National Diet Library in Tokyo, Japan, holds the first and second version of Encyclopedia Nipponica.


== See also ==
Japanese encyclopedias


== References ==

Seethi Sahib Higher Secondary School is a higher secondary school in Taliparamba, Kerala, India. It was established in 1968. The school is named after K. M. Seethi, a former speaker of the Kerala Legislative Assembly. It is noted for the large number of students attending SSLC public examinations each year and their good results. According to school website, around 3,500 students currently attend. Both the high school and the higher secondary follow the state syllabus. The medium of instruction for higher secondary is English, like all higher secondary schools in the state, and for high school Malayalam and English are available as options.


== Higher Secondary Division ==
Like most of the higher secondary schools in the state, admission is through the single window online portal run by the Directorate of Higher Secondary Education. Courses offered for HSE are science and humanities. Good laboratory facilities, infrastructure and teaching are the main attracting factors for the higher secondary applications. The higher secondary block can be accessed through a separate gate available in the Taliparamba - Iritty road.


== Clubs and extra-curricular activities ==
The school won the sub-district level Youth Festival competition in five consecutive years.
The school has active units of

The Bharat Scouts and Guides
Student Police Cadet Project
National Service Scheme
Junior Red Cross


== References ==

The Mutual Party (previously the Bank Reform Party) is a de-registered minor political party in Australia.
The party has been involved in Glenn Druery's Minor Party Alliance.
The party's lead candidate for the Senate in Western Australia at the 2014 special election was Anthony Fels, who has been a Liberal (and later independent) member of the Western Australian Legislative Council, and an independent and Katter's Australian Party Senate candidate at the 2010 and 2013 federal elections, respectively.
In March 2015, the Australian Progressive Party (not to be confused with the similarly named Australian Progressives) announced that it had absorbed the Mutual Party after they agreed to join forces.
The Mutual Party was deregistered in April 2015, according to the Australian Electoral Commission.


== References ==


== External links ==
Mutual Party website


== See also ==
List of political parties in Australia

The 45th Blue Dragon Film Awards (Korean: 제45회 청룡영화상) is an annual South Korean award ceremony organized by Sports Chosun (a sister brand of The Chosun Ilbo). Hosted by Han Ji-min and Lee Je-hoon, it would be held on November 29, 2024, at KBS Hall in Yeouido, Seoul. It will be broadcast live on KBS2 and KBS YouTube channels. Nominations for 15 categories were announced on October 30, Exhuma received 12 nominations.


== Nominees and winners ==

The nominees for the awards were announced in 15 categories on October 30, 2024.


=== Films with multiple nominations and awards ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website (in Korean)

Charles Hamor Dickerson (August 1, 1937 –  February 6, 2024) was an American position coach in the National Football League and Canadian Football League and former sports radio host in Buffalo, New York.


== Early life ==
Dickerson was born in Hammond, Indiana, and raised in Wood River, Illinois. He was a three-sport athlete at Roxana High School and played football for two years at the University of Florida. After serving in the United States Marine Corps, Dickerson played as a defensive tackle for the University of Illinois.


== Career ==
Dickerson was drafted in the ninth round, 123rd overall, by the Cleveland Browns in the 1962 NFL draft.
Dickerson was the head coach for Elwood Jr/Sr High School for two seasons from 1975 to 1976 where he amassed an overall record of 12–8. In December 1976, he accepted the head coach position for the University of Olivet as the successor to Bob Friedlund who resigned after a winless 0–9 season. After nine days as head coach, Dickerson resigned to become an assistant coach for the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League (CFL).
Dickerson served one year as defensive coordinator for the Minnesota Golden Gophers football team in 1983. Amid a disastrous 1–10 season, Dickerson's defense gave up 518 points in 11 games; Marv Levy later quipped: "Think how many they would've scored if he wasn't a defensive genius."
Despite Levy's later low opinion of Dickerson, Levy would hire Dickerson as a defensive assistant for the Bills shortly after Levy assumed head coaching duties in 1986. Former coaches who employed Dickerson, and players who played under him, considered him "a buffoon" and "degrading;" Levy noted that "his idea of motivation was 'Hey, boy, get your fucking fat ass over here!'" Of the many coaches whom Levy employed during his coaching career, Dickerson left the worst lasting impression; Levy was on good terms with all of his other assistants.


=== Super Bowl XXVI controversy ===
Before Super Bowl XXVI, Dickerson mocked the Washington Redskins' famed offensive line, "The Hogs", in a television interview. Dickerson said Redskins tackle Joe Jacoby was "a Neanderthal -- he slobbers a lot, he probably kicks dogs in his neighborhood." He also said tackle Jim Lachey "has bad breath. Players will fall down without him even touching them."
Redskins coach Joe Gibbs got his hands on some tapes of Dickerson and played them at a team meeting on the night before the game, and by all accounts it was a factor in the Redskins' 37–24 thumping of the Bills.  Levy later described the interview as "the girder that brought down the building." Levy fired Dickerson three days after the game. On December 19, 1994, Levy went on his regionally syndicated weekly coach's show to explain that Dickerson's behavior, both as a position coach and as a commentator, was "destructive to the Buffalo Bills, just as what he did as a member of every coaching staff he’s ever served on(.) That’s why he’s been fired more times than a Civil War cannon.”


=== Radio and television career ===
Dickerson began his broadcast career on WGR 550 in 1993, hosting a three-hour afternoon drive-time show for almost ten years, leaving the station in 2003. In his last year on air, he was forced to share a program with Mike Schopp, who had previously been Dickerson's nemesis at crosstown rival WNSA. It was speculated in the press that WGR released Dickerson from the station because it wanted to gain the rights to Sabres hockey broadcasts, which it purchased in 2004 along with radio station WNSA. Dickerson was replaced as Schopp's co-host by Chris "Bulldog" Parker.
Dickerson also appeared on CanWest Global television's Sportsline show in Toronto for several season's as an NFL commentator.
Dickerson's provocative attitude during his coaching career carried over into his radio career, and his early career began with a "promising start" before, within a year, becoming one of the most extreme sports talk hosts on-air at the time. His on-air style was similar to hockey's Don Cherry, with The Buffalo News columnist Alan Pergament noting, in a scathing obituary he withheld several weeks to avoid the impression of speaking ill of the dead, that Dickerson "made (...) Cherry seem like Mary Poppins." Dickerson was known for his blunt and provocative opinions, and his pushing the boundaries of decency acceptable on terrestrial radio in the 1990s, regularly using language such as "crap" and "hell," occasionally invoking Nazi references, and eviscerating his former co-workers on the Bills payroll, while heaping even further scorn on the Buffalo Sabres, at the time contending for the Stanley Cup. Levy responded of Dickerson's shtick: "That's his prerogative(, but) sometimes if you don't punch back, you're gonna get punched out."  His closing catchphrase, "Who loves ya, baby?" is borrowed from Kojak .
As recently as the late 2000s, Dickerson hosted The Unofficial, Unauthorized Postgame Show after Bills games and cohosted The Bob Matthews Show Monday evenings on WHAM-AM 1180 in Rochester, New York. He returned to WGR in 2005, initially as a contributor, and then as host of the Extra Point after-show on Mondays beginning in 2007. (John Murphy later took over that time slot.) He had expressed interest in returning to Buffalo radio as late as 2021.
A similar character, "Chuck Dichter," appears in the 2002 made-for-TV movie Second String, portrayed by Jon Voight. The Super Bowl incident was also parodied (with Lucy van Pelt in the role of the Dickerson-like antagonist) in You're in the Super Bowl, Charlie Brown, in which a team of buffalo (Bisons) is subsequently clobbered by Snoopy's team after the rant.


== Personal life ==
Dickerson was married to his wife, Shirley, for over 60 years before her death due to COVID-19 in June 2020, and has an adult child (Chris) and several grandchildren.


== References ==


== External links ==
Fybush, Scott. Radio Watch Report about Sabres coach refusing to join WGR because of Dickerson bias. North East RadioWatch: February 4, 2000
Dickerson's profile, via the Internet Archive

The 2016–17 Illinois Fighting Illini women's basketball team represented University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign during the 2016–17 NCAA Division I women's basketball season. The Fighting Illini, led by fifth-year head coach Matt Bollant, played their home games at the State Farm Center as members of the Big Ten Conference. They finished the season 9–22, 3–13 in Big Ten play to finish in a four-way for 11th place. They advanced to the second round of the Big Ten women's tournament by beating Wisconsin before they lost to Purdue.
On March 14, 2017, head coach Matt Bollant was fired. He finished at Illinois with a five-year record of 61–94. On March 22, the school hired five-time Division III national champion and two-time Division III coach of the year recipient Nancy Fahey as head coach.


== Roster ==


== Schedule ==


== See also ==
2016–17 Illinois Fighting Illini men's basketball team


== References ==

Baranovka (Russian: Барановка) is the name of several  rural localities in Russia.


== Altai Krai ==
As of 2010, one rural locality in Altai Krai bears this name:

Baranovka, Altai Krai, a selo in Baranovsky Selsoviet of Zmeinogorsky District


== Astrakhan Oblast ==
As of 2010, four rural localities in Astrakhan Oblast bear this name:

Baranovka, Chernoyarsky District, Astrakhan Oblast, a selo in Chernoyarsky Selsoviet of Chernoyarsky District
Baranovka, Krasnoyarsky District, Astrakhan Oblast, a settlement in Yubileyninsky Selsoviet of Krasnoyarsky District
Baranovka, Narimanovsky District, Astrakhan Oblast, a selo in Baranovsky Selsoviet of Narimanovsky District
Baranovka, Volodarsky District, Astrakhan Oblast, a selo in Kalininsky Selsoviet of Volodarsky District


== Bryansk Oblast ==
As of 2010, three rural localities in Bryansk Oblast bear this name:

Baranovka, Karachevsky District, Bryansk Oblast, a village in Pervomaysky Selsoviet of Karachevsky District
Baranovka, Rognedinsky District, Bryansk Oblast, a village in Sharovichsky Selsoviet of Rognedinsky District
Baranovka, Zlynkovsky District, Bryansk Oblast, a village in Kozhanovsky Selsoviet of Zlynkovsky District


== Chelyabinsk Oblast ==
As of 2010, one rural locality in Chelyabinsk Oblast bears this name:

Baranovka, Chelyabinsk Oblast, a village in Shakhmatovsky Selsoviet of Chebarkulsky District


== Kaluga Oblast ==
As of 2010, four rural localities in Kaluga Oblast bear this name:

Baranovka, Babyninsky District, Kaluga Oblast, a village in Babyninsky District
Baranovka, Khvastovichsky District, Kaluga Oblast, a village in Khvastovichsky District
Baranovka, Maloyaroslavetsky District, Kaluga Oblast, a village in Maloyaroslavetsky District
Baranovka, Yukhnovsky District, Kaluga Oblast, a village in Yukhnovsky District


== Kemerovo Oblast ==
As of 2010, one rural locality in Kemerovo Oblast bears this name:

Baranovka, Kemerovo Oblast, a selo in Shcheglovskaya Rural Territory of Kemerovsky District


== Kirov Oblast ==
As of 2010, one rural locality in Kirov Oblast bears this name:

Baranovka, Kirov Oblast, a settlement under the administrative jurisdiction of the Town of Kirs in Verkhnekamsky District


== Kostroma Oblast ==
As of 2010, one rural locality in Kostroma Oblast bears this name:

Baranovka, Kostroma Oblast, a village in Shangskoye Settlement of Sharyinsky District


== Krasnodar Krai ==
As of 2010, two rural localities in Krasnodar Krai bear this name:

Baranovka, Khostinsky City District, Sochi, Krasnodar Krai, a selo in Baranovsky Rural Okrug under the jurisdiction of Khostinsky City District of the City of Sochi
Baranovka, Lazarevsky City District, Sochi, Krasnodar Krai, a selo in Volkovsky Rural Okrug under the jurisdiction of Lazarevsky City District of the City of Sochi


== Kurgan Oblast ==
As of 2010, one rural locality in Kurgan Oblast bears this name:

Baranovka, Kurgan Oblast, a village in Karasinsky Selsoviet of Yurgamyshsky District


== Lipetsk Oblast ==
As of 2010, three rural localities in Lipetsk Oblast bear this name:

Baranovka, Dankovsky District, Lipetsk Oblast, a village in Balovnevsky Selsoviet of Dankovsky District
Baranovka, Izmalkovsky District, Lipetsk Oblast, a village in Domovinsky Selsoviet of Izmalkovsky District
Baranovka, Yeletsky District, Lipetsk Oblast, a village in Fedorovsky Selsoviet of Yeletsky District


== Republic of Mordovia ==
As of 2010, two rural localities in the Republic of Mordovia bear this name:

Baranovka, Atyuryevsky District, Republic of Mordovia, a village in Atyuryevsky Selsoviet of Atyuryevsky District
Baranovka, Krasnoslobodsky District, Republic of Mordovia, a village in Starogoryashinsky Selsoviet of Krasnoslobodsky District


== Moscow Oblast ==
As of 2010, one rural locality in Moscow Oblast bears this name:

Baranovka, Moscow Oblast, a village in Akatyevskoye Rural Settlement of Kolomensky District


== Nizhny Novgorod Oblast ==
As of 2010, one rural locality in Nizhny Novgorod Oblast bears this name:

Baranovka, Nizhny Novgorod Oblast, a settlement in Naryshkinsky Selsoviet of Voznesensky District


== Oryol Oblast ==
As of 2010, one rural locality in Oryol Oblast bears this name:

Baranovka, Oryol Oblast, a village in Koshelevsky Selsoviet of Sverdlovsky District


== Perm Krai ==
As of 2010, two rural localities in Perm Krai bear this name:

Baranovka, Kungursky District, Perm Krai, a village in Kungursky District
Baranovka, Yelovsky District, Perm Krai, a village in Yelovsky District


== Pskov Oblast ==
As of 2010, two rural localities in Pskov Oblast bear this name:

Baranovka, Gdovsky District, Pskov Oblast, a village in Gdovsky District
Baranovka, Pskovsky District, Pskov Oblast, a village in Pskovsky District


== Ryazan Oblast ==
As of 2010, two rural localities in Ryazan Oblast bear this name:

Baranovka, Mikhaylovsky District, Ryazan Oblast, a village in Malinkovsky Rural Okrug of Mikhaylovsky District
Baranovka, Miloslavsky District, Ryazan Oblast, a village in Gornyatsky Rural Okrug of Miloslavsky District


== Saratov Oblast ==
As of 2010, two rural localities in Saratov Oblast bear this name:

Baranovka, Atkarsky District, Saratov Oblast, a selo in Atkarsky District
Baranovka, Volsky District, Saratov Oblast, a selo in Volsky District


== Smolensk Oblast ==
As of 2010, three rural localities in Smolensk Oblast bear this name:

Baranovka, Monastyrshchinsky District, Smolensk Oblast, a village in Lyubavichskoye Rural Settlement of Monastyrshchinsky District
Baranovka, Pochinkovsky District, Smolensk Oblast, a village in Klimshchinskoye Rural Settlement of Pochinkovsky District
Baranovka, Tyomkinsky District, Smolensk Oblast, a village in Medvedevskoye Rural Settlement of Tyomkinsky District


== Tambov Oblast ==
As of 2010, two rural localities in Tambov Oblast bear this name:

Baranovka, Petrovsky District, Tambov Oblast, a village in Volchkovsky Selsoviet of Petrovsky District
Baranovka, Tokaryovsky District, Tambov Oblast, a village in Bezukladovsky Selsoviet of Tokaryovsky District


== Tula Oblast ==
As of 2010, four rural localities in Tula Oblast bear this name:

Baranovka, Arkhangelsky Rural Okrug, Kamensky District, Tula Oblast, a village in Arkhangelsky Rural Okrug of Kamensky District
Baranovka, Sitovsky Rural Okrug, Kamensky District, Tula Oblast, a village in Sitovsky Rural Okrug of Kamensky District
Baranovka, Kimovsky District, Tula Oblast, a village in Baranovsky Rural Okrug of Kimovsky District
Baranovka, Kurkinsky District, Tula Oblast, a village in Samarskaya Volost of Kurkinsky District


== Tver Oblast ==
As of 2010, one rural locality in Tver Oblast bears this name:

Baranovka, Tver Oblast, a village in Likhoslavlsky District


== Ulyanovsk Oblast ==
As of 2010, one rural locality in Ulyanovsk Oblast bears this name:

Baranovka, Ulyanovsk Oblast, a selo in Baranovsky Rural Okrug of Nikolayevsky District


== Vladimir Oblast ==
As of 2010, one rural locality in Vladimir Oblast bears this name:

Baranovka, Vladimir Oblast, a village in Kolchuginsky District


== Volgograd Oblast ==
As of 2010, two rural localities in Volgograd Oblast bear this name:

Baranovka, Kamyshinsky District, Volgograd Oblast, a selo in Petruninsky Selsoviet of Kamyshinsky District
Baranovka, Nikolayevsky District, Volgograd Oblast, a khutor in Baranovsky Selsoviet of Nikolayevsky District

Mixed inhibition is a type of enzyme inhibition in which the inhibitor may bind to the enzyme whether or not the enzyme has already bound the substrate but has a greater affinity for one state or the other. It is called "mixed" because it can be seen as a conceptual "mixture" of competitive inhibition, in which the inhibitor can only bind the enzyme if the substrate has not already bound, and uncompetitive inhibition, in which the inhibitor can only bind the enzyme if the substrate has already bound. If the ability of the inhibitor to bind the enzyme is exactly the same whether or not the enzyme has already bound the substrate, it is known as a non-competitive inhibitor. Non-competitive inhibition is sometimes thought of as a special case of mixed inhibition. 
In mixed inhibition, the inhibitor binds to an allosteric site, i.e. a site different from the active site where the substrate binds. However, not all inhibitors that bind at allosteric sites are mixed inhibitors.
Mixed inhibition may result in either:

A decrease in the apparent affinity of the enzyme for the substrate (Km value appears to increase; 
  
    
      
        
          K
          
            m
          
          
            app
          
        
        >
        
          K
          
            m
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle K_{m}^{\text{app}}>K_{m}}
  
) -- seen in cases where the inhibitor favours binding to the free enzyme. More closely mimics competitive binding.
An increase in the apparent affinity of the enzyme for the substrate (Km value appears to decrease; 
  
    
      
        
          K
          
            m
          
          
            app
          
        
        <
        
          K
          
            m
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle K_{m}^{\text{app}}<K_{m}}
  
) -- seen in cases where the inhibitor favours binding to the enzyme-substrate complex. More closely mimics uncompetitive binding.
In either case the inhibition decreases the apparent maximum enzyme reaction rate (
  
    
      
        
          V
          
            m
            a
            x
          
          
            app
          
        
        <
        
          V
          
            m
            a
            x
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle V_{max}^{\text{app}}<V_{max}}
  
).
Mathematically, mixed inhibition occurs when the factors α and α' (introduced into the Michaelis-Menten equation to account for competitive and uncompetitive inhibition, respectively) are both greater than 1.
In the special case where α = α', noncompetitive inhibition occurs, in which case 
  
    
      
        
          V
          
            m
            a
            x
          
          
            a
            p
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle V_{max}^{app}}
  
 is reduced but 
  
    
      
        
          K
          
            m
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle K_{m}}
  
 is unaffected.  This is very unusual in practice.


== Biological examples ==
In gluconeogenesis, the enzyme cPEPCK (cytosolic phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase) is responsible for converting oxaloacetate into phosphoenolpyruvic acid, or PEP, when guanosine triphosphate, GTP, is present. This step is exclusive for gluconeogenesis, which occurs under fasting condition's due to the body's depletion of glucose. cPEPCK is known to be regulated by Genistein, an isoflavone that is naturally found in a number of plants. It was first proven that genistein inhibits the activity of cPEPCK. In a study, the presence of this isoflavone resulted in a decrease in the level of blood sugar. A lowered blood sugar level means less glucose is in the blood. If this occurs in a subject that is fasting, this is because the gluconeogenesis was inhibited, preventing increased production of glucose. The ability of genistein to lower a person's blood sugar level allows it to be referred to as an anti-diabetic property. The mechanism in which genistein inhibited the enzyme cPEPCK was further evaluated. First, cPEPCK was placed in the presence of 3-Mercaptopropionic acid, or 3-MPA, a known inhibitor of the enzyme. It was compared to the results of placing cPEPCK in the presence of genistein, which revealed that the mechanism of mixed inhibition was used to decrease cPEPCK's activity.  cPEPCK undergoes multiple configurations when catalyzing the formation of PEP. It can be either unbound, bound to GDP or bound to GTP. An experiment that studied the affinity for genistein in these different configurations was conducted. It revealed that geinstein favors binding to the cPEPCK with a bound GTP than then the enzyme with a bound GDP, which was found to be less stable.  This was because the GTP-bound cPEPCK revealed an extended binding site for genistein.  This is the same binding site as the enzyme's intended substrate, oxaloacetate while the other configurations did not do so in the presence of genistein. This provided evidence that the mechanism of inhibition of cPEPCK by genistein was a mixture of competitive and non-competitive inhibition.
A kallikrein is a type of serine protease, which cleaves peptide bonds after certain amino acids in a protein. These 15 kallikreins, KLK1 to KLK15, are found in human tissues. The ability for this molecule to cleave proteins results in the effective activation of cell surface receptors, making them crucial elements of many biological signal transduction pathways, and its amplification through cascades. This family of serine proteases is often a biomarker to diseases, and therefore, have become a target for inhibition. Inhibition of these kallikreins results in possible therapy for diseases such as metastatic cancer or Alzheimer's disease. Fukugetin, or (+)-morelloflavone, is a type of plant biflavonoid isolated from Garcinia brasiliensis. After isolating fukugetin, it was placed with KLK1, KLK2, KLK3, KLK4, KLK5, KLK6, and KLK7 in varying concentrations. This allowed for the analysis of enzyme kinetics through derivation of parameters Km and Vmax. Through the model of Michaelis-Menten kinetics, the Eadie-Hofstee diagram was plotted. It confirmed that fukugetin acts as a mixed inhibitor by exhibiting varying but present affinities for the enzyme alone and the enzyme-substrate complex. Analyzing through kinetics, fukugetin decreased the Vmax while it increased the Km for these KLKs. Typically, in competitive inhibition, Vmax remains the same while Km increases, and in non-competitive inhibition, Vmax decreases while Km remains the same. The change in both of these variables is another finding consistent with the effects of a mixed inhibitor.


== References ==

Niman Ranch began in the early 1970s on an 11-acre (4.5 ha) ranch in a small coastal town just north of San Francisco. They produce beef, lamb, and pork.


== History ==


=== Early years ===
In 1969, Niman Ranch was founded by rancher William Ellis "Bill" Niman, a hippie and elementary school teacher, who has since left the company. He had moved from Minnesota to the small coastal town of Bolinas, California, where he purchased a ranch for US$18,000 (equivalent to $158,000 in 2025) to begin a part-time pig, goat, and chicken farming operation. His first cattle were acquired as trade for tutoring services.


=== Growth and investment ===
By 1994, the Niman Ranch company had developed a reputation for high quality beef, but demand was exceeding the company's production capacity. That same year, Niman met Iowa pork farmer Paul Willis, and they began private labeling Willis' pork under the name "Niman-Schell".
In 1997, Niman undertook an ambitious expansion aided by management changes and several million dollars of funding. That same year, investors Rob Hurlbut and Mike McConnell became owner-partners, and the company was renamed "Niman-McConnell". Hurlbut, a former manager of coffee for Nestle, became the CEO.
Orville Schell left to become dean of the UC Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism.
Subsequently, the company also accepted funding from Pacific Community Ventures, a community development venture capitalist, itself funded in large part by the California Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS).
In the late 1990s, revenues continued to grow, from US$3 million in 1997, to US$5 million in 1998, and to US$20 million in 2000, as Niman began to sell packaged meats in grocery stores.


=== Niman becomes a national brand ===
In 1971, when Alice Waters opened her Chez Panisse restaurant, Bill Niman sent her pork for evaluation.  Waters agreed to buy pork from Niman, as well as including both the name and company logo on her menus.
In 2001, Niman entered an agreement to sell pork to the Chipotle Mexican Grill restaurant chain. To meet the demand, Paul Willis recruited hog farmers, mostly from the Midwest, to raise pigs under contract.
In 2005, Niman Ranch sold to more than 1,200 restaurants and restaurant groups.
In July 2006, Chicago-based Natural Food Holdings (part of Hilco Equity Partners) bought a major stake in the company; at the time, Niman Ranch was losing close to US$3 million a year.
In January 2009, due to bankruptcy, Niman Ranch was merged into its chief investor, Natural Food Holdings. The CEO at the time, Jeff Swain, said that the company had been making US$7,000 a week since Natural Food took over, rather than losing US$10,000 a week.


=== Bill Niman leaves Niman Ranch ===
In August 2007, Bill Niman left Niman Ranch after increasing confrontations with the new management team. Bill Niman is no longer part of the company and is forbidden to use his surname commercially.


=== Embezzlement scandal ===
In April 2010, former Niman Ranch treasurer Gary Steven Gross was indicted by a federal grand jury of defrauding the company of more than US$1.6 million.


=== Perdue buys Niman Ranch ===
In September 2015, Perdue Farms, a large privately owned poultry company, announced that it was buying Natural Food Holdings, the owner of Niman Ranch.


=== Niman Ranch becomes Certified Humane ===
Beginning September 1, 2016 (2016-09-01), all of Niman Ranch’s pork, beef, lamb, and processed products, including bacon, sausages, hot dogs, and hams, became Certified Humane by the Humane Farm Animal Care program, making them the largest multi-protein company in the U.S. to join the program.


== Animal welfare ==
Niman Ranch farmers are prohibited from using gestation crates to confine pigs.
In 2022, Niman Ranch filed an amicus curiae brief with the U.S. Supreme Court in support of California's Proposition 12, which bars the sale of products from animals raised in gestation crates, battery cages, and veal crates.
In 2024 and 2025, Perdue Farms and Niman Ranch led coalitions of pork producers and meat companies opposed to federal efforts to overturn state animal welfare laws including Proposition 12 and Massachusetts Question 3.


== See also ==
Poultry farming


== Footnotes ==


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Duxbury, Sarah (2006-08-18), "Niman Ranch beefs up for expansion", San Francisco Business Journal
Finz, Stacy (2009-02-22), "Niman Ranch founder challenges new owners", San Francisco Chronicle
"Niman Ranch, Inc". Encyclopedia of Company Histories. Retrieved 2007-01-17.
Niman, Bill; Fletcher, Janice (September 2005), The Niman Ranch Cookbook: From Farm to Table with America's Finest Meats (1st ed.), Berkeley, California: Ten Speed Press, ISBN 978-1-58008-520-5


== External links ==

Official website

Nobody's Perfect is a 1968 American comedy film about the fictional USS Bustard and the antics of her crew. It is based on the novel The Crows of Edwina Hill, written by author of western novels and former Navy man Allan R. Bosworth.


== Plot ==
After World War II, four somewhat drunk US Navy sailors steal a Buddha statue from a Japanese village, but as they row back to their ship, they hear that the Navy is cracking down against such thefts, so they hide the statue in a cave. Three of the men are transferred, but the fourth, "Doc" Willoughby, sticks around aboard the submarine rescue vessel USS Bustard, based in Japan, much to the seeming exasperation of his captain, Mike Riley. (In reality, Riley thinks well of Willoughby, despite his occasional antics, and keeps persuading him to continue reenlisting.) Over the next 12 years, Willoughby gets promoted and demoted repeatedly, but eventually rises to the rank of chief petty officer.
While on liberty ashore, Willoughby falls for a seemingly demure Japanese girl in a kimono shop, who turns out to be a US Navy Nurse Corps officer of Japanese-American descent, Lieutenant Tomiko Momoyama (Kwan). She discovers she was betrothed as a child to a Japanese man named Toshi (Shigeta), who (after seeing her) fully intends to follow tradition. Toshi's uncle turns out to be from the village from which the statue was taken. Willoughby divides his time between trying to return the statue to the village and wooing Tomiko.


== Cast ==
Doug McClure - HMC "Doc" Willoughby, USN
Nancy Kwan - LTjg Tomiko Momoyama, NC, USN
James Whitmore - LCDR Mike Riley, USN, Commanding Officer of USS Bustard
James Shigeta - Toshi O'Hara
Steve Carlson - Johnny Crane
Jill Donohue - Marci Adler
David Hartman - Boats McCafferty
Gary Vinson - Walt Purdy
George Furth - Hamner
Keye Luke - Gondai-San
Edward Faulkner as John Abelard


== References ==


== External links ==
Nobody's Perfect at IMDb
Nobody's Perfect at the TCM Movie Database (archived)

Zoran Petrović (Serbian Cyrillic: Зоран Петровић; born August 22, 1960) is a Serbian former water polo player. As a member of Yugoslavia's water polo team he won a gold medal at the 1984 Summer Olympics.


== See also ==
Yugoslavia men's Olympic water polo team records and statistics
List of Olympic champions in men's water polo
List of Olympic medalists in water polo (men)
List of world champions in men's water polo
List of World Aquatics Championships medalists in water polo


== References ==


== External links ==
Zoran Petrović at Olympics.com
Zoran Petrović at Olympedia
Zoran Petrović at InterSportStats

Jan Kleczyński (8 June 1837 – 15 September 1895) was a Polish pianist, composer, journalist, and chess master.
Born into a Polish noble family in Janiewicze, Volhynia (then Russian Empire), he graduated from a conservatory of music in Paris (1855–1862) and then played several pianist concerts in France. In 1866, he returned to Poland to live in Warsaw.
He lectured and published on the interpretation of the works of Frédéric Chopin. His work in this field was (he claimed) endorsed by pupils and friends of Chopin's, including Marcelina Czartoryska, Camilla O'Meara and Georges Mathias, and by Natalia Janotha, Princess Czartoryska's pupil, who translated some of his lectures for English publication. 
He came 2nd, behind Szymon Winawer, in the first Warsaw City Chess Championship in 1868, and came 3rd, after Józef Żabiński and Artur Popławski, in the second Warsaw Championship in 1884.
Jan Kleczyński Sr. wrote a weekly chess column for Tygodnik Ilustrowany  (1859–1884), and Kurier Warszawski (1877–1895). His son Jan Kleczyński Jr. continued his work in 1897–1939.


== Publications about Chopin ==
J. Kleczyński, Frédéric Chopin: De L'Interprétation de ses Oeuvres – Trois Conférences faites a Varsovie (The Interpretation of the Works of Frederic Chopin - Three Conferences held at Warsaw) (Félix Mackar, Paris 1880). [1]
J. Kleczyński, Chopin's Greater Works (Preludes, Ballads, Nocturnes, Polonaises, Mazurkas): How they should be understood (including Chopin's Notes for a 'Method of Methods') translated by Natalie Janotha  (William Reeves, London: Charles Scribner's Sons, New York, no date (1st Edn c. 1895, 2nd c. 1900)). (Kleczynski's last Lectures, delivered at Warsaw in 1883.)


== Selected Compositions ==
Carillon (Chime of Bells) for organ
Variations on theme "O, mein lieber Augustin" for 2 violins
22 Variations for Violin & Viola, op. 3
6 String Trios, op. 4


== References ==

I Belong to the Zoo is a Filipino indie pop rock band which started as a solo folk project by Argee Guerrero. After the success of their debut studio album, Guerrero expanded the project into a band with Simon Clariza and Lee De Veyra on guitars, Gere Guerrero on bass, and Ow Owyong on drums. The band has more than three hundred million total Spotify streams, averaging 1.2 million monthly listeners.
Associated acts of the band include Mayonnaise, Reese Lansangan, Moira Dela Torre, Gabba Santiago, Clara Benin, Paolo Tabuena of Runway Crimes, and Tonight We Sleep. Tabuena is a frequent collaborator of the band, and has directed the music video of their song "Paumanhin". Guerrero is also the vocalist and guitarist of the band Tonight We Sleep.


== History ==


=== Performing solo, 2002–2007 ===
As a grade 7 student, Guerrero was exposed to live rock performances, which inspired him to pursue a career in music.
Guerrero began performing solo acoustic shows and using his own name, but found it challenging as he perceived the use of his own name as boastful. He then performed under the stage name Fireplace Letters.
By 2007, Guerrero stopped performing solo and went on to form the band Tonight We Sleep.


=== Tonight We Sleep, 2007–present ===
Guerrero, Ton Vergel de Dios (guitar), Rex Ferriols (bass) and Paolo Owyong (drums) formed the band Tonight We Sleep in 2007. Guerrero and Owyong served as songwriters for the band. 


=== I Belong to the Zoo, the solo project, 2014–2018 ===
In 2014, Guerrero started a solo musical career as he felt that some of the songs that he wrote are too mellow and emotional for Tonight We Sleep. Guerrero said that he incorporates his personal experience in the songs for I Belong to the Zoo, which is not the case for the songs he wrote for Tonight We Sleep.
The name I Belong to the Zoo came from a parody of Happy Birthday to You with the lyrics, “Happy birthday to you, I belong to the zoo” which Guerrero used to serenade his then-girlfriend. Guerrero further explained that the phrase described himself in a nutshell saying, "The name kind of just stuck [...] As a kid, I was teased for the way I look. ‘I belong to the zoo’ was my way of owning it.”
In 2017, I Belong to the Zoo released its self-titled debut album.


=== I Belong to the Zoo, the band, 2018–present ===
After the success of the first album, I Belong to the Zoo then expanded to a five-member band which is now composed of Guerrero (vocals and guitar), Owyong (drums), Simon Clariza (guitar), Lee De Veyra (guitar), and Gerald Guerrero (bass).
After testing positive for COVID-19 in August 2020, Guerrero advised his fans to stay home and wear masks properly. He was able to recover within the same month. Along with the news of his recovery, he released a cover of Taking Back Sunday's "MakeDamnSure" with Tabuena and Paolo Owyong.
In 2021, the band released its second studio album, Kapiling.
In 2024, the band released its third studio album, afteryou.


== Musical style and influences ==
I Belong to the Zoo's music has been described as folk, indie rock,  and currently, pop rock. It was described as in the same musical territory of Keaton Henson, William Fitzsimmons, Dallas Green, and Damien Rice. Guerrero further explained that he listened to lots of Rice's music which became the main influence for I Belong to the Zoo. However, according to Guerrero, his music influences are mostly OPM rock bands such as Greyhoundz, Slapshock, and Quezo.
When it comes to songwriting, Guerrero cites Dashboard Confessional as a key influence, particularly how the vocalist Chris Carraba performed in their MTV Unplugged 2.0 live album.


== Band members ==
Argee Guerrero – lead vocals, guitars
Simon Clariza – guitars
Lee De Veyra – guitars
Gere Guerrero – bass
Paolo "Ow" Owyong – drums


== Discography ==


=== Albums ===
I Belong to the Zoo (Self-released, 2017)
Kapiling (Self-released, 2021)
afteryou. (Self-released, 2024)


=== Singles ===


==== As lead artist ====


==== As featured artist ====


=== In other media ===
In 2017, the songs "Porter", "Ruin" (with Reese Lansangan), and "Pity Party" appeared in  the TV5 series, Forever Sucks.
In 2019, "Sana" appeared in the film Open.
In 2021, the WeTV series Pasabuy used "Balang Araw", "In an Instant", and "Pansamantala".


== Awards and nominations ==


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
I Belong to the Zoo at IMDb
Cornerstone Entertainment

This is a list of restaurants in the city of New Orleans, Louisiana, US.


== Current ==

Acamaya
Angelo Brocato's
Antoine's
Arnaud's
Ayu Bakehouse
Breads On Oak
Brennan Family Restaurants
Brennan's
Broussard's
Café du Monde
Café Reconcile
Camellia Grill
Central Grocery
Clancy's
Commander's Palace
Dakar NOLA
Dickie Brennan's Steakhouse
Domilise's Restaurant
Dong Phuong Oriental Bakery
Dooky Chase’s Restaurant
Emeril's
Galatoire's
Hansen's Sno-Bliz
Hungry Eyes
Lagniappe Bakehouse
MaMou
Morning Call Coffee Stand
Mr. B's Bistro
Pat O'Brien's Bar
Pêche Seafood Grill
La Petite Grocery
Ruth's Chris Steak House
Saint Claire
Saint-Germain
Snug Harbor (jazz club)
Willie Mae's Scotch House
Vaucresson's Creole Cafe & Deli
Zasu


== Defunct ==
Creole Kosher Kitchen
K-Paul's Louisiana Kitchen
Upperline Restaurant


== See also ==
List of Michelin-starred restaurants in the American South


== References ==

Albert Love Patterson (January 27, 1894 – June 18, 1954) was an American politician and attorney in Phenix City, Alabama. He was assassinated outside his law office shortly after he had won the Democratic nomination for Alabama Attorney General on a platform of reforming the rife corruption and vice in Phenix City.


== Early life ==
Albert Love Patterson was born in the New Site community in Tallapoosa County sometime between 1891 and 1897, depending on what source is used. According to his driver's license at the time of his death, his date of birth was January 27, 1894. He was the son of Mary Green (Sorrell) and Delona Patterson, and grew up on a farm with seven siblings. He left Alabama as a teenager to seek a better life. He eventually settled in East Texas, working as a day laborer on farms and oil fields.
In Texas, Patterson joined the Third Texas Infantry, earning a commission as a second lieutenant. He began dating Agnes Benson of Colbert County, Ala., and they married on July 14, 1917. In July 1918, Patterson deployed to France as an officer with the 36th Infantry Division. In France, Patterson was seriously wounded near Saint-Étienne-à-Arnes.  For his service, France awarded him the Croix de Guerre with a silver gilt star.
Patterson spent a lengthy convalescence after he was discharged before he returned to his native Alabama to attend college. He earned a teacher's certificate from what is now Jacksonville State University in 1921 and served as a high school principal in both Clay County and Coosa County. He completed his bachelor's degree in history from the University of Alabama in 1926, graduating Phi Beta Kappa. He would go on to earn his law degree in just one year from Cumberland University's law school in Lebanon, Tennessee.
After he opened law practices in Opelika and Alexander City, he would settle in Phenix City in 1933.


== Political career ==
Patterson began his political career in 1937 as a member of the Phenix City Board of Education. By 1940, he was also chairman of the Russell County Draft Board. In 1946, he was elected to the Alabama State Senate, where he served from 1947 to 1951 and helped introduce several important bills, including the Wallace-Cater Act, which allowed the use of state and municipal bonds to finance industrial plants, and the Trade School Act, which formed many of Alabama's trade schools.
In the early 1950s, Patterson became involved with the Russell Betterment Association (RBA), which was formed to combat the rampant vice and corruption occurring in Phenix City and Russell County. That involvement resulted in Patterson's office being set ablaze in 1952. The RBA had been thwarted electing its candidates at the local level and so it decided to nominate candidates for statewide office. Since Patterson had held a Senate seat, he was seen as the perfect candidate for the office of attorney general.
He obtained a plurality in the 1954 Democratic primary and staged a runoff in May with Lee "Red" Porter of Gadsden. In the runoff, early election results saw Patterson gain a seemingly-insurmountable lead. That allegedly led Porter's Phenix City supporters to buy and to steal votes throughout the state to attempt to keep Patterson from victory. The results continued going back and forth until June 10, when the executive committee of the Alabama Democratic Party declared Patterson as the winner.


== Assassination ==

On the evening of June 18, 1954, Patterson was working in his law office in the Coulter Building in Phenix City. As he left at about 9 p.m., he walked to his car, which was parked in an alley off Fifth Avenue next to the Elite Cafe. An unidentified assailant walked up to him, pushed a gun in his mouth, and shot him three times. One cartridge was found wedged in an opening, where two or three front teeth had been knocked out. Patterson was well aware that his life was in danger, commenting just one night earlier to a church group, "I have only a 100-to-1 chance of ever being sworn in as attorney general."


== Aftermath and legacy ==
Reaction from the state was swift. Within weeks, Governor Gordon Persons declared martial law in the city, effectively giving the Alabama National Guard the law enforcement duties in the city and the county. The state sent special prosecutors from Montgomery to replace the local judiciary.
Within six months, the Phenix City machine was dismantled. A special grand jury in Birmingham handed down 734 indictments against local law enforcement officers, elected officials, and local business owners connected to organized crime. Three officials were specifically indicted for Patterson's murder: Chief Deputy Sheriff Albert Fuller, Circuit Solicitor Arch Ferrell, and Attorney General Si Garrett. Of the three, only Fuller was convicted; he was sentenced to life imprisonment but was released after 10 years. Fuller died within the same year from injuries sustained in a fall and claimed his innocence until his dying day. Ferrell was acquitted and Garrett was never brought to trial, as he was convalescing in a mental institution for most of the year after Patterson's murder.
Patterson's son, John Malcolm Patterson, assumed the Democratic nomination for attorney general; he won and took office in 1955. In 1958, John Patterson was elected as Alabama governor, running on a platform of fighting organized crime and public corruption.


== Honors and awards ==

Croix de Guerre.
A memorial statue of Patterson stands on the grounds of the Alabama State Capitol in Montgomery.


== See also ==

List of assassinated American politicians
Organized crime
Corruption
Hugh A. Bentley – founded the Russell Betterment Association
Propaganda Due – Criminal organization with a structure similar to corruption in Phenix City.
1954 Guatemalan coup d'état - Event that started the same day Patterson was assassinated.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Atkins, Ace. Wicked City. Novelization of the events surrounding Patterson's assassination and the ensuing cleanup of Phenix City.
Barnes, Margaret Anne. The Tragedy and Triumph of Phenix City, Alabama. Chronicles the factual events leading up to the murder of Albert Patterson.
Grady, Alan. When Good Men Do Nothing: The Assassination of Albert Patterson. ISBN 0-8173-1141-6. Chronicles the events leading to and following the murder.
Strickland, Edwin; Wortsman, Gene (1955). "Phenix City". Provides an accurate account, from eyewitnesses, of the events of the day.
The Phenix City Story (1955). Biopic film noir dramatization directed by Phil Karlson surrounding Patterson's life and death.


== External links ==
"Albert Patterson". Find a Grave. Retrieved September 3, 2010.

Denmark and Somaliland have direct bilateral ties as well as an office functioning as a diplomatic outpost for bilateral ties between the two political entities that is located within Somaliland's capital. Danish financial support has been crucial in the development of Somaliland in the 2010s due to their involvement in the "Somaliland Development Fund". Denmark recognizes the region of Somaliland as part of Somalia and discouraged other nations in December 2025 from recognizing it.


== History ==


=== 1990s ===
The Danish, while not initially directly interacting with the Republic of Somaliland, pursued a policy against Somali piracy in the area with remarkable results that directly influenced the ability "to collect taxes and deliver basic services, as well as a markedly strengthened crisis response and handling of internally persons" in both the Republic's domain and in the area of Puntland.


=== 2010s ===
In 2012 Denmark was the first western nation to create a bilateral program office in Somaliland. The Danish Minister for Development Corporation, Christian Friis Bach, commented how the opening of the diplomatic office was a step towards the development of "fragile states" around the world, praising the local administration for their development and management of the area. The minister also added that 112 million Danish kroner would be spent over the next four years in Somaliland to develop the area, fund the local administration's efforts and build a more "stable Somalia". At the same time, the "Somaliland Development Fund" was created and Denmark, as well as Norway, became the main funders of the project. The project was crucial to Somaliland's development in the 2010s. Funds continued even after the four-year deadline for the following years through the SDF. As of currently, the project allowed "1,4 million citizens to get access to over 11 million liters of water per day, built over 150 km of roads, and supported climate-smart agriculture through soil/water conservation on over 2,500 hectares of land."
Following 2016, relations increased in intensity, and in 2017 Danish ambassador Mette Knudsen directly met the president of Somaliland as to strengthen diplomatic and economic relations between the two political entities.


=== 2020s ===
In 2020 after the delay of the 2020 Somalilander elections, later moved to 2021, the Danish strengthened its diplomatic presence within Somaliland, with a Danish ambassador sent by Hargeisa's office meeting the Somaliland's president and the local opposition parties to discuss the delay. In the 2024–2028 framework paper released by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Denmark emphasized that danish presence in Somaliland will continue for the years to come and that it will only strengthen as to protect the local "relatively stable" political reality and prevent any external non-western actors from influencing Somaliland, with Denmark's goal being to significantly impact Somaliland's own policies.
A diplomatic incident between Somalia and Denmark ensued over Somaliland when the Danish ambassador that operates within Somaliland responded to a British diplomat remarking to him that he was treating Somaliland as a country with a firm "We are used to it". The ambassador, Steen Sonne Andersen, was then called upon by Somalia's minister of foreign affairs, Ahmed Moallim Fiqi, for a meeting in which he confirmed Denmark's support for the "One Somalia policy" and Somalia's territorial integrity. Denmark later confirmed this position once again on 29 December 2025 in an emergency session called by the UN Security Council following Israel's recognition of Somaliland, in which, the Danish UN ambassador stated that the recognition had set a "dangerous precedent" and warned against recognising Somaliland.


== Bibliography ==

Īve parish (Latvian: Īves pagasts) is an administrative unit of Talsi Municipality in the Courland region of Latvia. The parish center is located in Tiņģere.


== Towns, villages and settlements of Īve parish ==
Dūmciems
Grodnieki
Īve
Kalnmuiža
Ķurbe
Ozolmuiža
Silmuiža
Silciems
Tiņģere


== See also ==
Tiņģere Manor


== References ==

Syromyatnikov (Russian: Сыромятников) is a Russian occupational masculine surname originating from the word syromyatnik, meaning a buckskin leather dresser; its feminine counterpart is Syromyatnikova. It may refer to the following notable people:

Anastasia Syromyatnikova (1915–1997), Yakut writer
Vladimir Syromyatnikov (1933–2006), Russian space scientist


== References ==

Adalberto Pereira dos Santos (11 April 1905 – 2 April 1984) was a Brazilian general and politician.
A veteran of the Brazilian Expeditionary Force during World War II, he served as the Army Chief of Staff during Costa e Silva's presidency and then headed the Superior Military Court.
He was born to Portuguese settler parents. His father emigrated from Ponte de Lima in Northern Portugal in 1898 and owned a cattle ranch. His mother's side of the family emigrated from the Azores.
Santos served as the vice president of Brazil under General Ernesto Geisel from 1974 to 1979. He was the last military vice president of Brazil.


== References ==

The Red River floods refer to the various flooding events in recent history of the Red River of the North, which forms the border between North Dakota and Minnesota and flows north, into Manitoba.
Around 16% of the Red River basin, excluding the Assiniboine basin, is located in Canada; the remainder is within The Dakotas and Minnesota.


== List of floods ==

Notable floods include the:

1826 Red River flood — the largest known in the Red River Valley.
1852 Red River flood
1861 Red River flood
1882 Red River flood
1897 Red River flood
1916 Red River flood
1945 Red River flood
1950 Red River flood — the largest flood in the Red River Valley since 1861. Major flooding took place in Winnipeg and the Red River Valley in April, May, and June.
1966 Red River flood
1969 Red River flood
1970 Red River flood
1974 Red River flood
1978 Red River flood
1979 Red River flood — represented the first major test of the Red River Floodway.
1987 Red River flood
1989 Red River flood
1996 Red River flood
1997 Red River flood — most severe flood in Manitoba's Red River Valley since 1852.
1997 Red River flood in the United States
1998 Red River flood
1999 Red River flood
2001 Red River flood
2006 Red River flood
2009 Red River flood — fourth highest flood on the Red River in Manitoba, since 1826.
2010 Red River flood
2011 Red River flood
2013 Red River flood
2015 Red River flood


== References ==

Tiripano is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Chipo Mugeri-Tiripano (born 1992), Zimbabwean cricketer
Donald Tiripano (born 1988), Zimbabwean cricketer
Tsitsi Tiripano (1967–2001), Zimbabwean lesbian activist

"I Ain't Comin' Back" is a song by American country music singer Morgan Wallen featuring American musician Post Malone. It was released on April 18, 2025, through Big Loud, Republic, and Mercury Records, as a promotional single from Wallen's fourth studio album, I'm the Problem. It marks their second collaboration within a year, following "I Had Some Help" (2024).


== Background and release ==
The duo's first collaboration "I Had Some Help" had previously spent six weeks atop the Billboard Hot 100 and earned Grammy nominations for Best Country Song and Best Country Duo/Group Performance. On January 25, 2025, Wallen announced his fourth studio album, I'm the Problem, and released four singles from the album ahead of its release up until April 2025.
On April 12, 2025, Wallen shared a short teaser clip of the song on his social media. Three days later, the artists announced their second single together. The release was revealed through an Instagram post accompanied by a picture of the two as well as the title and release date. Wallen also shared a snippet of the song in his Instagram stories where he can be heard "singing over a mid-tempo guitar line with a simple beat".


== Composition ==
The song is an "introspective and gritty track" about the aftermath of a breakup featuring "powerful lyrics" with "rebellious energy" due to namedrops of Richard Petty and Johnny Walker Black as well as the vow to never return to a former place that ruined the singer's reputation. The production includes "shimmering neon synth" and a "wallowing guitar line".


== Charts ==


== Certifications ==


== References ==

Kevin Sharp (born 6 April 1959) is an English cricket coach and a former first-class cricketer. He was educated at Abbey Grange High School in Leeds.
He had a fourteen-year first-class career playing for Yorkshire County Cricket Club and Griqualand West cricket team. He was a left-handed batsman and bowled right-arm off-spin.
Unlike his contemporary David Gower, this curly haired left-handed batsman failed to do justice to his talent, and did not win the England cap predicted, after he scored 260* for England Young Cricketers in 1978.
Sharp made his first-class debut for Yorkshire County Cricket Club in 1976, and was awarded his cap in 1982. As well as Yorkshire, he spent three seasons with Griqualand West in South Africa between 1981 and 1984, playing seventeen first-class matches, and averaging just under 40.
After finishing his Yorkshire first-class career in 1990, Sharp played for Shropshire in the Minor Counties from 1993 to 1997, while playing club cricket for Bridgnorth, and Ossett in Yorkshire.
After retiring from the game he has worked as a batting coach for Yorkshire, and as an umpire. He was appointed as Head Coach of Worcestershire on 12 January 2018 in succession to Steve Rhodes.


== References ==


== External links ==
Kevin Sharp at Cricinfo

The Archies is a 2023 Indian Hindi-language teen musical film directed by Zoya Akhtar, who co-produced it with Reema Kagti under Tiger Baby Films, and Sharad Devarajan under Graphic India. The film is a live-action adaptation of "The Archies," a fictional rock band who appeared in the 1960s animated cartoon, The Archie Show (with characters drawn from Archie Comics). The film stars Agastya Nanda, Khushi Kapoor, Suhana Khan, Vedang Raina, Mihir Ahuja, Aditi Saigal, and Yuvraj Menda.
The Archies had been under development since March 2018, before Akhtar's involvement as the director and producer of the film (which was officially announced in November 2021). Following an extensive pre-production and casting process, The Archies was shot from April to December 2022 in two concurrent schedules across Ooty, Mauritius, and Mumbai. Nikos Andritsakis handled the film's cinematography, with the original score composed by Shankar–Ehsaan–Loy and Jim Satya. The former also composed the songs with Ankur Tewari, The Islanders and Saigal.
The Archies premiered at the 54th International Film Festival of India on 22 November 2023, and was released on Netflix on 7 December 2023 to mixed reviews from critics and audiences. At the 2024 Filmfare OTT Awards, The Archies received 5 nominations, and won 2 awards, including Best Male Debut in a Web Original Film (for Raina).


== Plot ==
Set in the fictional Anglo-Indian community of Riverdale in 1964 India, Archie, Betty, Ronnie, Reggie, Jughead, Ethel, Dilton, Moose, and Midge struggle to save the historic "Green Park," that is slated for destruction because it is a proposed site for building a hotel.


== Cast ==


== Production ==


=== Development ===
In March 2018, Variety reported that an Indian adaptation of Archie Comics under the supervision of Sharad Devarajan, CEO of Graphic India, as a feature film was in development and would feature the fictional music group with an Indian cast. Though there was no further development, in March 2021, Zoya Akhtar was reported to helm the film. Consequently, in November, the project was officially confirmed as a Netflix original film, with Akhtar also directing and producing along with Reema Kagti under the banner of Tiger Baby Films. Although the company had previously produced Gully Boy (2019), this would mark their first independent project.
Akhtar, being a self-confessed fan of the comics, wanted the adaptation to be nostalgic and familiar with the comic fans, but also to the millennial generations who had not been familiar with the comics. She wanted to take themes that would resonate with them and blend with the nostalgia, describing it as a film "rooted in reality but being dreamy as well." Many enthusiasts compared the aesthetics of the film with that of the cottage-core genre. Reema Kagti also opined on Akhtar's comments on wanting the film to be relevant with those who had not read the comics.
In an interview for Vogue, Akhtar said that she initially met Devarajan for a different comic adaptation, and during their conversation she expressed her interest in the Archie comics, whose adaptation had been owned and leased to Netflix. Devarajan contacted the executives of Netflix and asked for her involvement on directing the film, to which she eventually agreed.

The Archies was jointly written by Akhtar, Kagti and Ayesha Devitre Dhillon. In order to keep the characters as original to the comics, Akhtar set the storyline in the Anglo-Indian community, where she and her creative team pulled down several references and met people within the community requesting old photographs for imitating their style. The film is set in the 1964, the beginning of the  hippie culture and the music of the Beatles and Bob Dylan. Akhtar said, "There was an idealism that we will make the world a better place. That was the era where they believed that they could change the world. There was a bit of rebellion, peace and love. It was also the era of rock ‘n’ roll. So, that whole feeling of that era is what we wanted to bring in."


=== Pre-production ===
The Archies marks the debut of Shah Rukh Khan's daughter Suhana Khan (Veronica), the late Sridevi and Boney Kapoor's younger daughter Khushi Kapoor (Betty), and Amitabh Bachchan's grandson Agastya Nanda (Archie). In May 2022, an announcement video for the film revealed the other principal cast members, Mihir Ahuja (Jughead), Aditi "Dot" Saigal (Ethel), Yuvraj Menda (Dilton), and Vedang Raina (Reggie). Except for Ahuja, the other three also made their debut with this film.
The casting garnered criticism owing to nepotism as three of the principal members were from film families. Critics also said the principal characters being light-skinned felt inauthentic to that period. Akhtar rebutted the criticisms, saying that many Indians are light-skinned. Also addressing the nepotism issue, Akhtar said that as the comics only described the love triangle between the principal characters (Archie, Betty and Veronica), it was falsely mentioned to have three leads. However, the film featured seven lead actors.
Nanda, Suhana and Khushi gave auditions before their selection. Apart from other principal cast members in the background—Saigal was a singer, whereas Raina was a model and musician who had not thought about acting, Suhana and Khushi had an interest in acting; the former had starred in a few short films. Saigal initially met Akhtar for music, for which she asked her to audition, and Menda was cast after Zoya found him on Instagram. The cast members underwent acting workshops to get into their characters.
On their acting performance, Akhtar further said, "they all have a particular comfort in front of the camera, a particular kind of confidence that comes through. You cannot tell it is their first time. They are not awkward in themselves and in their skin."


=== Production ===
The test shoot for the film began in March 2022, with the presence of the principal cast. On 18 April 2022, principal photography for the film began with its first schedule commencing in The Lawrence School, Lovedale near Ooty. The schedule was completed within two months. In July 2022, the crew returned to Mumbai for filming the second schedule, with a skating song under the choreography of Ganesh Hegde being shot. At the end of the month, another song sequence choreographed by Bosco–Caesar and few scenes were shot at the Royal Palms in Mumbai for 10 days, which was followed by a subsequent two-month schedule break. Filming resumed in Mumbai in October 2022, across several locations and concluded on 19 December 2022. Many scenes were also filmed in Mauritius. Throughout the schedule, the cast and crew adhered to safety regulations because of the COVID-19 pandemic.


== Music ==

The film's soundtrack was composed by Ankur Tewari, The Islanders, Aditi "Dot" Saigal and Shankar–Ehsaan–Loy, while the lyrics were written by Javed Akhtar, Tewari and Saigal. The soundtrack was released by Sony Music India on 25 November 2023.


== Marketing ==
The first poster look and teaser announcing the film's cast was released on 14 May 2022. As a part of the promotions, the film's cast members conducted a dance performance at the Tudum 2023 fan event held in São Paulo, Brazil on 17 June 2023. The same day, the film's teaser trailer was launched at the event, and was later uploaded to social media platforms the following day. In late-June 2023, the team created an advertisement of a plane flying over the Gateway of India promoting the film's release, which had been created using visual effects.
Throughout August and October 2023, Akhtar revealed the character promos and posters of the film's cast, through Instagram. Post the announcement of the release, on 30 August 2023, a huge billboard was set up on the Western Express Highway in Mumbai, indicating the countdown to the number of days to its release. The official trailer was released on 9 November 2023.
The cast members visited Hindu College, Shri Ram College of Commerce and Miranda House in Delhi on 22–23 November 2023, and further participated at a promotional event held in Film City, Mumbai on 25 November. They also participated in the fifteenth season of the game show Kaun Banega Crorepati on 6 December 2023. In addition, the team collaborated with several brands to launch merchandise as a part of promotions, including Starbucks, BoAt, Vistara, Flipkart, Maybelline, Skybags, WhatsApp and Tinder.


== Release ==
The film premiered at the 54th International Film Festival of India on 22 November 2023. The film's premiere was held at the Nita Mukesh Ambani Cultural Centre on 5 December.
It was released on Netflix on 7 December 2023.


== Reception ==
The Archies received mixed reviews from critics in India, while the reviews leaned towards generally positive overseas, with praise for Akhtar's direction, the production values and the soundtrack, but criticism for the screenplay and the performances.
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 63% of 27 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 6/10. Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 66 out of 100, based on 6 critics, indicating "generally favorable" reviews. The film received mixed reviews from audiences.
Amy Nicholson of The New York Times wrote that "this inessential Bollywood-tinged fantasia is two and a half hours of soda shops, chaste dates, candy-colored petticoats, and athletic musical numbers." Udita Jhunjhunwala of Scroll.in termed it a "good-looking nostalgia piece," but dismissed the dialogues as occasionally "banal"; she considered the "real stars" to be the "production design, costumes, cinematography, art direction, choreography and locations." NDTV's Saibal Chatterjee labelled it "a beguiling oddity in style, substance and spirit", adding that the "pat and predictable" film "flows without a hitch and articulates its points with a refreshing lightness of touch." A critic from Bollywood Hungama awarded the film 4/5 stars and wrote, "The Archies is a fine entertainer that will get a whopping viewership on Netflix due to the fascinating setting, kids-friendly and family-friendly theme, style, music, message and above all, the excitement of watching the debut of the most talked about star kids in recent times."
Among the ensemble cast of newcomers, Sukanya Verma of Rediff.com deemed Suhana Khan and Vedang Raina "ready-to-ship star material." Terming the film's cast as "Nepotism Central," Shubhra Gupta of The Indian Express believed that, "Khushi has more verve than both Agastya and Suhana, but I will also say that the latter did grow on me." Conversely, Jhunjunwala found Khushi Kapoor a "bit stiff in her dance moves and speech" and Agastya Nanda "likeable though a touch diffident in his timbre." Sneha Bengani of CNBC TV18 dismissed Nanda, Khan, and Kapoor as "wooden" and "too plastic."


== Accolades ==


== References ==


== External links ==
The Archies at IMDb 
The Archies on Netflix 
The Archies at Rotten Tomatoes

Rafael da Silva Ribeiro (born 23 June 1986) is a retired Brazilian sprinter. He won the gold medal in the 4 × 100 metres relay at the 2007 Pan American Games.


== References ==


== External links ==
Rafael Ribeiro at World Athletics
Rafael Ribeiro at Tilastopaja (registration required)
Rafael Ribeiro at Olympedia
Rafael Ribeiro at InterSportStats

The 1933–34 season was the 25th in the history of the Isthmian League, an English football competition.
Kingstonian were champions, winning their first Isthmian League title.


== League table ==


== References ==

Kong Island (original Italian title: Eva, la Venere selvaggia; translated as Eva, the Savage Venus) is a 1968 jungle adventure film (with a science fiction element) directed by Roberto Mauri (billed as Robert Morris). The film was promoted in the U.S. as King of Kong Island.


== Plot synopsis ==

The story takes place in the jungles of Kenya and its capital city Nairobi. Despite the English-language title, there is no island (and no "Kong"). Mad scientist Albert Muller is experimenting with small radio transmitters implanted in the brains of gorillas that control their minds. These are test subjects with the ultimate goal of doing this to humans.
Diana, the daughter of bar owner Theodore (no last name is mentioned), is abducted by gorillas.  Burt also has a personal motive---he was shot and left for dead by an ex-partner who he suspects is behind the situation. Hostile natives attack his group, and Burt is captured along the way. After he escapes, Burt meets a legendary white jungle girl the natives call the Sacred Monkey (In the English dubbed version, he first calls her Eve, but later everyone refers to her as Eva).
Eva is a Tarzan-like orphan who grew up alone in the jungle. She wears only a leather loincloth, and her waist-length black hair covers her breasts. She does not speak English but can communicate with animals and has a pet chimpanzee. She has one of Diana's bracelets and eventually leads Burt to a cave where she is being held prisoner by Muller. This is where the final conflict and resolution takes place---a rather convoluted mess  that leaves Burt and Diana as the only survivors.
Unlike virtually every other film which features a jungle girl character, this story concentrates on Burt and his love interest Diana, with Eva confined to a marginal supporting role.
This film, though the name is very closely related to a very popular movie franchise, is not related in any form to King Kong. It is a translation of an Italian film Eva, la Venere Selvaggia, which translates as  Eve the Savage Venus, leading to the alternate English-language title Eve the Wild Woman. This gives a better approximation of the film being closer one of the female Tarzan copies such as The Perils of Nyoka (1942) or tv’s Sheena, Queen of the Jungle (1955-6).


== Cast ==
Brad Harris as Burt Dawson
Esmeralda Barros as Eve
Marc Lawrence as Albert Muller
Ursula Davis as Diana
Adriana Alben as Ursula
Marc Fiorini (credited as Mark Farran) as Robert
Aldo Cecconi as Theodore (credited as Jim Clay)
Paolo Magalotti as Turk (credited as Paul Carter)
Mario Donatone as Forrester
Gianni Pulone
Miles Mason as Malik The Gorilla


== Legacy ==
Contrary to popular belief, this film has nothing to do with King Kong and does not take place on an island. The film is in the public domain.


== See also ==
List of films in the public domain in the United States


== References ==


== External links ==
Eva, la Venere selvaggia (1968) at DBCult Film Institute
Kong Island at IMDb
Kong Island complete film available on YouTube

The Faubourg Saint-Antoine (French pronunciation: [fobuʁ sɛ̃t‿ɑ̃twan]) was one of the traditional suburbs of Paris, France.
It grew up to the east of the Bastille around the abbey of Saint-Antoine-des-Champs, and ran along the Rue du Faubourg Saint-Antoine.


== Location ==
The Faubourg Saint-Antoine extended from the Porte Saint-Antoine towards the abbey of Saint-Antoine-des-Champs, then to the Château de Vincennes. 
Roads led to the villages of Charenton, Charonne, Reuilly and Montreuil, which provided large amounts of wine, fruit and vegetables to the city.
Today the former faubourg is divided by the rue du Faubourg Saint-Antoine between the  11th arrondissement of Paris, which extends to the north of the road, and 12th arrondissement, which extends to the south.


== History ==


=== Early years ===
The suburb was the location of the Battle of the Faubourg St Antoine on 2 July 1652.
In the 17th century, according to Piganiol de La Force, "The Faubourg Saint-Antoine increased prodigiously from the large number of houses that were built there, both because of the good air and because of the king's letters patent of 1657, which exempted from the qualification of mastership all artisans and tradespeople who lived there."
Firewood and construction timber from higher up the Seine was unloaded at the nearby Quai de la Rapée on the Île Louviers and stored in the faubourg, leading to development of woodworking crafts.
Skilled Flemish and German artisans, often Protestant, moved to the faubourg and worked as carvers, gilders, polishers, turners and cabinetmakers. 
Jean-Baptiste Colbert established the royal mirror factory on the rue de Reuilly.
The factory of Jean-Baptiste Réveillon on the rue de Montreuil on part of the site of the former Folie Titon became the royal wallpaper factory under Louis XVI.
In April 1789 the contractor running the Réveillon factory sparked a riot by threatening to cut wages.
The factory was badly damaged, troops were brought in and several dozen people were killed.


=== French Revolution ===
During the French Revolution (1789–99) the faubourg was given the name "Faubourg-de-Gloire".
The faubourg gained a reputation for turbulence during the revolution, starting with the storming of the Bastille on 14 July 1789.
The people of the Quinze-Vingts and Montreuil sections took part in the insurrection of 10 August 1792, and that of 2 June 1793 that caused to Girondins to fall from power. The revolt of 1 Prairial Year III began in the faubourg, and was savagely repressed.


=== 19th century ===
In 1808 there were 750 workers, mostly children, in the rue de Charonne spinning mills of François Richard-Lenoir (1765–1839) and Joseph Lenoir-Dufresne (1768–1806), housed in a former convent.
The machines were horse-powered.
In the uprising of June 1848 the Faubourg Saint-Antoine was the last to capitulate, after being heavily shelled by artillery from the Bastille area and then attacked by troops from the Popincourt quarter, with many casualties, in the morning of June 26, 1848.
The Faubourg Saint-Antoine, controlled by the Reuilly barracks, was densely populated with people of the working and "dangerous" classes. 
Baron Georges-Eugène Haussmann wanted to ensure that an insurrection could easily be suppressed.
He proposed to Napoleon III to lower the level of the Canal Saint-Martin and cover it so it could be crossed by the Boulevard de la Reine-Hortense (now the Boulevard Richard-Lenoir). 
He said, "I have rarely seen my august sovereign enthusiastic. This time he was so without reserve, so great an importance did he place ... on the work by means of which I proposed to remove the permanent obstacle ... to the line of control from which one could, in case of need, take the Faubourg Saint-Antoine from the rear."
Haussmann split the faubourg between the 11th and 12th arrondissements and replaced the street names with numbers, but the inhabitants continued to use the old names.
The former faubourg retained its revolutionary character after it had been formally dissolved.
According to Daniel Halévy, 

As long as the Dreyfus crisis lasted the Fauberg Saint-Antoine was our fortress ... in the little room on Rue Paul-Bert, where we huddled together, workers and bourgeois, where we squeezed our chairs one against the other ... One day in autumn 1899, we watched for hours the return of the crown of workers who had been parading on the Place du Trône, before the Triomphe de la République, Dalou's bronze statue that had been unveiled that day. I doubt that 1848, with its famous festivals, or 1790, on the day of the Federations, saw a greater movement of the masses, or one so powerfully possessed by the spirit of the Revolution". 


== In popular culture ==
Large parts of the book A Tale of Two Cities (1859) take place in Faubourg Saint-Antoine, where it is referred to as simply 'Saint Antoine'.
The Faubourg Saint-Antoine is also the setting for many scenes in Les Misérables (1862).


== Notes ==


== Sources ==

Wincentów [vinˈt͡sɛntuf] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Piekoszów, within Kielce County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in south-central Poland. It lies approximately 2 km (1 mi) west of Piekoszów and 13 km (8 mi) west of the regional capital Kielce.


== References ==

Spanish actress Nathalie Poza has received several awards including two Goya Awards, five Actors and Actresses Union Awards, and one Talía Award.
Poza won the Goya Award for Best Actress for her role as a woman addicted to alcohol, cocaine, and sex with strangers returning to her hometown in Lino Escalera's Can't Say Goodbye (2017). She won the Goya Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role as a high-ranking executive with a drinking problem in the Icíar Bollaín comedy drama Rosa's Wedding (2020).
She also won the Talía Award for Best Leading Actress for her portrayal of Blanche DuBois in A Streetcar Named Desire.


== Industry associations and guilds ==


=== Goya Awards ===


=== Iris Awards ===


=== Lola Gaos Awards ===


=== Actors and Actresses Union Awards ===


=== Talía Awards ===


=== Platino Awards ===


=== Forqué Awards ===


== Critics and screen journalists' associations and circles ==


=== Feroz Awards ===


=== CEC Medals ===


== Competitive festival awards ==


=== Málaga Film Festival ===


== References ==

Philip Henry Christopher Jackson CVO DL (born 18 April 1944) is a Scottish sculptor, noted for his modern style and emphasis on form. Acting as Royal Sculptor to Queen Elizabeth II, his sculptures appear in numerous UK cities, as well as Argentina and Switzerland.
His twice life-size (6 metre tall) bronze statue of Bobby Moore was erected outside the main entrance at Wembley Stadium in 2007 to pay tribute to his effect on football.


== Life ==
Jackson was born in Scotland during the Second World War and now works at the Edward Lawrence Studio in Midhurst, West Sussex and lives nearby. He went to the Farnham School of Art (now the University for the Creative Arts). After leaving school, he was a press photographer for a year and then joined a design company as a sculptor. Half of his time is spent on commissions and the other half on his gallery sculpture. He is well known for his major outdoor pieces, such as the Young Mozart in Chelsea and the Jersey Liberation sculpture. His sources of inspiration have been Jacob Epstein, Auguste Rodin, Henry Moore, Oscar Nemon and Kenneth Armitage. But the most powerful influences in his life are his wife Jean and son Jamie who work with him.
Jackson describes his art in the following words:

My sculptures are essentially an impressionistic rendering of the figure. Where you see the figure seemingly grow out of the ground, the texture resembles tree bark, rock, or lava flow. As the eye moves up the sculpture, the finish becomes gentler & more delicately worked, culminating in the hands and the mask, both of which are precisely observed & modelled.
Jackson lives in Cocking, West Sussex, where his garden and sculptures are occasionally open to the public.


== Honours ==
Jackson was appointed Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (CVO) in the 2009 Birthday Honours list.
He was awarded an honorary MA by the University of Chichester in 2004.
On 1 April 2008, Jackson was appointed a Deputy Lieutenant of West Sussex.
His work on the RAF Bomber Command Memorial won him the 2013 Marsh Award for Excellence in Public Sculpture.


== Commissions ==

Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart – Belgravia, London
Falklands War Sculpture – Portsmouth
Liberation Sculpture – Jersey, Channel Islands
Sir Matt Busby – Old Trafford, Manchester
Empress Elisabeth of Austria – Geneva, Switzerland
St Richard – Chichester Cathedral
King George VI – Britannia Royal Naval College, Dartmouth
The Gurka Memorial – Horse Guards Avenue
1966 World Cup Sculpture – Newham, London
Queen Elizabeth II – Windsor Great Park
Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother – London
Bobby Moore and Sir Alf Ramsey – Wembley Stadium, London
United Trinity – Old Trafford, Manchester
Sir Alex Ferguson – Old Trafford, Manchester
Peter Osgood – Stamford Bridge, Fulham
Korean War Memorial – London
Statue of Constantine the Great, York
RAF Bomber Command Memorial – London
As well as producing commissions, Jackson also creates 'studio' works, mainly theatrical subjects. One of his most celebrated works was the life-size nude, Maggie Reading.
It was announced on 6 September 2019 that Jackson had been commissioned to build the National Emergency Services Memorial which was being backed by the Duke of Cambridge and prime minister Boris Johnson.


== References ==


== External links ==

Philip Jackson Sculptures – artist's website

Tyson Paul Ruiz (born 10 March 1988) is a Gibraltarian semi-professional footballer who plays for Bruno's Magpies in the Gibraltar National League as a midfielder.


== Club career ==
After leaving Lynx, Ruiz spent a season at Manchester 62. In a disappointing season for the club, Ruiz played a central role in midfield and was spotted by ambitious newly promoted side Mons Calpe in 2016. However, despite making 20 appearances in the league, he left the club as the MCSC ownership opted to overhaul their squad, joining Glacis United on 18 August 2017. He moved to Gibraltar Phoenix in January 2019, making his debut in a 2–0 defeat to former club Mons Calpe on 7 January 2019. However, in August 2019 he returned to the Calpeans.


== International career ==
On 10 October 2017, he made his debut for the Gibraltar national team.


== Futsal career ==
Ruiz is also an active footballer in Gibraltar's futsal league, playing as a forward for Lynx futsal in their UEFA Futsal League campaigns.


== References ==

The Progressive People's Party (German: Fortschrittliche Volkspartei, FVP) was a social liberal party in the German Empire. It was formed on 6 March 1910 from the merger of the Free-minded People's Party, the Free-minded Union and the German People's Party. The FVP advocated the parliamentarisation of the Empire and socio-political changes such as universal suffrage and the right to form and join trade unions. Its membership was largely middle class, including merchants, mid-level civil servants, salaried employees and academics. It occasionally cooperated with the Social Democratic Party before World War I. Although initially in favour of a wartime policy of annexations, it later supported the 1917 Reichstag Peace Resolution and the constitutional reforms of October 1918. After the war, the FVP joined with the left wing of the National Liberal Party to form the German Democratic Party of the Weimar Republic.


== Background ==
At the beginning of the 20th century, the Free-minded People's Party (Freisinnige Volkspartei, also FVP), the Free-minded Union (Freisinnige Vereinigung, FVG) and the German People's Party (Deutsche Volkspartei, DtVP) together represented a range of left-liberal viewpoints. Efforts to overcome the fragmentation began in 1903 when an electoral alliance was formed between the FVP and the DtVP. Before the 1907 Reichstag election, the two free-minded parties joined the Bülow bloc, an electoral alliance formed by Chancellor Bernhard von Bülow after the Reichstag, led by the Social Democratic Party (SPD) and Centre Party, rejected his supplemental budget bill to fund the Herero Wars in German South West Africa. The bloc was made up of Conservatives, National Liberals and the left-liberal parties. Because of the FVG's cooperation with the conservatives in the Bülow bloc, Theodor Barth and his supporters split away from the party in the spring of 1908 and formed the Democratic Union (Demokratische Vereinigung, DV). In the 1907 Reichstag, the three left-liberal parties united in a parliamentary caucus, and in 1910 they merged to become the Progressive People's Party. 


== Party program ==

The party program of the Progressive People's Party centred on increasing the influence of the middle class and expanding political freedom. It called for equal, direct and universal suffrage in both the Reich and its individual states and for the abolition of the three-class voting system used in Prussia, which weighted votes based on the amount of taxes paid and consequently diluted the strength of middle- and working-class votes. The party also sought a fair division of electoral districts, which had become heavily unbalanced in favour of rural regions due to the lack of reapportionments during a period when urban industrial centres were growing rapidly. The Progressives furthermore supported a consistent separation of church and state and a modification of the Reich constitution that would make the Empire a parliamentary monarchy.
Economically and socially, the party advocated a gradual reduction of food and industrial tariffs; progressive taxation of Income, wealth and inheritance; the safeguarding and expansion of the right of workers to form and join trade unions; the improvement of occupational safety; and the introduction of measures to protect the unemployed. The national and state parliaments and governments were to be encouraged to work with self-help organizations to improve the economic and social situation of wage and salary earners. At the international level, the party stood for peaceful conciliation by developing international law and international courts of arbitration.
The party's liberal economics represented the interests of the export industry, trade, banks, crafts and commerce. Overall the orientation was towards a welfare state rather than Manchester liberalism. The party wanted to raise the general welfare and promote social progress and public education. The scope of its goals was substantial for a party of the German Empire.
Historian Dieter Langewiesche wrote that the party program showed the momentum of a newly invigorated left-wing liberalism. He saw it as particularly evident in social policy. Self-help, no longer a matter of political dogma, was accompanied by demands for state intervention. The party did not, however, advocate equal rights for women extending beyond the right to vote. Friedrich Naumann called for it but was not able to make it part of the FVP's program.


== Organisation ==

The party was tightly organised. At the top was a central committee which included the FVP Reichstag members and the executive committee, sixty representatives of the regional associations, and a few appointees. Political questions were decided by the Reichstag party members and organisational matters by the executive committee. The financial situation of the party was often difficult because of late or skipped dues payments.
In 1912 the party had around 1,452 local branches with a total of some 120,000 members. They came mainly from the lower and middle levels of the bourgeoisie. Tradespeople, merchants, mid-level civil servants, salaried employees and academics were among the groups most strongly represented. The number of primary school teachers and Protestant pastors was also relatively high. In some areas, such as Oldenburg and the Province of Schleswig-Holstein, the party had supporters among farmers, but it had relatively little success with lower-level employees and workers. It tried to increase its share of workers by encouraging the founding of liberal workers' associations, but by 1914 they had achieved a membership of just 5,000.
There were a number of unaffiliated associations which exerted influence on the party. They included the Commercial Treaty Association, in which merchants and entrepreneurs had joined forces to promote free trade. Other associations included the Hansa Federation for Trade, Commerce and Industry; liberal farmers‘ and agricultural workers’ organizations; the General German Teachers‘ Association; the Hirsch-Duncker trade unions with around 100,000 members; and, to some extent, Protestant workers’ associations.


== Politics ==

Due to its left-wing liberal positions, the party was mostly in opposition to the government's domestic, economic and fiscal policies. The FVP's main opponents in the Reichstag were the German Conservative Party and, in the early years, the Catholic Centre Party.
A key question for the liberal parties in the Reichstag was whether to work with the Social Democrats (SPD). Friedrich Naumann coined a slogan urging a ‘bloc from Bassermann to Bebel’, referring to Ernst Bassermann, the chairman of the National Liberal Party and his SPD counterpart August Bebel. Naumann's idea was supported by the Hansa Federation, which wanted to create a reform bloc separate from the conservative-agrarian interests, but it caused considerable controversy in the Progressive Party. Its chairman Otto Fischbeck spoke of a ‘grand bloc utopia’ at the Reich level. Bassermann and Bebel also opposed it.
The left-liberal parties' political positions were less rigid than they had been in the past. In 1911 the Liberals, Centre and Social Democrats had made it possible to reform the constitution of Alsace–Lorraine. In 1912 the FVP and Social Democrats concluded a comprehensive agreement on runoff elections. The party leadership's action led to protests from some members, and the agreement was followed by only about half the voters. It was also opposed by some in the Social Democratic Party.
In the 1912 Reichstag election, the FVP received 11.9% of the vote and 41 seats. Compared to the 50 seats won by the founding parties in 1907, it meant a parliamentary weakening of left-wing liberalism. The share of the vote, however, had increased by 1.2 percentage points compared to 1907. (The discrepancy between the loss of seats and the gain in the percentage of votes was likely due to the large differences in the number of voters in electoral districts.)
In the Reichstag, the FVP and Social Democrats worked together, and at times the National Liberals also joined them. In 1913 the FVP and the SPD pushed through a capital gains tax against the opposition of the conservatives in order to finance an increase in the size of the army.


== World War I ==

In the early phases of World War I, there were essentially three positions on its aims. Some in the FVP, including Friedrich Naumann, assumed a victory which would allow Germany to establish a "Central Europe" (Mitteleuropa) that it would dominate. They also called for annexations and the formation of buffer states around Germany. A middle group advocated a peace based on security needs, while the third group pushed for a negotiated peace. One opponent of expansionist war aims was the 1927 Nobel Peace Prize winner Ludwig Quidde. Conflicts arose between FVP members who held different positions, although overall the party kept to the middle on the issue of war aims.
The FVP worked with the Centre Party, the Social Democrats and, at times, the National Liberals in the inter-party committee which they formed in July 1917 to coordinate their work in the Reichstag. The committee supported the Reichstag Peace Resolution of 19 July 1917 which called for a peace treaty with no annexations and no indemnities. In the same year, Friedrich von Payer became vice chancellor in Georg von Hertling's government, making the left-liberals something close to a governing party. The FVP also backed the October 1918 constitutional reforms, which transformed the German Empire into a parliamentary monarchy during the government of Max von Baden. Conrad Haussmann of the FVP was a minister without portfolio in Baden's cabinet. On 20 November 1918, in the early weeks of the post-war German revolution, the Progressive People's Party dissolved itself and merged with the left wing of the National Liberal Party to form the German Democratic Party (DDP) of the Weimar Republic.


== Notable members ==
Gertrud Bäumer, writer and feminist
Theodor Heuss, president of West Germany 1949–1959
Johannes Kaempf, president of the Reichstag 1912–1918
Georg Kerschensteiner, educational theorist
Helene Lange, advocate for women's access to higher education
Franz von Liszt, criminologist and international law reformer
Friedrich Naumann, liberal reformer and Protestant pastor
Otto Nuschke, active in Weimar Republic and East German politics
Friedrich von Payer, vice chancellor of the German Empire 1917–1918
Hugo Preuß, chief drafter of the Weimar Constitution
Ludwig Quidde, pacifist and Nobel Peace Prize winner
Reinhold Maier, leader of the liberal Free Democrats (FDP) from 1957–1960


== References ==

Paspaley, officially the Paspaley Pearling Company, a private company, is Australia's largest and oldest pearling company; that cultivates, farms, harvests, wholesales and retails South Sea pearls for the purposes of luxury jewellery supply and manufacture. Paspaley claims that it is a strong advocate of environmental responsibility within the pearling industry.
The Paspaley Group has a diversified portfolio of investments including a naval fleet, aircraft, a shopping mall, an office block, agricultural properties, resorts, and a vineyard. Members of the Paspaley family had an interest in Australia's largest immigration detention centre, located 35 kilometres (22 mi) south of Darwin, Northern Territory.


== Paspaley Pearls ==
According to Paspaley, its pearls are particularly known for their 'orient', which is the combination of transparent lustre and unique play of colours which is exhibited by pearls with fine quality
Paspaley operates 20 pearl farms dotted along the coastline of north-Western Australia. Paspaley claims that it maintains a ‘leave no trace’ environmental policy. In 2012, the area in which Paspaley operates was designated as a marine wilderness sanctuary. Paspaley stated that this area was still in pristine condition and is a breeding ground for humpback whales.
Paspaley Pearls appear in the collections of Tiffany & Co, Cartier, Harry Winston, Chow Tai Fook, Falconer, and more. In 1992 a single Paspaley strand of 23 pearls set a world record for cultured pearls when it was auctioned for US$2.3 million at Sotheby's, New York.


=== Retail and wholesale ===
Paspaley operate nine retail stores globally, with a strong presence in Australia – most recently in Crown – Melbourne, Australia; as well as the UAE. In addition to the retail stores, Paspaley also operates the Paspaley e-boutique.
Paspaley Pearling Company is the pearling wholesale department of the Paspaley Group of Companies. This department sells Paspaley Australian South Sea pearls to a variety of jewellery brands as well as independent retailers.


== History ==


=== Early history ===
Paspaley was established by the Paspalis family, who migrated from Kastellorizo, Greece to Australia.
The family settled in Cossack, Western Australia. At that time, the Australian north coast was the world's most important pearling area, with the towns of Broome, Western Australia, Cossack, and Darwin being the world's leading pearling ports.  The Paspalis family were among the few Europeans living in the area with Aboriginal inhabitants and Asian pearl fishermen. Pearling was one of the few viable industries in the area, and Theodosis Paspalis with the help of his family, built a pearling fleet that became the basis of the family company.
Nicholas Paspaley joined the pearling trade at 14 years of age. By 1932, at the age of 19, he ran his own pearling lugger, diving for natural pearls, and for mother-of-pearl shell. When Port Hedland began to become less profitable due to exhaustion of the pearl fields, Paspaley made the decision to move to the uncharted waters of Darwin. In Darwin, Paspaley increased his pearling fleet to 5 pearling ships. It was in Darwin that Nicholas Paspalis changed the family name to Paspaley, and established the Paspaley Pearling Company.
At the outbreak of World War II, the Australian government impounded and then destroyed all pearling luggers in North Australia to keep them away from Japanese invaders.


=== Post World War II ===

After WWII the Japanese Akoya pearl industry was rebuilt in Japan, and exports of Japanese Akoya Cultured pearls boomed to international markets. Similarly, post World War II, the Australian mother-of-pearl shell industry also boomed as renewed demand ensured record prices for mother-of-pearl buttons right through to the mid-1950s.
Nicholas Paspaley had purchased four luggers which had been abandoned during the war by the Royal Australian Navy on Darwin's beaches. Once again, after rebuilding the luggers, Nicholas resumed pearling out of Darwin. However, the invention of the plastic button in the mid 1950s reduced demand for mother-of-pearl shell, virtually devastating the industry overnight, with the fleets of pearling luggers abandoned once more on the beaches.
Not to be defeated by this sudden collapse of the industry, Nicholas drew inspiration from the success of the booming Japanese Akoya cultured pearl industry, and sought to resurrect the South Sea pearl project commenced by Baron Iwasaki in 1916 – this time taking advantage of North Australia's abundant and superior beds of South Sea pearl oysters – with the dream to cultivate the world's largest and most valuable cultured pearl – the cultured South Sea pearl.
In the early 1950s Nicholas negotiated a joint venture project with the Kuribayashi family of Japan – employing the Iwasaki/Mitsubishi experts who had pioneered the project before the war. Although the Kuribayashi's had no pearl farming experience, the Kuribayashi family were the owners of the Japanese pearling fleet that travelled from Japan each year, diving for mother-of-pearl shell and pearls off the North Australian coast. Their experience in the pearling industry made them a suitable partner for the project.
The Australian Government subsequently removed the ban on pearl culture activities in Australia, and authorised the establishment of the first two pearl farms in Australia. One at Kuri Bay (named after Kuribayashi), and one at Port Essington. Initially, the Kuri Bay project was controlled by the Kuribayashi family, and the Port Essington project was controlled by Paspaley Pearling Company. Ultimately – In 1989, under the stewardship of Nick Paspaley Jnr., the two projects were merged under the Paspaley Pearling Company banner.
During the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s, the Australia pearl farms operated with virtually the same pre-WWII Iwasaki/Mitsubishi technology. Pearl production flourished and increased steadily annually. Cultured South Sea pearls became known simply as "South Sea pearls". They dominated pearl jewellery markets worldwide, and established a distinct "premier" category of cultured pearls – the "South Sea Pearl". These pearls had the effect of resurrected the existence once more of important pearl jewellery in leading jewellery houses around the world. South Sea pearl prices were hundreds of times higher than the Japanese Akoya cultured pearl prices.
Nicholas Paspaley had lived to realise his dream of creating cultured pearls of the same quality as his natural South Sea pearls – valuable "old world" pearls.
In 1982 Nicholas Paspaley was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire for his services to the pearling industry, to business and to community service. He was also awarded a Paul Harris Fellowship for his services to the community through Rotary International. Nicholas Paspaley lived the romantic life of a true adventurer and pioneer. He dedicated his whole life to the pearling industry in the remoteness of North Australia. He died in 1984. Nicholas's wife Vivienne Lavinia Paspaley (1913–2003) worked with her husband to build the Paspaley Pearling Company and was also a significant figure in the social development of Darwin.
Nick Paspaley Jnr joined the Paspaley Pearling Company in 1969 after graduating from Sydney University as a Bachelor of Economics. Nick worked with his father eventually pioneering modern pearl cultivating techniques that enabled the realisation of his father's vision.
In 1999 Nick Paspaley Jnr was appointed Companion of the Order of Australia for his services to Australia's export industry.
Nick Paspaley Jnr was instrumental in the establishment of the South Sea Pearl Consortium – the non-profit organisation committed to promoting and protecting the reputation of the South Sea pearl. Nick is a board member of CIBJO – The World Jewelry Federation whose charter is the promotion of ethics and responsibility in the jewellery industry for the protection of consumers, and to foster confidence in the jewellery industry.


== Management and structure ==

Paspaley Pearls is a family-run and -owned business, with offices in Australia, Hong Kong, Japan, and the UAE. Paspaley operates a joint venture with its original Japanese joint venture partners. The company operates pearl retailing and  wholesaling businesses. Pearl production is one business unit of the diversified Paspaley Group of Companies.
Nick Paspaley is the Chairman of the Paspaley Group of Companies. His son, James, is the Executive Director of the family-controlled group. Nick Paspaley's nephews, Peter and Michael Bracher, oversee the worldwide distribution of the company's pearls.
The following businesses operate under Paspaley Group of Companies:

Paspaley Pearls
Paspaley Pearling Company
Paspaley Pearls Properties
Aviation
Paspaley Pastoral Group
Bunnamagoo Wines
Pearl Marine Engineering


== See also ==
354 George Street, Sydney


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Oostwold may refer to:

Oostwold, Leek, a village in the municipality of Leek, province of Groningen in the Netherlands
Oostwold, Oldambt, a village in the municipality of Oldambt, province of Groningen in the Netherlands
Oostwold Airport, near Winschoten, province of Groningen in the Netherlands

Bangladesh Television (Bengali: বাংলাদেশ টেলিভিশন), commonly known by its acronym BTV (Bengali: বিটিভি), is the state-owned television network of Bangladesh. The network was originally established as the East Pakistan branch of Pakistan Television in 1964. It was rebranded right after the independence of Bangladesh. BTV is the oldest Bengali-language television network in the world, as well as the oldest television network in Bangladesh, and is sister to the radio broadcaster Bangladesh Betar, which, along with BTV, are both owned and operated by the government.
Bangladesh Television is the country's only television network provided on terrestrial television. It is primarily financed through television licence fees. Although it has produced many award-winning programs, it has often been accused of being the mouthpiece of the government and panned for its lack of quality programming. Both the headquarters and the administrative building of Bangladesh Television are located at Rampura in Dhaka.
Prior to the late 1990s, Bangladesh Television was the sole television broadcaster provided in Bangladesh. It was a very successful network in terms of viewership until the launch of several satellite television channels, which led to the network's downfall and stagnation, mostly because it was used for spewing government propaganda for a long period of time. Reporters Without Borders dubbed Bangladesh Television, along with Bangladesh Betar, as a "government propaganda outlet".
Bangladesh Television operates two main television stations, BTV Dhaka and BTV Chittagong, and fourteen relay stations all over Bangladesh. The network also has one specialized television channel, BTV News. It is a member of the Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union and Asiavision, and is an associate member of the European Broadcasting Union. Bangladesh Television also plans to launch six more television channels. The network formerly had an international television channel, BTV World, which was launched in 2004. BTV can be received via satellite throughout Asia and parts of Europe and Africa. Bangladesh Television is also the sister network of Sangsad Television, a parliamentary television channel. BTV Dhaka broadcasts eighteen hours a day on terrestrial television, and twenty-four hours a day on satellite television. BTV Chittagong broadcasts on a full-day basis daily.


== History ==


=== 1964–1971: Pakistan Television era ===

BTV first commenced transmissions on 25 December 1964 at 19:00 (Dhaka Standard Time), as a pilot project in the then East Pakistan under the name Pilot Television Dacca, airing a song titled "Oi Je Akash Nil Holo Aaj/Shei Shudhu Tomar Preme", sung by singer Ferdausi Rahman. Mordecai Cohen was the first announcer on BTV. One of the first broadcasts on the station was also the announcement, "Accept our best wishes, pilot television, Dhaka, 10 Poush 1371", using the Bengali calendar date rather than the Gregorian one. It broadcast from the DIT Bhaban on a three- to four-hour basis, with broadcasting equipment provided by NEC. It was originally supposed to be launched on 1 October.
After three months on the air, it was officially converted into a service of Pakistan Television on 25 March 1965. It only broadcast six days a week, while being closed on Mondays. This was Pakistan Television's second television station after the one in Lahore. The first drama telecast on PTV's Dacca television station, Ektala Dotala, written by Munier Choudhury, was aired in 1965. The reality television series Notun Kuri premiered on the station in 1966. It was later taken off the air, although the series would return to the air in 1976. The first television commercial on PTV Dacca was aired in 1967 for a detergent soap 707. The same year, Pakistan Television's eastern branch was converted to an autonomous corporation. The station initially broadcast on VHF channel 9, but moved to channel 6 and increased its signal on 27 October 1968. There were also plans to establish relay stations in Khulna, Rajshahi, and Chittagong.
On 4 March 1971, the Dacca station of Pakistan Television was unofficially renamed "Dacca Television", and television celebrities refused to work for Pakistani television as the East Pakistanis struggled for autonomy. On 23 March 1971, three days before Bangladesh was declared an independent state, Dacca Television began displaying the flag of Bangladesh and playing the Bangladeshi national anthem, Amar Sonar Bangla, rather than the Pakistani flag and national anthem, despite special programming being arranged on the occasion of Pakistan Day.
Threats were made by Pakistani authorities that if the flag of Pakistan was not displayed on television, then Bengali workers would be barred from entering the television center. However, pro-Bangladesh songs were aired on Dacca Television on the night of 23 March instead. Dacca Television later signed off the next day at 00:01 following an announcement by Masuma Khatun. No programming was broadcast on that day in order to protest Pakistani intervention. As a result, the Pakistan Armed Forces took control of the DIT Bhaban on 26 March but was attacked by the Mukti Bahini. At that moment, people joined to fight for the independence of East Pakistan through its television industry.


=== 1971–1997: Independence and government monopoly ===

After the independence of Bangladesh in 1971, Pakistan Television's Dacca television station was renamed Bangladesh Television Corporation Dacca, officially losing its affiliation with PTV. Bangladesh Television's logo appeared on the television screen for the first time on 17 December 1971. Major A.T.M. Haider announced the victory of Bangladesh in the separation war on Bangladesh Television on the same day during the afternoon. Official broadcasts using the name also began that day at 19:00 (BST).
Jamil Chowdhury was the first director general of Bangladesh Television. A signature tune for the station was later made, being based on Dhana Dhanya Pushpa Bhara, a patriotic song written by Bengali poet Dwijendralal Ray. The next year, the autonomous corporation was converted into a fully government-owned department on 15 September, being renamed again as Bangladesh Television Dacca, known just as Bangladesh Television or BTV. The network established its first television station outside Dhaka in Natore in 1974.
On 9 February 1975, the offices and studios were shifted to the newly built headquarters located at Rampura in Dacca with newer technology. Operations from the Rampura headquarters building commenced on 6 March of that year. The then president of Bangladesh, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, visited the new headquarters building on 18 May 1975. A while following the assassination of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, four BTV officials, including one of the founders of the network and then deputy general director, Monirul Alam, were killed on 7 November 1975. By 1975, BTV increased its broadcasting schedule to four hours daily. At the time, the transmissions of BTV Dacca covered areas around Comilla, Faridpur, Mymensingh, and Tangail besides Dacca. It increased its broadcasting schedule again to five and a half hours daily the following year.

In 1977, Fazle Lohani created a new magazine show for BTV based on The David Frost Show, Jodi Kichhu Mone Na Koren, which ended right after his death. It later expanded its broadcasting schedule to six hours daily in 1979. Bangladesh Television commenced color transmissions on 1 December 1980, being inaugurated by President Ziaur Rahman, marking the first official full-time color broadcasts in South Asia. In 1984, Bangladesh Television merged with Bangladesh Betar to form the National Broadcasting Authority. As of 1986, BTV broadcast for 9 hours on weekdays and 14 hours on weekends, usually during the evenings. It also aired special programming on Fridays, as well as during national and religious holidays.
It began relaying broadcasts of CNN and BBC in 1992, marking the first presence of foreign television in Bangladesh. In 1994, BTV telecasted its first private production, a one-hour play, Prachir Periye, directed by Atiqul Haque Chowdhury. A commission for the formulation of the autonomy policy of Bangladesh Television, as well as Bangladesh Betar, was founded in September 1996 in order to reform Bangladeshi state media. It issued a report recommending granting BTV its autonomy the next year on 30 June. The network established its Chittagong station on 19 December 1996. In May 1997, Bangladesh Television received an Asiavision Award for its coverage of the cyclone that occurred in that year.


=== 1997–2024: Decline of BTV and rise of private television ===
Bangladesh Television was the sole television broadcaster in Bangladesh until the launch of ATN Bangla on satellite television in 1997, and Ekushey Television on terrestrial in 2000. As competition grew over the years, BTV declined and stagnated, and privately owned television channels gained more popularity among locals. However, up to 2003, Bangladesh Television had established fourteen relay stations, covering 93% of the country. In 2004, Bangladesh Television began international satellite broadcasts via BTV World. In March 2005, Ferdous Ara Begum was appointed the first female Director General of BTV. In April 2005, the Bangladeshi adaptation of Sesame Street, Sisimpur, debuted on BTV, which still airs the series as of today. Due to a power outage caused by the North Indian Ocean cyclone on 17 November 2007, BTV temporarily ceased transmissions for nearly three hours that day.
A new license office was inaugurated at the headquarters of BTV in 2008, according to a press release. In 2009, the government of Bangladesh decided to reserve terrestrial television frequencies in the country solely for Bangladesh Television. The BBC World Service developed two television series for BTV, Bishaash and BBC Janala Mojay Mojay Shekha, to promote the English language to Bangladeshi audiences. Both series premiered on the network in October 2010.
Its sister, Sangsad Television, was launched on 25 January 2011, which simultaneously broadcasts live programming from the Jatiya Sangsad Bhaban. On the same day, BTV commenced experimental broadcasts on digital terrestrial television in Dhaka, Chittagong, and Khulna. BTV was available for streaming on phones through Teletalk's 3G services in October 2012. On 5 November 2012, to compete with privately owned local television channels, BTV began broadcasting for 24 hours via satellite television, while still retaining the 18-hour broadcast on terrestrial.
In June 2014, an unused frequency of BTV was scrapped as it disrupted 3G services of mobile operators in Bangladesh. On 24 June 2014, as lightning struck on the tower of Bangladesh Television's Patuakhali relay station, terrestrial broadcasts from there temporarily halted, as a result of the damages caused by the lightning. BTV, along with GTV and Maasranga Television, broadcast the 2016 Asia Cup. Bangladesh Television opened the country's first television museum on 1 December 2016.
BTV, along with Maasranga Television and Nagorik, was the broadcaster of the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Bangladesh. The network began broadcasting in India via DD Free Dish on 2 September 2019, via the Bangabandhu-1 satellite. To celebrate BTV's 55th anniversary in 2019, privately owned Channel i organized a special program in its headquarters, which was broadcast on both networks. BTV inaugurated two new digital studios on 8 February 2020, at the BTV Bhaban, as a part of the network's renaissance. During the COVID-19 pandemic, BTV, along with Sangsad Television, began broadcasting educational programming for secondary-level students. It had also reaired some of its classic television series. BTV announced the establishment an educational channel to make remote learning more effective on students, which was also planned way back in 2008.
On 8 February 2021, Sohrab Hossain was appointed as Bangladesh Television's new director general. On 13 March 2021, Bangladesh Television announced that they will be establishing 6 more regional stations, which was originally to be accomplished by 2023. The network officially launched its app in May 2021, in which four channels, including BTV Dhaka, BTV Chittagong, BTV World, and Sangsad Television, can be streamed worldwide. It also planned to launch its own DTH service soon. Bangladesh Television inaugurated its high definition broadcasts on its 57th anniversary in 2021. On the same day, a Bangabandhu Corner dedicated to the first president of Bangladesh, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, was inaugurated at the headquarters of Bangladesh Television.
In May 2022, the Government of Bangladesh ordered the broadcast of BTV's channels in airports across the country. The High Court of Bangladesh revived the trial for the four BTV officials killed in 1975 on 31 August 2022, lifting a stay order issued on 25 April 2010. In October 2022, Bangladesh Television began airing the first 2D animated series fully produced in Bangladesh, Jungle Mangal. In November 2022, with the cost of 980 million BDT, Bangladesh Television gained the rights to air the 2022 FIFA World Cup held in Qatar. As there were allegations of corruption against the chief engineer of the television network, the Anti-Corruption Commission raided the headquarters of Bangladesh Television on 16 May 2023. In June 2023, Jahangir Alam was appointed as the new director general of Bangladesh Television.


==== 2024 arson attack ====
Amid the quota reform protests, some unidentified individuals stormed the headquarters of Bangladesh Television and set it ablaze on 18 July 2024. The main building was also vandalized. Following the incident, BTV ceased all broadcasts at approximately 19:00 BST, after evacuating all staff members. Broadcasts resumed the following day on 19 July at 16:00 (BST). Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina later visited the headquarter building on July 26 and called for the punishment of the perpetrators.


=== 2024–present: Post-revolution ===
On 18 August 2024, the adviser of information and broadcasting, Nahid Islam, called for the speedy modernization of all institutions under the Information and Broadcasting Ministry including BTV, criticizing them for being stagnant. He stated that BTV was more like the network itself of the 1980s and 1990s. On the same day, Jahangir Alam was removed as the director general, being appointed as the Officer on Special Duty in the Ministry of Public Administration. Nahid Islam later advised BTV not to broadcast any programming pleasing the government, and instead to work in favor of the people. Mahbubul Alam is appointed as the new director general of Bangladesh Television on 22 September 2024. The network launched its news-oriented channel, BTV News, on 31 December 2024.
On 19 June 2025, a five-member committee was formed ensuring the autonomy of Bangladesh Television and Bangladesh Betar, which would also review media policies during Hasina's premiership from 2009 to 2024 and work on a roadmap implementing the recommendations of the Media Reform Commission. On 12 August 2025, Bangladesh Television announced on its official social media pages that Notun Kuri would return to the air after two decades. It began airing again three days later. Along with Somoy TV and T Sports, BTV is the official Bangladeshi broadcaster of the 2026 FIFA World Cup. On 7 June 2026, the Cabinet Committee on Government Purchase approved a proposal for Bangladesh Television to acquire the all-media broadcasting rights of the 2026 FIFA World Cup directly from FIFA. On 6 August 2026, Kazi Jesin was announced as the new director general of Bangladesh Television on a one-year contractual basis.


== Operations ==


=== List of directors general ===


== Television stations ==

Bangladesh Television operates two main television stations in Dhaka and Chittagong, of which the station in Dhaka is relayed nationwide via its fourteen relay stations, known as upakendra (উপকেন্দ্র) in Bengali, throughout Bangladesh. About 2 million television sets in the country receive signals from BTV, which covers more than 90% of the Bangladeshi area. VHF Band III, UHF Band IV, and UHF Band V are reserved for use by Bangladesh Television.
The relay stations are located at Natore, Khulna, Mymensingh, Sylhet, Rangpur, Noakhali, Brahmanbaria, Thakurgaon, Rajshahi, Jhenaidah, Satkhira, Patuakhali, Ukhia, and Rangamati respectively. The network announced to establish six more regional BTV stations for the rest of Bangladesh's divisions, namely Barisal, Khulna, Mymensingh, Rajshahi, Rangpur, and Sylhet. The first station of BTV outside Dhaka was established in Natore in 1974. Later, more relay stations of BTV were established across the country. BTV's first contemporary regional television station was established in Chittagong in 1996.


=== Main television stations ===
BTV Dhaka or BTV National – The largest and main television station of Bangladesh Television, headquartered in Rampura and mostly branded on-air as 'BTV'. It commenced transmissions for the first time in 1964 as a PTV-affiliated station of Dacca in the then East Pakistan. After Bangladesh's independence, the station was rebranded as BTV and was the only major station until 1996. It is relayed nationwide via its terrestrial relay stations and formerly via BTV's satellite channel, BTV World. BTV Dhaka is a free-to-air television channel. It broadcasts on VHF channel 9 on analog terrestrial television and VHF channel 6 on digital terrestrial television.
BTV Chittagong – BTV's first and currently the sole regional television station, inaugurated in 1996. It began broadcasting on satellite television in 2016 and is the second terrestrial television station in Bangladesh. It broadcasts programming for the Chittagonians and the indigenous peoples of the Chittagong Hill Tracts. BTV Chittagong has been broadcasting on a full-day basis since 19 December 2021.


=== Relay television stations ===
BTV Natore  – The first television station of Bangladesh Television outside of Dhaka, inaugurated in 1974 by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. It was a regional station airing original programming but was later converted to a relay station simulcasting programming from BTV's Dhaka station in approximately September 1975, As of August 1989, BTV Natore broadcast on VHF channel 8 with a 90 kilowatt transmitter.
BTV Khulna – Experimental broadcasts from the station commenced in the year 1976. It subsequently went on the air on 11 March 1977. Despite numerous attempts, the station has not been able to be converted into a full-fledged regional television station as of today.
BTV Mymensingh – It was established in May 1979 on VHF channel 12 It is slated to be converted into a regional television station.
BTV Rajshahi – Originally planned prior to Bangladesh's independence, the decision to set up the station only occurred in 1994. The relay station was established on 13 June 2001 by the then prime minister Sheikh Hasina. Despite pledges and efforts, it has still not yet been converted.
BTV Rangpur – It was established in December 1978. It was announced on 8 January 2021 that it would be converted within the next two and a half years, although it is still yet to be converted.
BTV Sylhet – Originally planned to be established by the end of 1975, the station went operational in June 1977. An initiative was taken to convert the station to a full-fledged regional one, although it has not yet been converted as of today.


==== Other relay stations ====


=== Satellite television ===

BTV broadcasts worldwide through satellite television. An international channel, BTV World was launched on 11 April 2004, the same year when BTV itself also began broadcasting on satellite. BTV World broadcast on a full-day basis, and BTV's satellite feed simulcast the transmission of BTV World, when the channel closed down for the night, as the terrestrial feed shut off. BTV World was later shut down on 31 December 2024, being replaced with BTV News. BTV broadcasts in over 49 countries via the AsiaSat 7 satellite, covering almost the entire continent of Asia.
In 2016, BTV Chittagong began satellite transmissions with airtime hours increasing over time, which broadcast in 60 countries worldwide. In 2018, Bangladesh Television began broadcasting through the Bangabandhu-1 satellite, along with several other local television channels. Via the Bangabandhu-1 satellite, the network's television signals can be received in the Middle East and North Africa.


=== Specialized television channels ===


== Internet ==
Bangladesh Television is available on several social media platforms, including Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube. It has also been broadcasting live on IPTV and mobile TV services from 12 November 2013. Bangladesh Television's channels, along with Sangsad Television, are made available for streaming worldwide via the BTV app since May 2021.


== Logo ==

The logo of Bangladesh Television was created by a committee of artists comprising Mohiuddin Faroque, Quamrul Hassan, and Zainul Abedin, with chief art director Imdad Hossain finalising the design. Nevertheless, it is currently in use since then. The logo consists of a 60s-style television screen with a red disc and a green line inside, resembling a sunrise. It is one of the most recognizable logos in Bangladesh, as it has been used since the country itself gained independence.
Shortly after Kazi Jesin was appointed director general of BTV, the network posted on its official Facebook page on 30 August 2026, inviting the public to share new logo designs, due on 10 September, implying that BTV was changing its logo as part of reforms. This sudden decision was criticised by multiple prominent people, including actors Abul Hayat and Dolly Johur, singer Khurshid Alam, and former deputy director general Kha Ma Harun, who argued that a logo is merely a signature and changing it is not enough to transform the face of an institution.


== Programming ==

Bangladesh Television has a diversified set of programming. It mainly consists of dramas, news, educational, public affairs, talk shows, and others. It also broadcasts sports programming, typically cricket matches. BTV also airs English-language news and entertainment programming, including acquired foreign television series. During its anniversaries, Bangladesh Television broadcasts documentaries regarding the history of the network, such as DIT theke Rampura, which was aired on its 50th anniversary in 2014. The network terrestrially broadcasts from 7'o clock at morning to after 12 midnight. Its Chittagong station broadcasts all day, along with BTV World. BTV, however, also broadcasts all day on satellite and cable television. More than 90% of the programming broadcast on Bangladesh Television is produced by the network itself.
During the 1980s to 1990s, Bangladesh Television created several popular television series, such as Ei Shob Din Ratri, Bohubrihi, Ayomoy, Ityadi,  Kothao Keu Nei, Aaj Robibar, and many others. It has also aired several foreign television series, such as Alif Laila and The Sword of Tipu Sultan, which helped with the network's success. The era from the 1980s to the year 2000 was often called the "golden age" of Bangladesh Television. The network was also popular among Bengali-speaking populations in India near the country's border with Bangladesh during this time.
Following the fall of Sheikh Hasina's government, the programming structure of Bangladesh Television changed drastically. However, some programming was still found to be appeasing the government even if the interim government no longer mandated the network to do so. Three new series premiered on the network, which were Fascibader Dinlipi, Nipironer Golpo, regarding corruption and torture under the Awami League–led government, and Agamir Bangladesh, which premiered on 7 September 2024. For a long time, privately owned television channels were mandated to broadcast BTV's two o'clock news bulletin. This mandate was removed on 18 September 2024, when Information and Broadcasting Adviser Nahid Islam stated that the channels no longer need to do so.


== Reception ==
As of 2014, 1.2% of the television audience in Bangladesh watched BTV. The network's then director general, Haroon Or Rashid, once stated that if BTV does not change, it will become 'obsolete'.
By 2018, Bangladesh Television began regaining its fame and relevancy, after the network reformed its programming, which led to a tremendous increase in viewership. According to Hasanul Haq Inu, the then minister of information of Bangladesh, around 83% of the country's population watched BTV in that year.


== See also ==

List of television stations in Bangladesh
Mass media in Bangladesh


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
 Media related to Bangladesh Television at Wikimedia Commons

Molino de Villobas is a locality located in the municipality of Sabiñánigo, in Huesca province, Aragon, Spain. As of 2020, it has a population of 4.


== Geography ==
Molino de Villobas is located 46km north-northeast of Huesca.


== References ==

Juan López de Lezcano or Lazcano (fl. 1490–1518) was a Spanish admiral. He served during the reign of the Catholic Monarchs and the early reign of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor. He was known as a successful and innovative commander in both sea and land, pioneering naval armour and other tactics. 


== Biography ==
Born in Gipuzkoa, by 1490 he was serving in the Granada War. He later captured the pirate Juan de Cádiz and recognized the coast of the Kingdom of Tlemcen before the acquisition of the stronghold of Melilla. More famously, in 1500 he served under Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba in the siege of the Castle of Saint George, replacing Galcerán de Requesens as main admiral of his army.


=== Italian Wars ===
During the Italian Wars of 1499–1504, he faced French admiral Prégent de Bidoux, who was harassing the coast of the Spanish territories with six ships. With four galleys, Lezcano chased him to the Venetian colony of Otranto, where Bidoux took refuge. Lezcano sent messengers demanding Bidoux to be handed over for capturing two Spanish ships, but the Venetians refused on the ground of neutrality and blocked the port with a chain. The Spanish admiral then had the chain broken, entered Otranto and forcefully took the two ships. Before it could escalate to a full assault, Pregent handed over all the prisoners he had and had his ships scuttled. 
Later Pregent returned to the Spanish campaign with 35 ships, chasing Bernardo de Vilamarí to Ischia, but he had to turn away when Vilamarí, Lezcano and Ramón de Cardona came after with in a joined effort. They later blocked the port of Gaeta. Lezcano also participated in land warfare, especially the Battle of Garigliano, where he helped build the pontoon bridge used to cross the river. With the victory, the French were expelled from Naples. Lezcano also brought to Spain Prospero Colonna and his entourage including the captured Cesare Borgia.


=== Later career ===
During the capture of Mers-el-Kébir in 1505 by Ramón de Cardona, Lezcano commanded part of the fleet in an amphibious operation. In order to cover the landing of the troops, he and Flórez de Marquina brought three carracks armored with sacks of wool and algae and fitted with all possible artillery, including ribauldequin. Through this strategy, the ships got close to the citadel and attracted all the enemy fire while inflicting a heavy bombardment in turn. This was possibly the first tactical usage of naval armour.
In 1512 he escorted to Spain the English fleet led by Thomas Grey, Marquis of Dorsett, who intended to help the conquest of Navarra by King Ferdinand the Catholic. His death is unknown, but by 1518 he was still admiral when Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor and King of Spain took possession of the kingdom.


== Personal life ==
He married Leonor de Zúñiga y Navarra, whom he had a son with, Bernardino López de Lezcano.


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Fernández Duro, Cesáreo (1895). Armada Española, desde la unión de los reinos de Castilla y Aragón, tomo I. Instituto de Historia Naval.
Martín Gómez, Antonio L. (2000). El Gran Capitán: las Campañas del Duque de Terranova y Santángelo. Almena. ISBN 84-930713-1-5.
Nicieza Forcelledo, Guillermo (2025). Almirantes del Imperio: los grandes comandantes de las Armadas españolas del siglo XVI. EDAF. ISBN 9788441444430.

Johanne Marie de Malleville (1750-1817), was a favorite of queen Caroline Matilda of Denmark.


== Life ==
She was born to captain Emanuel Meyer and Johanne Mohlholm, and married captain Thomas de Malleville in 1763. After the queen had entered into a love affair with Struensee in 1770, a reform was introduced to allow non-nobles invitations to the royal table, were etiquette was relaxed, and members of the rich burgher class were commonly invited to dine with the royal family. Officially introduced as a reform through which the monarch was given opportunity to meet his subjects, the real reason was thought to be a wish to Struensee to introduce the queen to people outside of the nobility, among whom she could meet friends likely to be more favorable to his reforms. 
Johanne Marie Malleville belongs to those non-noble women invited who actually did become a personal friend and favorite of the queen. After having been introduced at one such informal dinner, Malleville was from that time forward often seen in the company of the queen at the card table and other events at court. In conservative circles, the presence of Malleville at court and among the friends of the queen was seen as shocking. The queen was already regarded to be exposed to bad influence from her circle of friends of Elisabet von Eyben, Anna Sofie von Bülow, Christine Sophie von Gähler and Amalie Sofie von Holstein, and the fact that the queen was allowed to mix with women not belonging to the nobility was seen as further scandalous, in particular as Malleville behaved at court as a noblewoman, losing considerable amounts of money at the card table and taking the lover of Anna Sofie Bülow, the courtier and noble Frederik Karl von Warnstedt, as a lover. 
At the fall of Struensee in January 1772, her spouse, in his capacity of a member of the military, actually belonged to those arresting Struensee. For this, he was awarded with a post in the colony of Saint Thomas in the Caribbean. Johanne Marie Malleville did not follow him there but remained in Copenhagen. In 1780, she divorced her spouse because of infidelity on his part and the following year she married count Verner Schulenburg.


== References ==

August Fjelstrup: Damerne ved Karoline Mathildes Hof, 1909.

Anthony Alexandro Racioppi (born 31 December 1998) is a Swiss professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for Sion.


== Club career ==
Racioppi made his professional debut for the French club Dijon on 8 October 2020 in a Ligue 1 game against Metz. On 10 January 2022, Racioppi signed a three-and-a-half-year deal with Swiss club Young Boys.
On 8 August 2024, Racioppi signed a three-year deal with EFL Championship club Hull City. He made his debut for the club just a few days later, on 14 August 2024, in Hull's 2–1 home defeat to Sheffield Wednesday in the first round of the EFL Cup.
On 31 January 2025, Racioppi moved to 1. FC Köln in German 2. Bundesliga on loan with an option to buy.
On 25 June 2025, Racioppi returned to Switzerland to join Swiss Super League side Sion for an undisclosed fee.


== International career ==
Born in Switzerland, Racioppi is of Italian descent through his father from Naples, and holds dual French-Swiss citizenship after years living in France. Considered as one of Switzerland's brightest prospects in his position, he had already stood out on the international stage thanks to his performances with the Switzerland U21 squad.


== Career statistics ==
As of match played 14 August 2024


== Honours ==
Young Boys

Swiss Super League: 2022–23
Swiss Cup: 2022–23
1.FC Koln

2.Bundesliga: 2024–25
Individual

Swiss Super League Team of the Year: 2025–26


== References ==


== External links ==
Anthony Racioppi at Soccerway
ASF Profile

Henry Nichols may refer to:

Henry E. Nichols (died 1899), U.S. Navy officer and the commander of the Department of Alaska
Henry F. C. Nichols (1833–1890), American politician
Henry L. Nichols (1823–1915), American physician and Democratic politician from California
Hank Nichols (1936–2026), American basketball referee
Hobart Nichols (Henry Hobart Nichols, Jr., 1869–1962), American landscape painter and illustrator


== See also ==
Harry Sidney Nichols (died 1939),  antiquarian book dealer and publisher and printer of high-end erotica
Henry Nicols (1973–2000), haemophiliac who became a campaigner for fellow AIDS victims
Henry Nicholls (disambiguation)

This is a comprehensive list of awards, honours and recognitions received by Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, the 12th and current President of Turkey.


== Foreign honours ==

 Russia :
Medal "In Commemoration of the 1000th Anniversary of Kazan" (1 June 2006)
 Pakistan :
Nishan-e-Pakistan, the highest civilian award in Pakistan (26 October 2009)
 Georgia :
Recipient of the Order of Golden Fleece, awarded for his contribution to development of bilateral relations (17 May 2010)

 Kosovo :
Golden Medal of the Order of Independence (4 November 2010)
 Kyrgyzstan :
Recipient of the Order of Danaker (2 February 2011)
 Kazakhstan :
Recipient of the Order of the Golden Eagle (11 October 2012)
Member 1st Class of the Order of Friendship (12 October 2022)
 Niger :
Grand Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic (9 January 2013)
 Azerbaijan :
Recipient of the Heydar Aliyev Order (3 September 2014)
 Afghanistan :
Order of Amanullah Khan (18 October 2014)
 Somalia :
Recipient of the Order of the Somali Star, awarded for his contributions to Somalia (25 January 2015).
 Albania :
National Flag Decoration (13 May 2015)
 Belgium :
Grand Cordon of the Order of Leopold (5 October 2015)
 Ivory Coast :
Grand Cordon of the National Order of the Ivory Coast (29 February 2016)
 Guinea :
Grand Cross of the National Order of Merit (3 March 2016)
 Madagascar :
Grand Cross of the National Order of Madagascar (25 January 2017)
 Bahrain :
Member Exceptional Class of the Order of Sheikh Isa bin Salman Al Khalifa (12 February 2017)
 Kuwait :
Collar of the Order of Mubarak the Great (21 March 2017)
 Sudan :
Collar of Honour of Sudan (24 December 2017)
 Tunisia :
Grand Cordon of the Order of the Republic (27 December 2017)
 Senegal :
Grand Cross of the National Order of the Lion (1 March 2018)
 Mali :
Grand Cordon of the National Order of Mali (2 March 2018)
 Moldova :
Recipient of the Order of the Republic (18 October 2018)
 Gagauzia :
Recipient of the Order of Gagauz-Yeri in Comrat (17 October 2018)
 Paraguay :
Recipient of the Order of State (2 December 2018)
 Venezuela :
Grand Cordon of the Order of the Liberator (3 December 2018)
 Ukraine :
Member 1st Degree of the Order of Prince Yaroslav the Wise (16 October 2020)
 Turkmenistan :
Recipient of the Order for Contribution to the Development of Cooperation (27 November 2021)
 Malaysia :
Recipient of the Order of the Crown of the Realm (16 August 2022)
 Uzbekistan :
Collar of the Imam al Bukhari Order (10 November 2022)
 United Arab Emirates :
Collar of the Order of Zayed (19 July 2023)
 Oman :
Collar of the Order of Al-Said (28 November 2024)
 Jordan :
Collar of the Order of Al-Hussein bin Ali (7 February 2026)
 Algeria:
Athir National Order of Merit (7 May 2026)


== Supranational honours ==
 Organization of Turkic States :
Supreme Order of Turkic World (11 November 2022)


== Honorary doctorates ==


== Awards, recognitions and accolades ==
29 January 2004: Profile of Courage Award from the American Jewish Congress, for promoting peace between cultures.
Returned at the request of the A.J.C. in July 2014.
13 June 2004: Golden Plate award from the Academy of Achievement during the conference in Chicago.
3 October 2004: German Quadriga prize for improving relationships between different cultures.
2 September 2005: Mediterranean Award for Institutions (Italian: Premio Mediterraneo Istituzioni). This was awarded by the Fondazione Mediterraneo.
8 August 2006: Caspian Energy Integration Award from the Caspian Integration Business Club.
1 November 2006: Outstanding Service award from the Turkish humanitarian organization Red Crescent.
2 February 2007: Dialogue Between Cultures Award from the President of Tatarstan Mintimer Shaimiev.
15 April 2007: Crystal Hermes Award from the German Chancellor Angela Merkel at the opening of the Hannover Industrial Fair.
11 July 2007: Agricola Medal, the highest award of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, in recognition of his contribution to agricultural and social development in Turkey.
11 May 2009: Avicenna award from the Avicenna Foundation in Frankfurt, Germany.
29 December 2009: Award for Contribution to World Peace from the Turgut Özal Thought and Move Association.
12 January 2010: King Faisal International Prize for "service to Islam" from the King Faisal Foundation.
23 February 2010: Nodo Culture Award from the mayor of Seville for his efforts to launch the Alliance of Civilizations initiative.
1 March 2010: United Nations–HABITAT award in memorial of Rafik Hariri. A seven-member international jury unanimously found Erdoğan deserving of the award because of his "excellent achievement and commendable conduct in the area of leadership, statesmanship and good governance. Erdoğan also initiated the first roundtable of mayors during the Istanbul conference, which led to a global, organized movement of mayors."
31 May 2010: World Health Organization 2010 World No Tobacco Award for "his dedicated leadership on tobacco control in Turkey."
29 June 2010: 2010 World Family Award from the World Family Organization which operates under the umbrella of the United Nations.
25 November 2010: Leader of the Year award presented by the Union of Arab Banks in Lebanon.
11 January 2011: Outstanding Personality in the Islamic World Award of the Sheikh Fahad al-Ahmad International Award for Charity in Kuwait.
25 October 2011: Palestinian International Award for Excellence and Creativity (PIA) 2011 for his support to the Palestinian people and cause.
21 January 2012: Gold Statue 2012 Special Award by the Polish Business Center Club (BCC). Erdoğan was awarded for his systematic effort to clear barriers on the way to economic growth, striving to build democracy and free market relations.


== Key to the city ==
25 June 2009: Key to the City of Tirana on the occasion of his state visit to Albania.


== Others ==
9 June 2009: Prix de la Fondation and guest of honour at the 20th Crans Montana Forum in Brussels, for democracy and freedom.
27 May 2010: Medal of honour from the Brazilian Federation of Industry for the State of São Paulo (FIESP) for his contributions to industry.
4 November 2010: Golden Medal of Independence, an award conferred upon Kosovo citizens and foreigners that have contributed to the independence of Kosovo.
2020: Ig Nobel Prize in medical information, a satirical award that was shared with Jair Bolsonaro, Boris Johnson, Narendra Modi, Andrés Manuel López Obrador, Alexander Lukashenko, Donald Trump, and Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow.


== References ==

Dhandari Kalan railway station a railway station on Ambala–Attari line under Firozpur railway division of Northern Railway zone. This is situated beside National Highway 44 at Dhandari Kalan, Ludhiana in Ludhiana district in the Indian state of Punjab.


== History ==
Amritsar–Attari line was completed in 1862. the electrification of the line was completed in different period. Shahbad Markanda-Mandi Gobindgarh sector was electrified in 1995–96, the Mandi Gobindgarh–Ludhiana sector in 1996–97, the Phillaur–Phagwara sector in 2002–03, and the Phagwara–Jallandhar City–Amritsar in 2003–04.


== Station layout ==
The station consists of three platforms with standard on-ground infrastructure. Basic passenger amenities are available, including shelters and ticketing facilities.


== Services ==
The station is served primarily by passenger trains and MEMU trains on the Ambala–Attari line. Major nearby railway stations include Ludhiana Junction and Sahnewal.


== Freight operations ==
The station is located within the industrial belt of Ludhiana and supports freight movement related to local industries. It is situated near logistics and inland freight facilities serving the region.


== Amrit Bharat Station Scheme ==
Dhandari Kalan railway station has been identified for redevelopment under the Amrit Bharat Station Scheme, under which multiple stations in Punjab are being modernised with improved passenger amenities and infrastructure.


== Connectivity ==
The station is located along National Highway 44 and is connected to Ludhiana city by road. Public transport options such as buses and auto-rickshaws are available for last-mile connectivity.


== References ==

There are many types of car body styles. They vary depending on intended use, market position, location, and the era they were made.


== Current styles ==


== Historic styles ==


== See also ==


== References ==


=== Bibliography ===
Clough, Albert L. (1913). A dictionary of automobile terms. The Horseless Age. LCCN 13003001. Retrieved 3 January 2023 – via Internet Archive.
Haajanen, Lennart W. (2003). Illustrated Dictionary of Automobile Body Styles. Illustrations by Bertil Nydén and Jörgen Persson. Jefferson, NC: McFarland. ISBN 978-0-7864-1276-1.

Herbert George "Jock" Austin (16 March 1938 − 3 May 1990) was an Indigenous Australian community leader. He was a Gunditjmara man who served as the coach and president of the Fitzroy Stars Football Club in its early years.


== Biography ==
Austin was born in 1938 under a gumtree at Framlingham Aboriginal Reserve as the son of Ella Clark and Cyril Austin. He had eleven siblings.
He moved to the inner-Melbourne suburb of Fitzroy in the 1950s where met Patricia Prior, whom he raised two children with. He participated in Australian rules football and boxing, while also working as a boilermaker and having a job laying tramway track.
Austin founded the Melbourne Aboriginal Youth Sport and Recreation Co-operative (MAYSAR), an Aboriginal youth sport centre and boxing gym, in 1982.
In the 1970s, Austin became associated with the newly-formed Fitzroy Stars Football Club, a football club run by Indigenous Australians. He introduced the club's first junior team in 1978. After the Northern Metropolitan Football League – which the Stars were competing in, disbanded in 1980 – Austin was a driving force in the club staying afloat.
When the YCW Football League (YCWFL) folded in 1986, the Stars applied for entry in 36 local competitions, but received rejections from every single one. As a result, Austin (who was also serving as club administrator) formed the Melbourne North Football League (MNFL) in 1989.
Austin's son, Troy Austin, is also a former Fitzroy Stars president and currently serves as a member of the First Peoples' Assembly of Victoria after being elected in 2023.


== References ==

Brighton Reservation is an Indian reservation of the Seminole Tribe of Florida, located in northeast Glades County near the northwest shore of Lake Okeechobee. It is one of six reservations held in trust by the federal government for this tribe. The reservation has a land area of approximately 146 square kilometers or 36,000 acres and a 2000 census resident population of 566 persons.
Some residents of the reservation speak the Muscogee language (or Creek), which is different from the Mikasuki language of other Seminoles and the Miccosukee tribe. Fewer than 200 people on the reservation speak Muscogee, which is the largest number of speakers in Florida and outside of Oklahoma. The Muscogee language is considered "definitely endangered" by UNESCO.

The Florida guide referred to a "Seminole Village" in 1939, south of the town of Brighton, on a 35,660-acre reservation: Here approximately 100 Indians are employed on CCC projects in road building, fencing, water development, and revegetation. All this group are Cow Creek, or Muskogee, differing in language from the Big Cypress Indians of the west coast, who are Mikasuki. Reservation Indians farm the center of cleared hammocks and herd some 800 head of Hereford and Angus cattle on a subsistence basis. Families live in groups of palm-thatched chuckoos, 10 feet by 12 feet, containing raised sleeping platforms covered with mosquito netting. One chuckoo serves as the family dining room, another as the kitchen. Both children and adults receive instruction in the village school, which is equipped with modern facilities, including a community workroom and shop, men's and women's showers, and a laundry.
To serve the Seminole cattle business, "The Red Barn" was built in 1941 with help from the Civilian Conservation Corps. Hurricane Wilma damaged the roof, which was replaced in 2005.
The Seminole Tribe of Florida operates the Brighton Seminole Casino here, a 27,000-square-foot casino with 375-slot and gaming machines, a seven-table poker room, and high-stake bingo seats, with full-service restaurant and lounge. 


== Other reservations ==
The other five Seminole Tribe of Florida reservations are:

Big Cypress Reservation, the largest territory, including 81.972 sq mi (212.306 km2), in Broward and Hendry Counties
Hollywood Reservation (formerly called the Dania Reservation), 497 acres (2.01 km2) acres, Broward County
Immokalee Reservation, Collier County
Fort Pierce Reservation, a 50 acres (0.20 km2) site in St. Lucie County, taken into trust for the tribe in 1995 by the United States Department of the Interior
Tampa Reservation, located in Hillsborough County


== Notes ==


== References ==
Mahon, John K.; Brent R. Weisman (1996). "Florida's Seminole and Miccosukee Peoples". In Gannon, Michael (Ed.). The New History of Florida, pages 183–206. University Press of Florida. ISBN 0-8130-1415-8.
Pritzker, Barry M. A Native American Encyclopedia: History, Culture, and Peoples. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2000. ISBN 978-0-19-513877-1.


== External links ==
Seminole Tribe of Florida, official website
Brighton Reservation, Florida, United States Census Bureau
Brighton Seminole Indian Reservation Cemetery, Glades County, Florida, US GenWeb

Events from the year 1133 in Ireland.


== Incumbents ==
High King: Toirdelbach Ua Conchobair


== Events ==
A major epidemic affecting cattle occurred, called maelgarbh (“cow mortality”), described as unprecedented since an earlier great mortality of cattle.
A raid on Ardbraccan occurred in this year.


== Deaths ==
Flaithbheartach Ua Flaithbheartaigh, killed by the son of Lochlainn Ua Lochlainn.


== References ==

There is also a Diocese of Barisal (and a Bishop of Barisal) in the united Church of Bangladesh.
The Roman Catholic Diocese of Barisal is a Latin suffragan bishopric in the ecclesiastical province of the Metropolitan of Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Chittagong. However it remains dependent on the missionary Roman Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples.
Its cathedral episcopal see is St. Peter's Cathedral, in Barisal.


== Statistics ==
As per 2015, it pastorally served 29,685 Catholics (0.2% of 15,183,927 total) on 20,708 km2 in 5 parishes with 19 priests (13 diocesan, 6 religious), 33 lay religious (4 brothers, 29 sisters) and 3 seminarians.


== History ==
Established on 29 December 2015 as Diocese of Barisal, on territory split off from Diocese of Chittagong, suffragan of the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Dhaka.
Since Chittagong was promoted to Metropolitan Archdiocese in February 2017, Barisal become one of its two original suffragans.


== Episcopal ordinaries ==
(all Latin Church, so far members of Latin missionary congregations)

Suffragan Bishops of Barisal
Lawrence Subrata Howlader, Holy Cross Fathers (C.S.C.) (2015.12.29 – 2021.02.19); previously Titular Bishop of Afufenia (2009.05.07 – 2015.12.29) & Auxiliary Bishop of mother diocese Chittagong
Emmanuel Kanon Rozario (2022.06.21 – ...)


== References ==


== Sources and external links ==
catholic-hierarchy
GCatholic

The Indian locomotive class WCM-6 is a class of 1.5 kV DC electric locomotives that was developed in 1995 by Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW) for Indian Railways. The model name stands for broad gauge (W), Direct Current (C), Mixed traffic (M) engine, 6th generation (6). They entered service in 1996. A total of 2 WCM-6 locomotives was built at CLW in 1995. Currently they are used on departmental trains and shunting duties.


== History ==
The history of WCM-6 begins in the early 1990s with the stated aim of the Indian Railways (IR) to remove the aging fleet of WCM class locomotives working in the Central Railway zone (CR). So IR to procure two 1,500 V DC electric locomotives from Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW), who also previously supplied the WCM-5 class. They had high adhesion bogies used in the WAG-7 class AC locomotive.
The two WCM-6s were manufactured in India in 1995. Not counting the dual-voltage WCAM/WCAG series, they were one of only two classes of DC locomotives to have a "boxcab" body style, the other being the WCG-2 class of 1970.
On 28 August 2008, both WCM-6s were converted to work on 25 kV AC by the Electric Locomotives Works of Bhusawal, but retained their WCM-6 designation. Both locomotives are based at Kalyan depot, and are in inferior service as of March 2026.


== Locomotive shed ==


=== Former sheds ===
Ajni
Bhusuwal (BSL)


== See also ==
Rail transport in India § History
Indian Railways
Locomotives of India
Rail transport in India


== References ==


== External links ==
WCM-6 FAQ
Loco FAQ
India railway fan club

George W. Hoover was an American land developer, who was a pioneer in Hollywood, California.
Hoover was born in Lancaster, Pennsylvania, and, when grown, he went to Nebraska and took up farming on a government land claim. He then moved to York, Pennsylvania, where he opened a soap factory at College Avenue and Newberry Street. In the flood of 1889, the building was destroyed and Hoover became almost penniless. He then began a carriage business on North George Street, the site of the former York Railway freight station, where he "made his fortune."
In York, he lived at 119 North George Street. His shop was at 15-17 East Philadelphia Street, later occupied by the Dispatch Publishing Company.


== Hollywood ==
Hoover moved to Hollywood, California, in 1899, 1900, or 1901 and purchased a 6.5-acre ranch on Hollywood Boulevard between Vine Street and Ivar Street "for a consideration of a little over $7,000." His home address became 6307 Hollywood Boulevard, on the northwest corner of Hollywood and Vine.
In 1903 he was vice president of the Santa Ana Tin Mining Co. By 1904 he had become president of the Bank of Hollywood. 
In 1904 he joined with others to form a company called Hotel Hollywood, to enlarge an existing building "and refurnish it throughout." In that same year he became a member of the first jury ever to be impaneled in the city of Hollywood when a man named J.W. Jeals was tried for selling liquor in violation of a city ordinance, Hollywood being a "dry" jurisdiction at the time. The jury could not decide, and the defendant was held over for another trial.
He was elected Hollywood's first city treasurer before the city was merged with Los Angeles in 1910.


== Death ==
Hoover died on January 28, 1924, in his home. He was survived by his wife, Mary C.; two daughters, Mrs. Harry E. Rodenhaus of Pasadena, California, and Mary (Mrs. George or John S.) Walker of Hollywood, and two sons, George W. Jr. and Frank K., both of Hollywood.
A funeral service was conducted on February 2, 1924, in the Strother and Dayton chapel, 6240 Hollywood Boulevard, with the Rev. S.T. Westhaven officiating. Interment followed in the Hollywood Cemetery mausoleum.
His estate was divided equally among his widow and children, the state inheritance tax being a "large" one of $16,319. His property at Hollywood and Vine was sold to Carl Laemmle for $325,000.


== References ==


== External links ==
George W. Hoover record in Find A Grave

Elena Lunda (1896–unknown) was an Italian actress known for her work in silent films. She was the daughter of Vittorio Lunda Gondola (Gundulić) from Ragusa/Dubrovnik and Celeste Grossi.
She was married to actor Alfredo Bertone and appeared in 35 Italian silent films between 1919 and 1928.


== Selected filmography ==
The Sphinx (1920)
The Knot (1921)
The Second Wife (1922)
La Boheme (1923)
The Redemption (1924)
Take Care of Amelia (1925)
Women You Rarely Greet (1925)
Women Who Fall by the Wayside (1925)
The Assmanns (1925)
The Man on the Comet (1925)
The Love Trap (1925)
The Ride in the Sun (1926)
The Giant of the Dolomites (1927)
Company and the Crazy (1928)
The Last Tsars (1928)
Company and the Crazy (1928)


== References ==


== External links ==
Elena Lunda at IMDb
Elena Lunda at Filmportal.de

Syngamia liquidalis is a moth in the family Crambidae. It was described by Zeller in 1852. It is found in Cameroon, the Democratic Republic of Congo (Katanga, Equateur, East Kasai) and South Africa.


== References ==

Neftçi Peşəkar Futbol Klubu, known simply as Neftçi (pronounced [nefˈtʃi], lit. 'Oilmen') or Neftchi Baku, is an Azerbaijani professional football club based in the capital Baku, that plays in the Azerbaijan Premier League, the highest tier of Azerbaijan football. The club was founded on 18 March 1937 and played under the name of Neftyanik until 1968. Since then, the club has been competing under the name of Neftçi.
Neftçi played for a total of 27 seasons in the Top Division of Soviet football. The main achievement of that period is the bronze medals of the USSR Championship won in 1966. Neftçi has won nine Azerbaijan Premier League titles, six Azerbaijan Cups and two Azerbaijan Supercup titles. The club is one of the two teams in Azerbaijan, along with Qarabağ, which has participated in all Azerbaijan Premier League championships so far.
In 2012, Neftçi became the first Azerbaijani club to advance to the group stage of a European competition after defeating APOEL 4–2 on aggregate in the play-off round of the 2012–13 UEFA Europa League. Neftçi plays its matches at the Neftçi Arena in Baku, which also serves as the venue for Azerbaijan national team matches.


== History ==


=== Soviet era (1937–1991) ===

The club was founded on 18 March 1937 and played under the name of Neftyanik until 1968. The first official match of Neftyanik took place on May 24, 1937. In the 1/64 finals of the Soviet Cup, Neftyanik beat FC Dinamo Yerevan (1:0). The goal scored by Pavel Shtyrlin in the 87th minute was the first in the history of Neftçi.
The team, which has played since the USSR championships in the group G, took the 11th place among 12 participants. In the same year, in the matches for the USSR Cup, Neftyanik, although he won in 1/64 and 1/32 finals in the Dinamo teams from Yerevan and Batumi, lost in the 1/16 finals, to the Dinamo Tbilisi.
Between 1938 and 1941, Neftyanik also played in local Azerbaijani and Caucasus championships. At the start of World War II, the players had to join the army. Mirmehdi Aghayev, who played for the club before the war, was among those killed in action. As the war drew to an end, the team gradually resumed operations and in 1944, Neftyanik returned to the Azerbaijani championship, becoming champions the following year.

Neftyanik competed in the 2nd Group of the USSR championship in 1946–1948, and qualified for the first time in its history for the 1st Group (Top League) in 1949. After Temp Baku, which played only in one season in the 1st Group eleven years ago, Neftyanik became the second representative of the Republic at that level in the history of Azerbaijan football. The first Top League match was against the VVS Moscow at the then Lenin Stadium (now Ismat Gayibov Stadium). In this historic match, the team won with a score of 1:0. The first goal in group A of the championship of the USSR was recorded by Viktor Anoshkin. They finished the Top Division in 14th place in their debut season. Playing in the Top Division for two consecutive years, Neftyanik left it in 1950 and had to play in the Class B again. The team qualified for the second time in its history for the Top League in 1960, and by playing regularly in the Top League during 1960–1965.
The 1966 season stands out in the history of Neftçi, as the club achieved its biggest success in the USSR championships by finishing third. By beating Spartak Moscow 3:0 in the last game of the championship in the current Tofiq Bahramov Republican Stadium on 30 November, the Black and Whites, coached by 31-year-old Ahmad Alaskarov, reached 45 points and finished only two points short of the second-placed Rostov Army Club. Dynamo Kyiv won the championship with 56 points. Two years later, in 1968, the club began the 30th USSR championship as Neftçi rather than Neftyanik.
Neftçi dropped to the Second Division in 1972 and spent the 1973–76 seasons there. Elbrus Abbasov played a great role in the team's comeback. By scoring 28 goals, he became the Second Division's top scorer, helping the Black and Whites finish second and qualify for the top flight again. In 1987 season, Neftçi coached by Aghasalim Mirjavadov, finished the championship in 9th place, registering its best performance since 1971. The team was known for its attacking trio which included Isgandar Javadov, Mashalla Ahmadov and Igor Ponomaryov. 1988 was a disappointing season for the club, as they finished 15th and were relegated to the Second Division. Aghasalim Mirjavadov coached them in the first half of the season and Yuriy Kuznetsov in the second, but neither could save the team from relegation.


=== Domestic hegemony (1991–2012) ===

Neftçi won the first Azerbaijani national championship having begun as clear favourites, since many of the players playing for the club at the end of the Soviet period remained. The team was coached by Ahmad Alaskarov. Another success came three years later. In 1995, Neftçi, led by Vagif Sadygov, defeated all rivals in the fight for the Cup of Azerbaijan. 1995–1996 season, Neftçi finished with a "golden double" — won the national championship and became the owner of the Cup. This success was achieved thanks to the efforts of coaches Vagif Sadygov, Asif Aliyev and Kazbek Tuaev.
In 2006, Neftçi managed to win the CIS Cup after defeating FBK Kaunas of Lithuania in the final. In European competitions, the club also have advanced to the second qualifying round of the UEFA Champions League twice, having defeated Bosnian champions – NK Široki Brijeg – and Icelandic champions – FH Hafnarfjarðar – in 2004 and 2005 respectively.  Neftçi advanced to the third round of the 2008 Intertoto Cup, after defeating the Slovak club FC Nitra and the Belgian side K.F.C. Germinal Beerschot in the first two rounds.
A long period of decline followed the success of the 2005 to the end of the decade. Despite the appointment of famous names such as Gurban Gurbanov, Vlastimil Petržela, Anatoliy Demyanenko and Hans-Jürgen Gede, the club did not achieve any success and squandered large sums of money on unsuccessful signings.
Prospects changed positively in December 2009 when the club's control was given to Sadıq Sadıqov. The takeover was immediately followed by a flurry of bids for high-profile international players such as Bahodir Nasimov, Nicolás Canales, Flavinho, Bruno Bertucci, Eric Ramos, Igor Mitreski and Julius Wobay. In May 2011, coached by Arif Asadov, the club won its sixth championship title. Asadov also become the first person in Azerbaijan to win the league title as a coach and football player. However, Asadov was dismissed after the defeat to Dinamo Zagreb in the qualifying round of the Champions League 2011–2012 season.
In the 2011–12 season, Boyukagha Hajiyev guided Neftçi to another domestic success as the club become champions for seventh time in their history. In November 2011, Neftçi celebrated its 1,000th victory in official matches and its 1,000th goal in Azerbaijan League, scored by Araz Abdullayev.


=== European breakthrough (2012–present) ===

In 2012, Neftçi qualified for the 2012–13 UEFA Europa League group stage, being the first Azerbaijani team to advance to this stage in a European competition. Neftçi managed to get three points in six matches, drawing with Partizan both times and holding Internazionale away at the San Siro.
A third consecutive Premier League title followed in 2012–13. Neftçi then won the Azerbaijan Cup on 28 May 2013 to secure the domestic double. Following Neftçi's early exit from European cups, Boyukagha Hajiyev resigned from his post. Following defeat at 2013 Azerbaijan Supercup, Nazim Suleymanov was appointed as Neftçi's new manager after Tarlan Ahmadov was sacked just three months in charge. On 8 January 2014, Suleymanov resigned as manager after a transfer fund dispute. In May 2014, despite finishing fourth, Neftçi managed to win Azerbaijan Cup. In August 2014, the club reached Europa League play-off round after defeating Chikhura Sachkhere on aggregate.
On 2 November 2014, Neftçi club president Sadygov stated that the club was experiencing financial difficulties. In 2015, it was announced that the club would become a public limited company – Neftchi PLC, while the club's new president would be Chingiz Abdullayev.
On 8 June 2018, Roberto Bordin was announced as Neftçi's new manager on a two-year contract. Under the head coach of Roberto Bordin, the team finished Azerbaijan Premier League in second place and they have advanced two qualifying rounds in the UEFA Europa League. On 18 January 2020, the club officially announced that the contract with Bordin mutually terminated, and he was replaced temporarily by his assistant Fizuli Mammadov.
On 11 November 2020, Samir Abasov was appointed manager. The contract between the parties was signed until the end of the 2021/2022 season. In the first season under his coach, the club won the Azerbaijan Premier league after 7 years again.
On 11 July 2023, Adrian Mutu was appointed as Neftçi's new Head Coach on a two-year contract.
On June 26, 2024, Roman Hryhorchuk was appointed as club's head coach. On October 7, 2024, his contract with the club was terminated by mutual agreement. Under his leadership, Neftçi played in 9 rounds of the Azerbaijani Premier League, recording 5 draws and 4 losses.


== Grounds ==

Neftçi's current home venue is the 11,000 capacity Neftçi Arena. It has been the club's home since the 2012–13 season.
Neftçi's home matches are usually played at Tofiq Bahramov Stadium in Baku until 2012. Built by German prisoners of war in 1951 and constructed in the shape of a "C" to honour Joseph Stalin, it was renamed after famous football referee Tofiq Bahramov in 1993 after his death. The stadium also serves as the home ground of the Azerbaijan national football team and holds 31,200 spectators, making it the second-largest stadium in the country.


== Supporters ==

Neftçi is one of the most supported clubs in Azerbaijan, with supporters organized in many fan clubs around the world, including the United States, Turkey, Russia and any other country with a sizeable Azerbaijani community. Neftçi's fans are the first to bring Ultras Culture to Azerbaijan. Various companies were Neftçi's number of participating groups. Among them are "Flaqman", "Ultra Neftçi", "Neftçimania" and Forza Neftçi. Currently, the biggest fan group of the club is "Forza Neftçi". In the 2010s, although Neftçi improved its position, the average attendance fell to record low levels.
The club's most popular celebrity supporters are the likes of actors Bahram Bagirzade, Bashir Safaroglu and Lutfali Abdullayev, composers Gara Garayev, Fikrat Amirov and Niyazi, judoka Ilham Zakiyev and scientist Mirali Qashqai.


== Rivalry ==


=== Rivalry with Khazar Lankaran ===

Matches between Neftçi and Khazar Lankaran are some of the biggest clashes in Azerbaijan. The relationship between the two clubs has always been known for its great animosity, as the classic opposes two geographic regions – with Neftçi and Khazar Lankaran representing the north and south of Azerbaijan, respectively.


== Recent seasons ==
Statistics from the previous decade. For a full history see; List of Neftçi PFK seasons

Key

Rank = Rank in the league; P = Played; W = Win; D = Draw; L = Loss; F = Goals for; A = Goals against; GD = Goal difference; Pts = Points; Cup = Azerbaijan Cup; CL = UEFA Champions League; EL = UEFA Europa League; ECL = UEFA Europa Conference League.
in = Still in competition; – = Not attended; 1R = 1st round; 2R = 2nd round; 3R = 3rd round; 1QR = 1st qualifying round; 2QR = 2nd qualifying round; 3QR = 3rd qualifying round; PO = Play-off round; GS = Group stage; R16 = Round of sixteen; QF = Quarter-finals; SF = Semi-finals.


== Crest and colours ==

In 1937 Baku had already gained a reputation as an oil city. Therefore, those working in the field of "black gold" soon formed a football team on 18 March 1937. But they didn't have to think much about the name. They gave own names to the team. The color of "black gold" also formed the basis of the form. At that time, along with oil, cotton, called "white gold", played no less a role in the glory of the Azerbaijani SSR than oil, so it was decided that the color of cotton should be reflected in the form. Since then, Neftçi, has remained faithful to black-white.
1949 means for history of Neftçi not less than the year of its establishment. That year taking part under the name Neftyanik, the club was qualified for the first time in its history for the Soviet Top League. A radical changes were made in the staff of Neftyanik with the aim to provide successes of the team among Football elite. Also the team logotype was made. The emblem was the letter "Н" of the Cyrillic Alphabet against the background of an oil rig – the first letter of the word Neftyannik. The logo of Neftçi has been changed four times, in 1977, 1997, 2004  and in 2024.


=== Shirt sponsors and kit manufacturers ===

Neftçi's traditional kit was composed of black shirts, white shorts and socks of the same colour. Although through the years these two have gone from alternating between white and black stripes.


== Sponsorship ==
On February 7, 2025, Neftçi signed a five-year sponsorship agreement with "Palms Sports," owned by International Holding Company. The club's Chief Executive Director, Cenk Sümer, stated that the revenue from the agreement accounted for 30% of the club's annual income.


== European record ==

The club have participated in 23 editions of the club competitions governed by UEFA, the chief authority for football across Europe.  Counting all of the 83 games the side have played in UEFA competitions since their first entry into the Cup Winners' Cup in the 1995–96 season, the team's record stands at 27 wins, 20 draws and 37 defeats.

As of match played 5 August 2026


=== Matches ===
As of 5 August 2026


== Players ==


=== Current squad ===
As of 7 September 2026

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.

For recent transfers, see Transfers summer 2026.


=== Out on loan ===

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


=== Retired numbers ===
9 –  Anatoliy Banishevskiy, striker, played for his entire career at Neftçi from 1963 to 1978 (posthumous honour). The number was retired on June 1, 2026, and the decision was announced on February 23, 2026, on the footballer's 80th birthday. 


=== Reserve team ===
Neftçi-2 plays in the Azerbaijan Reserve League.


== Honours ==


=== Azerbaijan ===

Azerbaijan League
Winners (9): 1992, 1995–96, 1996–97, 2003–04, 2004–05, 2010–11, 2011–12, 2012–13, 2020–21
Runners-up (5): 2000–01, 2006–07, 2018–19, 2019–20, 2021–22
Third place (7): 1994–95, 1998–99, 1999–2000, 2005–06, 2007–08, 2017–18, 2022–23
Azerbaijan Cup
Winners (6): 1994–95, 1995–96, 1998–99, 2003–04, 2012–13, 2013–14
Runners-up (5): 2000–01, 2011–12, 2014–15, 2015–16, 2022–23
Azerbaijan Supercup
Winners (2): 1993, 1995
Runners-up (1): 2013


=== USSR ===
Soviet Top League
Third place (1): 1966
Soviet First League
Runners-up (1): 1976
Third place (1): 1954
Soviet Cup
Semi-finalist (4): 1966–67, 1967–68, 1970, 1971
USSR Federation Cup
Runners-up (1): 1988


=== European ===
UEFA Intertoto Cup
Runners-up (1): 2008 (joint runners-up)


=== International ===
Commonwealth of Independent States Cup
Winners (1): 2006
Runners-up (1): 2005


== Coaches and administration ==


== Presidential history ==
Neftçi has had numerous presidents over the course of its history, some of whom have been owners of the club while others have been honorary presidents. In 1988, Neftçi had registered as a professional football club and club since then had ten presidents.


== Notable managers ==

The following individuals have all won at least one trophy while coaching Neftçi:


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Wilson, Jonathan (2006). Behind the Curtain: Football in Eastern Europe: Travels in Eastern European Football. Orion. ISBN 0752879456.


== External links ==

Official website (in Azerbaijani, English, and Russian)
Neftçi PFK's official channel on YouTube

Dave Panichi is an Australian jazz Musician, trombonist and composer who began his professional musical career in 1975.
In 1981 Panichi moved to New York, where he lived for 18 years.  During this time he performed with notable artists including the Buddy Rich Big Band, Toshiko Akiyoshi, Blood Sweat & Tears, Slide Hampton, Bob Mintzer, Maria Schneider, Frank Sinatra, Sarah Vaughan, Joe Williams, Aretha Franklin, Mel Tormé, Peabo Bryson, Dave Liebman, Mulgrew Miller and Marc Copland.
In 2000, Panichi moved back to Australia where he is currently active in teaching, performing, and composing. He is currently a casual lecturer in trombone at Sydney Conservatorium of Music.
Drummer Buddy Rich threatened to fire Panichi during his time with Rich's band for having a beard. The altercation was taped and included in a series of bootlegs showcasing Rich's temper.


== Awards ==
Don Banks Memorial Scholarship by the Australia Council


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
ANU Staff Profile

Pico's School is a 1999 point-and-click Flash game developed by Tom Fulp for his website Newgrounds. At the time of its release, it was "one of the most sophisticated" browser games, exhibiting "a complexity of design and polish in presentation that [was] virtually unseen in amateur Flash game development". It has been widely credited with kickstarting the Flash games scene and helping launch Newgrounds "as a public force".
The game was inspired by the Columbine High School massacre, and was released only three months after the event. It centers around the titular Pico, a young boy who must fight a group of stereotypical goth kids who have killed his classmates.


== Plot ==
During a school lesson, Pico's classmate Cassandra interrupts the class to denounce the American education system, which she believes to be "bullshit", before opening fire upon her fellow students. Pico blacks out during the chaos, managing to escape the classroom only to discover the majority of his classmates have been killed. As Pico fights the goth kids, he discovers they are being manipulated by Cassandra. Cassandra is then revealed to be an alien, and Pico must defeat her.


== Gameplay ==
The game lets players choose multiple pathways throughout the school's halls, have conversations with surviving students, and engage in enemy fights, all driven by mouse clicks.


== Development ==
Tom Fulp stated in an interview that he was inspired to make the game following a variety of angry e-mails sent to his website Newgrounds following the Columbine massacre, many of which would blame internet websites for distributing offensive content. The game was developed in Macromedia Flash 3 prior to the advent of the scripting language ActionScript, which almost all subsequent Flash games would use. To simulate stored data, Fulp claims to have created a complex web of movie clips to simulate in-game variables, an innovative technique which created a considerable strain during highly interactive sequences, such as boss fights. 
The game was released in 1999, on Newgrounds, with an update releasing in 2006. On April Fools' Day 2021, the original Pico's School was replaced by Pico's School: Love Conquers All, a re-telling of the story in which the massacre never happens.


== Reception and legacy ==
An article published by Spin referred to the game as the work of a "sick genius". Andrew Lerner of Troma Entertainment commented that when he first saw the game, he laughed so hard he almost wet his pants. Troma Entertainment were reportedly at one point in talks with Tom Fulp about making a movie based on the game. A contemporary write-up of Newgrounds on the Japanese tech site Internet Watch by Mie Aoki recommended the game and called it a good way to test how stuck your mind is in elementary school. In a 2020 article, Wired called the game "irreverent pulp".
Tom Fulp, the game's creator, has referred to Pico's School as a "real defining moment for Newgrounds". The game was "hailed by many as the pinnacle of Flash ... 'programming'" and is said to have "offered a first model for the type of point-and-click interactivity that would become a standard". The titular Pico would go on to become essential iconography for Newgrounds, being featured in a number of games and animations. By 2017, the game had received over 6 million views on Newgrounds.


=== Sequel ===
A sequel with the working title Pico 2 was under development for a number of years since August 1999, as a collaboration with part-time animator Jose "MindChamber" Ortiz, but was cancelled without an announcement sometime in the 2010s. Two prototype versions were made available to supporters of Newgrounds in 2016. The Kickstarter for popular rhythm game Friday Night Funkin' (which features Pico as a recurring character) promised to finish and release Pico 2 should its Kickstarter reach $5 million in funding, though this goal was ultimately not achieved.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Pico's School on Newgrounds
Friday Night Funkin'

This is a list of television programmes formerly or currently broadcast by Comedy Central and Comedy Central Extra in the United Kingdom and Ireland.


== Current programmes ==
Source:

Blockbusters (now on Comedy Central Extra)
Criminally Funny (now on Comedy Central Extra)
Cruise TV with LoveitBookit
The Daily Show (now on Comedy Central Extra)
Dragony Aunts (now on Comedy Central)
Drunk History: Black Stories (now on Comedy Central)
Everybody Loves Raymond
Friends
Important Things with Demetri Martin (now on Comedy Central Extra)
Impractical Jokers (2012–present)
Jimmy Carr's Am I the A******?
Michael McIntyre's Big Show (now on Comedy Central Extra; also shown on 5Star)
New Girl (now moved to Disney+; also on Comedy Central Extra)
Reno 911! (now on Comedy Central Extra)
South Park (2005–present)
Spin City (now on Comedy Central Extra)
Stupid Central (now on Comedy Central)
Takeshi's Castle (now on Comedy Central Extra)
Teachers (now on Comedy Central Extra)
Utopia (now on Comedy Central Extra)
Whose Line Is It Anyway? (US)


== Former programmes ==


=== Former programming: 2015–Present ===
8 Out of 10 Cats (broadcast rights with E4/E4 Extra)
The A-Team
All Grown Up
Bad Education
Baywatch
Beavis and Butt-Head (2021-2025)
Becker
Bob's Burgers (now moved to Disney+)
Broad City
Chris Ramsey's Stand Up Central
The Cleveland Show (now moved to Disney+)
Comedy Game Night (previously shown on Channel 5 as Celebrity Game Night)
The Complaints Department
The Cops
Da Ali G Show
Daria
Detroiters
Digman!
Fresh Off the Boat
Guessable
Home Improvement (2023-2025)
Key & Peele (2013–2025)
Kung Fu Panda: Legends of Awesomeness
Last Man Standing
Legends of Chamberlain Heights
Life in Pieces
Lip Sync Battle
Live at the Apollo
The Middle
Mike & Molly
Most Ridiculous
Mr. Bean
My Wife and Kids
Nathan for You
Out of Order
The Ren & Stimpy Show
Rob Beckett's Undeniable
Rhod Gilbert's Growing Pains
The Ricky Gervais Show
Roast Battle
Rugrats
Russell Howard's Good News (a similar show called The Russell Howard Hour is now broadcast by Sky Max)
Scrubs (broadcast rights moved to E4/E4 Extra) (now moved to Disney+)
Tosh.0
TripTank
Two and a Half Men
Ugly Americans
Workaholics
You're the Worst (also shown on 5Star)
Your Face Or Mine?
Younger


=== Only on Comedy Central Extra ===
The Alternative Comedy Experience
Comedy Central At The Comedy Store
Drunk History
Grimm
The Good Brothers
Idiotsitter
Inside Amy Schumer
Jackass
The King of Queens
Lee Evans
Micky Flanagan: Back in the Game
Peter Kay At The Comedy Store (also shown on Channel 5)


=== Former programming: 1995–2015 ===


== References ==

Bill Gilmour or Billy Gilmour may refer to:

Bill Gilmour (director) (born 1939), Scottish television director
Bill Gilmour (politician) (born 1942), Canadian politician
Billy Gilmour (born 2001), Scottish footballer
Billy Gilmour (ice hockey) (1885–1959), Canadian ice hockey player
Bill Gilmour Sr. (born 1934), Australian tennis player
Bill Gilmour Jr. (born 1960), Australian tennis player


== See also ==
Billy Gilmore (died 1978), American musician

Coresus Sacrificing Himself to Save Callirhoe (French: Le grand prêtre Corésus se sacrifie pour sauver Callirhoé) is a large oil-on-canvas painting by the French Rococo artist Jean-Honoré Fragonard, created in 1765. The painting was exhibited at the Salon of 1765 and earned Fragonard entry into the Académie royale de peinture et de sculpture. It is now housed in the Louvre in Paris.


== History ==
The painting was exhibited at the Salon of 1765 and earned Fragonard entry into the Académie royale de peinture et de sculpture. It has often been described as Fragonard's attempt to reconcile his own exuberant style with academic requirements, standing in contrast to the intimate and playful works for which he would later become famous.  
The work was acquired by Louis XV and remained in royal possession until it entered the national collection after the French Revolution. It is now part of the Louvre collection in Paris.
The preparatory sketch for the painting belongs to the Musée des Beaux-Arts d'Angers, and a ricordo version has been part of the Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando in Madrid since 1816. Fragonard also created a later chalk drawing of the same subject, now held by the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.


== Description ==
The painting is a large-scale oil on canvas measuring 309 by 400 cm. The painting depicts a dramatic scene from ‘’Description of Greece’’ (VII, 21) by Pausanias. In the myth, Coresus, a priest of Dionysus in Calydon, is consumed by unrequited love for the maiden Callirhoë. To punish her rejection, the god sends a plague upon the city, and the oracle decrees that only her sacrifice can end it. Fragonard portrays the climactic moment when Coresus, serving as the sacrificial priest, chooses to plunge the knife into his own heart rather than kill the woman he loves. Callirhoe has collapsed beside him, unconscious, while attendants recoil in horror.  
Fragonard's composition reflects the theatricality and dramatic staging common in mid-18th-century French history painting, influenced by artists such as Gabriel François Doyen and Charles-André van Loo. The scene is organised like a sacrificial tableau, with an elevated altar, red draper and monumental architectural columns evoking antiquity. A strong light highlights the principal figures, contrastng with the shadowed temple interior. Around them, spectators display a range of emotional responses, from fear to grief through varied gestures and expressions. Coresus and Callirhoe form the visual and emotional centre of the painting: she lies unconscious at the base of the altar, while he, illuminated against the darkness, prepares to take his own life. Above, allegorical figures of Love and Despair intensify the psychological dimension of the scene.


== Reception ==
At the time of its exhibition in 1765, Fragonard then thirty three years old—was regarded as one of the leading hopes for the revival of French history painting, or the grand genre Coresus Sacrificing Himself to Save Callirhoe, his reception piece for the Académie royale, achieved immediate success at the Salon of 1765 and was praised by contemporary critics, including Denis Diderot. The painting's emotional force and technical refinement established Fragonard's reputation within the academic tradition. Following the Salon, he attracted the attention of the marquis de Marigny, director of the Bâtiments du Roi, who commissioned a companion piece intended as a design for tapestry production at the Gobelins Manufactory.


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
List of works by Fragonard


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Explication des peintures, sculptures et autres ouvrages de Messieurs de l'Académie royale, dont l'exposition a été ordonnée suivant l'intention de Sa Majesté... dans le grand sallon du Louvre... (in French). Paris: Impression des Bâtiments du Roi. 1765. p. 30.
Faroult, Guillaume; Leribault, Christophe; Scherf, Guilhem (2010). L’Antiquité rêvée : innovations et résistances au XVIIIe siècle (in French). Paris: Gallimard / Musée du Louvre. pp. 258–263. ISBN 9782070130887.
Faroult, Guillaume (2015). Fragonard amoureux : galant et libertin (in French). Paris: Réunion des musées nationaux – Grand Palais / Flammarion. ISBN 9782711862344.
Sahut, Marie-Catherine; Volle, Nathalie (1984). Diderot et l’Art : de Boucher à David. Les Salons 1759–1781 (in French). Paris: Éditions de la Réunion des musées nationaux. pp. 204–212. ISBN 2711802833.

The 1974–75 Detroit Pistons season was the Detroit Pistons' 27th season in the NBA and 18th season in the city of Detroit.  The team played at Cobo Arena in downtown Detroit.
The Pistons finished with a 40–42 (.488) record, 3rd place in the Midwest Division.  The team was led guard Dave Bing (19.0 ppg, 7.7 apg, NBA All-Star), who held out over a contract dispute in the pre-season and center Bob Lanier (24.0 ppg, 12.0 rpg, NBA All-Star).  The steady improvement of the previous three seasons (26 to 40 to 52 wins) came to a halt, as injuries played a significant role in derailing the promising season.  In Sports Illustrated, the team was discussing Lanier playing through injury, "He’s our savior," says Rowe.  Our healer, says Adams.  Our leader, says Bing.  Listen to those guys, says Lanier. They think I'm Moses."
Detroit advanced to the 1975 NBA Playoffs, losing a first round series of the Western Conference playoffs 2–1 to the Seattle SuperSonics, dropping the deciding 3rd game 100–94 in Seattle, with each team winning at home in the series.  Lanier was limited in the series, averaging 20.3 ppg vs. his season average of 24.0 ppg, Howard Porter, picked up in a December trade with the Chicago Bulls, had an excellent series with 17.3 ppg, but the team could not overcome the stellar shooting of Downtown Freddie Brown, who averaged 23.7 ppg and Tom Burleson with a double-double of 22.3 ppg and 10.7 rpg.


== Draft picks ==


== Roster ==


== Regular season ==


=== Season standings ===

z – clinched division title
y – clinched division title
x – clinched playoff spot


=== Season schedule ===


== Playoffs ==


== References ==

The fen (Chinese: 分; pinyin: fēn) in Mandarin, fan in Cantonese or hun in Taiwanese, is a traditional Chinese unit of length. One fen equals 1/10 of a cun or 1/100 of a chi. It is 3+1⁄3 mm in China mainland, 3.71475 mm in Hong Kong and 3.030 mm in Taiwan.


== China mainland ==


== Hong Kong and Macau ==

These correspond to the measures listed simply as "China" in The Measures, Weights, & Moneys of All Nations.


== Taiwan ==
Length measure in Taiwan is largely metric but some units derived from traditional Japanese units of measurement remain in use as a legacy of Japanese rule.

Taiwanese length units and the translation of length units in metric system (SI) shares the same character. The adjective Taiwanese (台) can be added to address the Taiwanese unis system. For example, 台尺 means Taiwanese foot and 公尺 means meter.


== Compounds ==
"分寸" is a Chinese word which literally means fen and cun, two traditional Chinese units of length;  figuratively, it refers to the sense of propriety, or the proper degree for saying or doing something. For example, "说话要注意分寸。" (Pay attention to the sense of propriety in speaking.)


== See also ==
Fen (land)
Chinese units of measurement
Taiwanese units of measurement
Hong Kong units of measurement


== References ==

John McCarty (July 13, 1844, in Westchester County, New York – October 20, 1905, in Goshen, Orange County, New York) was an American politician from New York.


== Life ==
McCarty was born on July 13, 1844, in Westchester County, New York. He was the son of Hugh McCarty and Sarah Rogers, Irish immigrants from County Down. Hugh was a contractor for masonry who owned his own quarries and provided stone for the High Bridge and the Brooklyn Naval Yard dry dock. In about 1863 McCarty joined his father in Brooklyn, where Hugh initially planned on setting up his son to work as a grocery store owner.
Instead, McCarty worked in the Naval Yard and became politically active in the Brooklyn 5th Ward. He served for several years as the Brooklyn Board of Health's chief clerk, followed a position as Justice Walsh's clerk. In 1878, he was elected to the Brooklyn Board of Alderman, where he served until 1891 and at different points was made president of the board. For many years he was one of the "Big Four" who controlled the Brooklyn Democratic Party, the other three being Hugh McLaughlin, James Shevlin, and Patrick H. McCarren.
In 1891 he was elected to the New York State Senate, where he represented the 2nd District in 1892 and 1893. He was elected to the newly drawn 6th District in the 1893 election, but accusations of voter fraud in Gravesend and Staten Island led Republican  Henry Wolfert to be seated in the State Senate instead.
After he left the State Senate, he moved to Goshen, where he lived for the rest of his life. He had racing horse stables there, and among his horses was Joe Patchen.
He married Margaret O'Neil in the Church of the Assumption near the end of the Civil War. They had no surviving children. In 1904, it was revealed that he had a second wife, Mary Eloise Lynch, who was living in Pittsfield. Mary was Margaret's niece and the mother of McCarty's three sons: John Jr., William, and Arthur.
McCarty died on October 20, 1905, of pneumonia in his home in Goshen. He was buried in Holy Cross Cemetery.


== References ==

He Will Be a Senator in The Brooklyn Daily Eagle on October 25, 1891.
The New York Red Book. United States, Williams Press, 1892. pp. 88–89.
M'Carty Named in The Brooklyn Citizen on October 12, 1893.
McCarty Will be Unseated in The Brooklyn Daily Eagle on January 29, 1894.
"Niece" of Mrs. McCarty Figures in an Old Story in The Brooklyn Eagle on November 4, 1904.
John McCarty is Dead At His Home In Goshen in The Brooklyn Daily Eagle on October 20, 1905.
The History of Orange County, New York. United States, Van Deusen and Elms, 1908. pp. 885–886.
The Political Graveyard

A Night at the Garden is a 2017 short documentary film about the 1939 Nazi rally at Madison Square Garden in New York City. The film was directed by Marshall Curry from footage found by archival producer Rich Remsberg, and was produced by Laura Poitras and Charlotte Cook with Field of Vision. The seven-minute film is composed entirely of archival footage and features a speech from Fritz Julius Kuhn, the leader of the German American Bund, in which antisemitic and pro white-Christian sentiments are espoused.


== Synopsis ==
The film uses black and white footage from the 1939 Nazi rally at Madison Square Garden from Monday, February 20, 1939. It opens outside Madison Square Garden with shots of the New York City Police Department reining in anti-Nazi counter-protesters along with a marquee that lists a "pro-American rally" scheduled on that night, above a National Hockey League match and a college basketball game later in the week. After a procession of flag bearers to a stage decorated with swastika-adorned pennants, U.S. flags, and a portrait of George Washington, a German-accented man leads the audience in the Pledge of Allegiance. It is Fritz Julius Kuhn, the leader of the German American Bund. He steps up to the podium and casually remarks about how he is depicted as a "creature with horns, a cloven hoof, and long tail" by "the Jewish-controlled press."
As he begins to outline a program calling for a "socially-just, white, Gentile-controlled United States" and "Gentile-controlled labor unions, free from Jewish Moscow-directed domination," a counter-protester rushes on stage in an attempt to attack Kuhn. It is 26 year old Isadore Greenbaum. He is beaten onstage by the Bund's paramilitaries, and as he is hauled away by the police the footage is slowed to focus on him. 
The footage ends with a rendition of "The Star-Spangled Banner" by a German-accented woman, before cutting to a title card noting that the rally occurred when Adolf Hitler was overseeing construction of Nazi Germany's sixth concentration camp and seven months before its invasion of Poland and the beginning of World War II.


== Background ==

The documentary was produced using footage of the rally originally intended for newsreels that had never been widely issued due to its controversial content. Many film exhibitors avoided footage of Hitler and Nazism due to strongly negative reactions and even disorderly conduct from audiences. News of the Day never released its footage, while RKO-Pathé News quickly withdrew a newsreel incorporating the footage after deeming it "too inflammatory." As a result, the rally was widely forgotten after the end of World War II.  After viewing the footage and expressing surprise at the event's obscurity, Curry was inspired to produce the documentary by the rise of the alt-right in the United States and the 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia. The footage was retrieved and edited from the National Archives, the Grinberg Film Library, Streamline Films, and the UCLA Film and Television Archive.


== Release and reception ==
A Night at the Garden premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in 2018 and was nominated at the 91st Academy Awards for Best Documentary Short.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
A Night at The Garden at Field of Vision
A Night at the Garden at IMDb
The entire film on Vimeo

Setting is an American instrumental band from Durham, North Carolina.


== History ==


=== Beginnings and Shone a Rainbow Light On (2021-2023) ===
The band was formed in Durham in 2021 by three musicians playing together in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. Bandmembers Nathan Bowles, Jaime Fennelly, and Joe Westerlund all play multiple instruments, but Westerlund and Bowles had performed as a percussion duo prior to the formation of the trio.
Shone a Rainbow Light On is the debut studio album by Setting. It was released on September 29, 2023, by Paradise of Bachelors.

Shone a Rainbow Light On was met with positive reviews from critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream publications, this release received an average score of 84, based on 6 reviews, which the website categorized as "universal acclaim".
Daniel Hignell of The Quietus wrote of the album: "The sort of record for which the phrase 'organic drones' was built, Setting have produced a beguiling, earthen record that slots neatly into the pantheon of meandering new-age ambiance. A sort of less ostentatious, less cheesy take on Popol Vuh. The album is reminiscent of some of the more obscure instrumental records on the Constellation label, conjuring a world that is neither as minimal as drone nor as lively as kraut-rock, a passive, repetitive, slow-burning folk aesthetic.


=== Recent activity (2024-present) ===
The band's studio album was followed by two album releases of live performances, one from a show at Black Mountain College Museum and one from a performance at the Asheville, North Carolina venue Eulogy.


== Discography ==
Shone a Rainbow Light On (Paradise of Bachelors, 2023)
at Black Mountain College Museum (2023)
at Eulogy (2024)
at Public Records (2025)
Setting (Thrill Jockey, 2026)


== Accolades ==


== Track listing ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Setting at Discogs (list of releases)

Philippe Elebe ma Ekonzo (7 July 1933 or 7 July 1937 – 16 January 2003) was a Congolese diplomat and civil servant.


== Career in the Belgian Congo ==
Elebe ma Ekonzo followed secondary education at Saint Joseph College in Léopoldville, in 1952. The same year, he became a journalist at the Courrier d'Afrique, before founding his own magazine called Le Congo indépendant in Stanleyville in 1959.


== Career in the independent Congo/Zaire ==
At the time of independence, Elebe ma Ekonzo became an adviser in the cabinet of the Minister of Economic Coordination and Planning, Aloïs Kabangi. From 1966 to 1972, he was the Director of the national press agency Agence Zaïre presse (AZAP).
In December 1972, Elebe ma Ekonzo was appointed the Zairean Ambassador to Belgium. On the occasion of the publication of Jules Chomé's anti-Mobutist book L'ascension de Mobutu in Belgium in 1974, Elebe ma Ekonzo was recalled for consultations. Six months later, he was reinstated in Brussels.
From 1975 to 1977, he became the Director of AZAP once again, before being appointed to the Political Bureau of the state party Popular Movement of the Revolution (Mouvement populaire de la révolution, MPR). From 1980 to 1982, he was State Commissioner for National Orientation, Culture, and Arts. Finally, in 1983, he became a member of the powerful MPR organ Central Committee (Comité central).


== Family ==
Philippe Elebe ma Ekonzo is the father of authors: Yolande Elebe Ma Ndembo, Tony Elebe ma Ekonzo, Tiguy Elebe Motingiya, Nick Elebe Ma Elebe.


== Honours ==
 Zaire: National Order of the Leopard (Grand Officer)
 Belgium: Order of the Crown (Grand Cross)


== References ==

Merry Ann Thompson Wright (February 25, 1943 – December 18, 2022) was an American businesswoman who served as the CEO of the American Lung Association of Central New York and as the 42nd president general of the National Society Daughters of the American Revolution.


== Early life and education ==
Wright was born Merry Ann Thompson on February 25, 1943 in Syracuse, New York to Audrey Thompson and Pearl Thompson. She grew up in New Woodstock, New York and graduated in 1961 from Cazenovia High School, where she was head majorette, a member of the National Honors Society, yearbook staff, and the League of Women Voters. 
She attended Franklin College and the University of the South and was a member of Kappa Delta Pi.


== Career ==
Wright served as the chief executive officer of the American Lung Association of Central New York.
Wright joined the Colonel Marinus Willet Chapter of National Society Daughters of the American Revolution as a Junior member in 1967. She twice served as the New York State society's Outstanding Junior, in 1974 and 1979, and was the Northeastern Division Outstanding Junior in 1979. She served as Chief Personal Page to President General Jeannette Osborn Baylies. She went on to serve as the New York state regent from 1989 to 1992, the NSDAR director of development from 1998 to 2007, as vice president general, recording secretary general, and as first vice president general. From 2010 to 2013, she served as the 42nd president general of the Daughters of the American Revolution. After leaving office, she was elected honorary president general.


== Personal life ==
Wright was married to Lawrence F. Wright.
She retired in 2007 and moved to Leland, North Carolina. She was a member of St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Wilmington, serving as a senior warden, as a member of the church's book club, and an active member of Daughters of the King. Wright was also a member of the Rotary Club, the Association of Fundraising Professionals, the National Gavel Society, and the National Society Daughters of Founders and Patriots.
She died on December 18, 2022. Her funeral was held at St. Paul's Episcopal Church on January 7, 2023.


== References ==

Jason Ross is an American writer and seven-time Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Variety Series winner.


== Early life and education ==
Ross grew up in Chico, California, in the 1970s and 80s and graduated from Chico Senior High School in 1988.  He attended the University of California, Santa Barbara, where he was a 1993 Collegiate Gold Circle Awards winner for his work at Daily Nexus.  He served as the news editor at Daily Nexus before being promoted to editor-in-chief and graduated from UCSB in 1993.


== Career ==


=== Journalism ===
Ross followed a journalism career and was a writer for his hometown Chico News & Review after college.


=== The Daily Show ===
Ross joined The Daily Show in 2002, where he ended up spending 11 years, finally departing in June 2013.  As a staff writer, he was awarded seven Emmy Awards and a Writers Guild Award.
He also helped to write the show's two best-selling books, America and Earth.


=== Late Night with Jimmy Fallon ===
Ross joined Late Night with Jimmy Fallon for the 2013–14 television season.


=== Any Given Wednesday with Bill Simmons ===
Ross held the role of head writer on Any Given Wednesday with Bill Simmons in 2016.[1]


=== The President Show ===
Ross served as executive producer and writer of The President Show in 2017,[2][3] helping write and produce the first 15 episodes. The show received a nomination for the 70th Writers Guild of America Awards. He returned in 2018 to write and produce two President Show specials.[4][5]


=== The Amazing Beef Squad: Never Say Die! ===
In 2021, Delacorte published Ross's middle grade novel, The Amazing Beef Squad: Never Say Die!, a comic adventure set in a fictional California town. Kirkus praised its "comical pratfalls aplenty on the way to a triumphant close." Jon Stewart noted, "Juvenile delinquency has never been so fun!" In spite of this—or perhaps because of it—the School Library Journal did not recommend the book for purchase.[6]


=== STOP THE DIS! ===
In 2024, Ross joined his fellow Daily Show alum Al Madrigal to write and produce STOP THE DIS!, a series of digital monologues calling attention to disinformation in Latino social media.[7] The series took a Telly Award for public interest and awareness.[8]


== Awards ==
Ross and the Daily Show writing team received the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Variety, Music, or Comedy Program in 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2009, 2011, and 2012. In 2010, they won the Writers Guild Award in their category. Ross and The Daily Show staff received a Peabody Award for  "Indecision 2004"List of Peabody Award winners (2000–2009), covering the 2004 presidential election, and another in 2016 marking Stewart's tenure at the show.[9]


== Personal life ==
Ross lives in Los Angeles, California.  He is married to Nicole Revere and has two grown children.


== References ==


== External links ==
Jason Ross at IMDb
Personal website

Deagon is an outer northern suburb in the City of Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. In the 2021 census, Deagon had a population of 3,773 people.


== Geography ==
Deagon is 18 kilometres (11 mi) north of the CBD.
The Gateway Arterial Road runs through the western side of the suburb.
Deagon has a flat topography with one of its boundaries being Cabbage Tree Creek. The Creek's catchment is largely urbanised but the Boondall Wetlands, which is separated from Deagon by the Creek, plays an important role in providing essential habitat for a range of birds and animals, including migratory birds, which make their way from the arctic circle. The Boondall Wetlands near Deagon have ecosystems that are fresh as well as areas that are salt water. The smaller reserves such as Brighton and Deagon Wetlands are fresh water only. The Deagon Wetland is an important remnant of tea tree woodland on a 50ha site. Notable bird species include the striped honeyeater and the white-cheeked honeyeater.


== History ==
The Jagera and Turrbal groups occupied land in the Brisbane and Ipswich areas. The exact boundaries are not known; however, the Turrbal generally occupied the area north of the Brisbane River. Both groups had closely related languages which are classified as belonging to the larger Yaggera language group. In nearby Shorncliffe the Ningy-Ningy clan had displaced the Turrbal by the 1850s.
The area has a rich Aboriginal history. Evidence of Aboriginal occupation can be found in a bora ring at Nudgee Waterhole; in sites of special importance at Dinah Island near Nundah; and by Aboriginal camps on the banks of the Cabbage Tree Creek.
The suburb was named after its railway station, which in turn was named in 1887 after William Deagon, who was Mayor of Sandgate from 1882 to 1884. William Deagon was an old identity of the area, and his name was used for the locality when the railway line went through in 1887. He owned the Sandgate Hotel, a stopping place for the Cobb & Co. coaches. Deagon Street, the racecourse, the railway station and the Deagon Wetlands all bear his name.
Deagon Baptist Mission Church opened in 1918. It was on a block of land near Deagon railway station and a stump-capping ceremony was held in September 1918.
Deagon Post Office opened on 18 June 1947 at Mr Torpie's store next to the railway station.
Sandgate District State High School opened in 1959. When the Minister of Education Jack Pizzey officially opened it in 1961, he said the school, which had an elaborate man-made lake in its grounds, was one of the most attractive in Queensland. Extensions were then completed four years after that. In the 1980s a performance hall and library building were added and then, in 2001–03, under the secondary school renewal program, a modern sports hall and home economics block.
On Sunday 20 November 1994 the current Sandgate Uniting Church building was officially opened and dedicated by Reverend Donald W. Whebell, Moderator of the Queensland Synod of the Uniting Church in Australia. It brings together the Uniting congregations of Boondall, Brighton, Sandgate and Shorncliffe, a decision made by those congregations in June 1990.
In May 2012, the Sandgate Baptist congregation merged with the Geebung Baptist congregation and established a new church, Connect Baptist Church at 21 Braun Street, Deagon.


== Demographics ==
In the 2011 census, the population of Deagon was 3,460,
In the 2016 census, Deagon had a population of 3,675 people, 51.1% female and 48.9% male. The median age of the Deagon population was 42 years of age, 4 years above the Australian median. 75.7% of people living in Deagon were born in Australia, compared to the national average of 66.7%; the next most common countries of birth were England 3.9%, New Zealand 2.2%, Philippines 0.3%, Ireland 0.3%, Germany  0.4%. 87.3% of people spoke only English at home; the next most popular languages were 0.5% Tagalog, 0.4% Samoan, 0.4% Dutch, 0.4% Mandarin, 0.3% Japanese. 14.3% of Deagon residents were born overseas and 8.8% speak a language other than English at home. This compares with 28.9%  for Queensland as a whole. The most common foreign languages spoken were Tagalog, Samoan, Dutch, Mandarin and Japanese. 2.5% were of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander descent, compared to 4.0% for Queensland.
In the 2021 census, Deagon had a population of 3,773 people.


== Education ==
There is no primary school within Deagon; the nearest one is in Sandgate with other primary schools in other neighbouring suburbs.
Sandgate District State High School is a government secondary (7–12) school for boys and girls at 41 Braun Street (27.3290°S 153.0572°E﻿ / -27.3290; 153.0572﻿ (Sandgate District State High School)). In 2017, the school had an enrolment of 1,056 students with 93 teachers (86 full-time equivalent) and 46 non-teaching staff (32 full-time equivalent). It includes a special education program.


== Amenities ==

A Queensland Racing training facility, Deagon Racecourse, lies to the north of the suburb. Horse racing in Deagon ceased in 1941, but the racecourse remains a first rate training establishment. The Bligh government intended to make the racecourse the centre for all greyhound racing in Brisbane (replacing Albion Park Raceway) but this plan was cancelled in February 2012.
The (Evergreen) Ching Chung Taoist Temple sits next to the Gateway Arterial Road. It was built at Deagon in 1991. There are three Halls which were built according to Taoist beliefs. The three halls are: The Hall of Three Purities, the Hall of Three Masters and the Hall of the Spiritual Garden. There is also a Memorial Hall of Ancestors.
Sandgate Uniting Church is at 116 Board Street (27.3255°S 153.0589°E﻿ / -27.3255; 153.0589﻿ (Sandgate Uniting Church)).


== Transport ==
Deagon can be easily accessed via Sandgate Road and the Gateway Motorway. Deagon also has a railway line with three stations easily accessed by Deagon residents: North Boondall, Deagon, and Sandgate. Deagon also has a variety of bus services operated by Transport for Brisbane and Hornibrook Bus Lines. All public transport services in Deagon are operated under Translink Including school bus services operated by Thompson Bus Lines.


== Notable residents ==
Kerri-Anne Kennerley, television celebrity, attended Sandgate District State High School
Susan Kiefel, High Court of Australia judge, attended Sandgate District State High School (leaving at age 15 in Year 10)
Wendy Turnbull OBE, international tennis player, attended Sandgate District State High School


== References ==


== External links ==

"Deagon". Queensland Places. Centre for the Government of Queensland, University of Queensland.
"Deagon". BRISbites. Brisbane City Council. Archived from the original on 20 July 2008.
"Deagon". Our Brisbane. Brisbane City Council. Archived from the original on 14 April 2008.

Ibis the Invincible (also Ibis the Mystic) is the name of two superheroes appearing in American comic books first published by Fawcett Comics, then Charlton Comics in 1955, and then DC Comics beginning in the 1970s. In 2022, the character also is published by Antarctic Press within Exciting Comics. Like many magician superheroes introduced in the Golden Age of Comics, Ibis owes much to the popular comic strip character Mandrake the Magician.
Within Fawcett Comics and later DC Comics publication, the original Ibis was ancient Egyptian prince and magician Amentep. An acolyte of Thoth, he bears the Ibistick, a powerful magical wand that can only be used for good. While making sporadic appearances in some titles, Amentep is established as an accomplished magician and an ally of the Wizard Shazam and the Marvel Family. The second Ibis and successor to Amentep is Daniel Khalifa, a high-school student and descendant of magician pharaohs, granting him magical potential. He is chosen by a dying Amentep to succeed him as the next Ibis due to his heritage. In the character's portrayal in Exciting Comics, Amentep is a composite character renamed simply Ibis although he retains a similar appearance and connection to love interest Taia, now a priest of Anubis. Ibis is reincarnated in the modern era as Daniel Khalifa (older than his prior depictions) and encounters an aged Taia, who reveals his true nature and Ibistick. Now with the memory of his past life and restoring Taia's youth, he battles the forces of evil while resuming his relationship with Taia.


== Publication history ==
The original Ibis first appeared in Whiz Comics #2 (February 1940), and was created by Bob Kingett. When superheroes declined in popularity in the early 1950s, Ibis and the other Fawcett characters ceased publication. One Ibis story shortly thereafter was reprinted by Charlton Comics. The Fawcett characters were later licensed and eventually bought outright by DC Comics in the 1970s. The second Ibis first appeared in Helmet of Fate: Ibis the Invincible #1 (January 2007), and was created by Tad Williams and Phil Winslade.


== Characterization ==


=== Amentep ===
Prince Amentep of Egypt was an acolyte of Thoth and next Pharaoh in line who fell in love with princess Taia of Thebes. Originally, Amentep travels to 1940 when Taia is poisoned and he places her and himself in suspended animation to heal, a process that took 4,000 years. He uses his mystic abilities in the modern era to battle evil. Ibis also once temporarily served as the guardian of the Rock of Eternity in place of ally and friend, the Wizard Shazam.


=== Daniel Khalifa ===
Daniel Kasam "Danny" Khalifa is an Egyptian-American high school student of average ability with the bloodline of the Hekau, ancient magician pharaohs whose abilities is hinted to be derived from the aforementioned deity. When chosen as the second Ibis and wielding the Ibistick, its appearance is that of a large magic staff and Daniel is transformed into an older adult form. As Ibis the Invincible, he is a mystic defender against forces of evil, especially mystic threats with connections to ancient Egypt.


=== Ibis / Daniel Kahlifa ===
A composite character of Amentep and Daniel Khalifa, Ibis is a sorcerer and prince whose origins is traced to ancient Egypt, known for his mastery of white magic, strong moral character, and pride for Egyptian history and culture. He falls in love with the High Priestess of Anubis, Taia, who serves as both his love interest and guide. After being reincarnated as Daniel Khalifa, he retains his strong moral character and appreciation for Egyptian culture and history. Upon discovering his past life, he sacrifices his youth to de-age Taia and resume his past life as a mystic defender, although the implications of him abandoning his previous life and its effects on his friends and family is a concern.


== Fictional history ==


=== Prince Amentep ===
Ibis begins his life as Amentep, a prince of ancient Egypt who was in love with the beautiful Princess Taia of Thebes. As a young man, Amentep is given the "Ibistick", a talisman of incredible power, by the Egyptian god Thoth, who empowers the talisman after Ibis was overthrown. Amentep's throne is eventually usurped – with the aid of a demonic army conjured up by the evil god Set – by a cruel magician known as the Black Pharaoh. When Taia, who is under the protection of Osiris, refuses to marry him, the Black Pharaoh shoots her with a poisoned arrow. Using his Ibistick, Amentep places his beloved in suspended animation to allow her to heal. He casts a similar spell upon himself, hoping to be present when Taia revives.
4000 years later, the mummy of Amentep returns to life in an American museum in 1940, which is later revealed to be the work of the wizard Shazam. Now called "Ibis", Amentep sets out in search of his beloved, eventually finding her at another museum. Seeking to adjust to this new world, Ibis uses his vast powers to become a crimefighter.
Ibis can do almost anything with the power of the Ibistick: build force-fields around cities, transport himself and others, heal or destroy people, bring people back to life or summon spirits, give superhuman powers, and even make objects appear out of thin air. Without the wand, he is powerless, which is frequently exploited by his enemies. The Ibistick apparently vibrates in the presence of evil, at one point it even wakes him up. Taia was once shown using the wand to make lightning strike a foe of Ibis, and often uses it at other times. It can be used by anybody, but not to cause harm directly to Ibis, or it will backfire on the user. It cannot be used directly against certain magics.
According to Jess Nevins' Encyclopedia of Golden Age Superheroes, "Ibis fights ordinary criminals, an animated and living Sphinx, the Yellow Peril Trug, a spider made man-sized and man-smart by the Ibistick, the superintelligent maimed madman Half-Man, the Dark Spirit (a forgotten god of wickedness), Ruthven the Warlock, and Lucifer himself".
Ibis and Taia next appear in a Justice League/Justice Society crossovers as members of a team referred to as Shazam's Squadron of Justice. These heroes live in a parallel universe on a world called Earth-S. Along with many other Earth-S characters, they were imprisoned in Doctor Sivana's Suspendium globe, but released twenty years later when it drifted near the Sun. Ibis was a member of the Squadron of Justice, organized to defeat King Kull when he paralyzed the Marvels and tried to destroy all three Earths. Ibis helped stop Mr. Atom from destroying the futuristic City of Tomorrow on Earth-One.
After the Crisis on Infinite Earths, Ibis and Taia were retconned as part of the Golden Age of the DC Universe, in which Ibis served alongside other wartime heroes in the All-Star Squadron. As noted in Starman Vol. 2, #40 (March 1998), Ibis tends to operate out of Fawcett City like other heroes, including Bulletman, Minute-Man, Spy Smasher, and the duo of Mr. Scarlet and Pinky the Whiz Kid.
Ibis was reintroduced in the modern DC Universe in The Power of Shazam! #11, in which he is resurrected by Mary Marvel and Uncle Dudley to rescue the wizard Shazam from Hell, where he had been imprisoned by the demoness Blaze. In Zatanna #1, part of the Seven Soldiers miniseries, Ibis and Taia presumably perish along with Doctor Thirteen and Timothy Ravenwind at the hands of Gwydion during a seance conducted by Zatanna. The sorceress blames her own shortcomings for their deaths.


=== Danny Khalifa ===
Amentep's successor is an Egyptian American boy named Danny Khalifa. Due to his ancient bloodline, Danny is chosen by Amentep to be his successor. He inherits the Ibistick and is thrust into a conflict between ancient Egyptian gods. As Ibis, Danny prevents the helmet of Doctor Fate from falling into the hands of Set. Danny is assisted by the deity Thoth, who becomes his mentor and frightens away the bullies.


=== Reign in Hell ===
Ibis returns to seek his new apprentice's services during the Reign in Hell miniseries. Tensions between the major demons and the Hell-empowered heroes and villains erupt into a struggle for the control of the Hell dimension. Danny accepts the summons. He is assisted by Black Alice, who offers guidance and covers for his absence on Earth. While in Hell, Black Alice betrays him to ensure her own safety, abandoning him to Neron's forces.He is later seen alive on Earth fighting against Frankenstein after being corrupted by the Starheart's energy.


== Enemies ==
Ibis the Invincible faces many powerful enemies. One of them is Apollyon, a demon summoned by a student. Apollyon kills a professor, but Ibis defeats him with the help of the professor's spirit and the Ibistick. Ibis also battles Black Rufe, a resurrected criminal, and Black Pharaoh, his evil sorcerous uncle. The Black Pharaoh tries to marry Taia, but Ibis defeats him. Ibis faces The Cat, a cult leader with nine lives, and Charon, the boatman of the river Styx. He also confronts Dalaghar, a thieving sorcerer, who is turned to stone after trying to escape. The Gorgons, who turn people to stone, are also defeated by Ibis using magical spectacles and Perseus' sword. Karnok, an evil sorcerer, and Ra-Tuth, an Egyptian wizard, oppose Ibis. Karnok tries to sacrifice Ibis but is sent to Hades. Ibis also battles the Moon-men, ancient rivals of humanity. They are revived but destroyed on the Moon. Murder Malone, a criminal who takes over an orphanage, is outsmarted by Ibis. Trug, a recurring villain seeking the Ibistick, and the Vampire Twins, Baron Ornzy and Maryani, are also defeated. Throughout all these battles, Ibis uses the power of the Ibistick and his own magic to protect Taia and defend the world from evil.


== Golden Age appearances ==
Ibis the Invincible appeared in:

Whiz Comics #2–155 (Feb 1940 – June 1953)
Ibis, the Invincible #1–6 (Jan 1942 – Sept 1948)
American's Greatest #4 (Summer 1942)
All Hero #1 (Mar 1945)


== References ==


== External links ==
Ibis the Invincible at Comic Vine

Iosif Benzionovich Khriplovich (Russian: Иосиф Бенционович Хриплович; 23 January 1937 – 26 September 2024) was a Russian theoretical physicist who made profound contributions to quantum field theory, atomic physics, and general relativity.


== Biography ==
Khriplovich was a Chief Researcher at the Budker Institute of Nuclear Physics, Novosibirsk, and held a Chair of Theoretical Physics at Novosibirsk State University. Dr. Khriplovich was elected to the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2000, and remained a Corresponding Member. He was awarded the 2004 Silver Dirac Medal for the Advancement of Theoretical Physics by University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia, and shared the 2005 Pomeranchuk Prize with Arkady Vainshtein For outstanding contribution to the understanding the properties of the standard model, especially for illuminating work on weak and strong interactions of quarks, a prize awarded by the Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Physics of Moscow.
Khriplovich was the first to correctly calculate the beta function for the coupling renormalization in a non-Abelian Yang–Mills theory, although at that time (1969) asymptotic freedom was not yet recognized as a property of the strong interactions.
Starting in the early-1970s he was one of the initiators of the search for parity violating effects in atoms, and he pioneered a great number of detailed calculations of the effect in various atoms, including the effect of the rotation of polarization of light in bismuth, which was the first parity violating atomic effect which was experimentally observed.
Khriplovich died on 26 September 2024, at the age of 87.


== Books ==
"Parity Nonconservation in Atomic Phenomena" (1991)
"CP Violation without Strangeness. Electric Dipole Moments of Particles, Atoms, and Molecules" (1997), with S.K.Lamoreaux
"General Relativity" (2002)


== See also ==
Akademgorodok


== References ==


== External links ==
UNSW School of physics annual report 2004
Pomeranchuk Prize Winners 2005

Edo Japan, often known simply as Edo (), is a Canadian-founded fast food restaurant chain specializing in Japanese Teppan-style cooking. Founded in 1979 in Calgary, Alberta Canada by Reverend Susumu Ikuta, a Japanese Buddhist minister, Edo Japan was named after the original name of Tokyo. The company is based in Calgary, Alberta, and the first restaurant opened in 1979 in Calgary.


== History ==
Born in 1926 in Kyoto, Japan, Rev. Susumu Ikuta first moved to Australia with his family in 1937. After finishing high school, Rev. Ikuta moved back and forth between Australia and Japan until 1958, when he graduated with an M.A. in Buddhist Studies from Ryukoku University and moved to Canada for the last time to become a Jōdo Shinshū Buddhist minister for the Buddhist Churches of Canada.
In 1979, Rev. Ikuta opened the first Edo Japan restaurant as a means of establishing and sustaining the Calgary Buddhist Temple of Calgary, Alberta, and began franchising the business in 1986. In 1998, Reverend Ikuta became the first Australian-raised Bishop of the Buddhist Churches of Canada and decided it was time for someone else to manage Edo Japan's business.


== Expansion and growth ==
Over the course of Reverend Ikuta's leadership, the company grew to 102 food court locations in suburban shopping centres across Canada, the United States and Australia, with about $10 million in annual sales. In 1999, the former president of Moxie's, Tom Donaldson, took over as President and CEO of Edo Japan with a small equity earn-in position before purchasing the company outright in 2006. Over the next 10 years, Donaldson focused on revitalizing the brand by scaling back the number of locations to operate solely in Canada, which saw the company grow to $60 million in annual sales by 2011.  Under Donaldson's leadership, the company expanded beyond mall food courts by opening its first stand-alone location in 2002, and by 2011 a further 36 street-front locations were established under. By 2015, the chain had 109 locations across British Columbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Ontario, and Quebec, with $92 million in annual sales.
In 2016, David Minnett, former president of Kelsey's (2006–2009) and Swiss Chalet and Harvey's (2009–2013), took over the role of President and CEO and has continued to expand the company into Ontario and Manitoba, with more than 140 restaurants across Canada as of 2020. Minnett's leadership also brought new additions to the menu and the "Edo Fresh Take" restaurant redesign, which modernized the restaurant's décor and layout, and introduced a grab and go market wall with imported Japanese snacks for purchase.


== Menu ==
Edo Japan's core menu items are made to order using a signature teriyaki sauce and cooked on a 450 °F (232 °C) teppan grill. The menu also includes Japanese dishes such as sushi, udon soups and bento boxes. 


== References ==


== Further reading ==
"Calgary-based Edo Japan closing in on $100 million annual sales". Calgary Herald. 29 July 2014.


== External links ==
Official website

The U3 is a line of the Hamburg U-Bahn. The ring line with a length of 20.68 kilometres (12.85 mi) serves 25 stations. The first part opened in 1912. The line starts in Wandsbek-Gartenstadt and leads via Barmbek into the ring passing through the city centre and back to Barmbek.


== History ==

The ring line was built from 1906 to 1912 and had a length of 17.48 km (10.86 mi) and with 23 stations. The first part of the line which was first opened in February 1912, was the part between Rathaus via Hauptbahnhof and to Barmbek. On 2 January 1967, the first part of the line to Billstedt opened with the section leading to Horner Rennbahn. Since then, the U3 line was not a ring line anymore until the year of 2009.
In 2009, eastern parts of U2 and U3 lines were swapped behind Berliner Tor. Before that, the U2 line led to Wandsbek-Gartenstadt. Since then, it ends in Mümmelmannsberg, and the U3 became a ring line again with a branch to Wandsbek-Gartenstadt.


== Future ==
A new Fuhlsbüttler Straße station is planned between Barmbek and Habichtstraße stations, the construction of which would begin in 2027. It is expected to be completed in 2029.


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Tokyo's Toei Ōedo Line, London Underground's Circle line, and the Brussels Metro Line 6, three underground lines with similar arrangements


== References ==


== External links ==

Events of 2019 in Colombia.


== Incumbents ==
President: Iván Duque Márquez
Vice President: Marta Lucia Ramirez


== Events ==


=== January ===
Blacks and Whites' Carnival
January 17 - 2019 Bogotá car bombing: A vehicle-bound suicide bomb attack in Bogotá, Colombia, kills 22 people and injures 68 others, making it the deadliest attack on the Colombian capital since 2003.


=== February ===
2019 Tour Colombia
2019 shipping of humanitarian aid to Venezuela
February 14 - The FECODE teachers union, Colombia's largest, stages a single day strike in protest of underfunding of and poor conditions in the public education system.


=== March ===
Barranquilla's Carnival
Cartagena Film Festival
March 30 - A 14-year old "hit man" is arrested in Medellín after killing victims #11 and #12 in cold blood. The victims were businessman Darío Alexis, 42, and a messenger, Mateo C, 20.


=== July ===
July 9 - A Laser Aéreo Douglas DC-3 plane carrying the mayor of Taraira and 13 others crashes near San Carlos de Guaroa, Colombia, killing all 14 people on board.
July 28 – 22-year-old cyclist Egan Bernal wins the 2019 Tour de France.


=== August ===
Some former FARC commanders re-arm and form Segunda Marquetalia (FARC-SM), abandoning the 2016 peace accord and becoming one of the largest FARC dissident groups.


=== September ===
September 30 - Farmers Alberto Armando Sánchez, Fernando Salcedo, and Cristian Sánchez are killed in Tarazá, Antioquia. They were working under an illicit crop replacement program as a part of the 2016 Colombian peace agreement.


=== October ===
October 11 - The joint headquarters for the Colombian Communist Party (PCC) and the Patriotic Union (UP) in Bogotá, under the Colombia Humana Coalition, is attacked with an explosive and gunfire. Soon after, the office of the People's Alternative Revolutionary Force (FARC) is vandalized. The same note is left at both the premises.
October 27 - Regional and municipal elections are held, electing 32 department governors and 1,102 municipal mayors.


=== November ===
November 6 - Defense Minister Guillermo Botero resigns right before a second motion to censure him was to be voted on. His resignation comes after a string of scandals including "false positive" extrajudicial killings and the bombing of FARC dissidents in Caquetá that killed 18 children.
November 21 - Hundreds of thousands of Colombians across the country participate in a national strike to protest the Duque Márquez Administration, specifically inaction on the implementation of the 2016 peace accord and proposed pension cuts.
November 23 - An 18-year-old protester, Dilan Cruz, is killed by riot police using 'non-lethal' ammunition in Bogotá, sparking outrage and further protest.


=== December ===
December 4 - A third national strike against the Duque Márquez Administration takes place across Colombia.


== Births ==


== Deaths ==


=== January ===
January 1 – María Teresa Uribe, sociologist and academic at the University of Antioquia (b. 1940).
January 3 – Radamel García, Olympic footballer (b. 1957).
January 8 – Julio Rubiano, Olympic racing cyclist (b. 1953).
January 11 – Rafael Arcadio Bernal Supelano, Roman Catholic prelate, Bishop of Arauca and Líbano-Honda (b. 1934).
January 29 – Fernando Gaitán, Screenwriter (Café, con aroma de mujer, Yo soy Betty, la fea) (b. 1960).
January 30 – Jaime Ardila Casamitjana, writer (b. 1919).


=== February ===
February 7 – Legarda, singer (b.1989).


=== May ===
May 19 –  Leidy Asprilla, footballer (b. 1997).


=== June ===
June 6 – Jota Mario Valencia, television presenter (b. 1956).
June 9 – Humberto Álvarez, footballer (b. 1929).


=== July ===
July 2 – Jaime Posada Díaz, writer and politician: Minister of National Education and Governor of Cundinamarca Department  (b. 1924)
July 24 – Luis González, Olympic swimmer (b. 1925).


=== August ===
August 13 – Cecilia Caballero Blanco, socialite and First Lady of Colombia (b. 1913).


=== September ===
September 3 – José de Jesús Pimiento Rodríguez, Roman Catholic cardinal (b. 1919).


=== October ===
October 20 – Gonzalo de Jesús Rivera Gómez, Roman Catholic prelate and Auxiliary Bishop of Medellín (b. 1933).


=== November ===
November 19 – Ernesto Báez, United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia leader (b. 1955).


=== December ===
December 10 – Fabio Vásquez Castaño, co-founder of the National Liberation Army (b. 1940).


== See also ==

2019 Pan American Games
 


== References ==

John Caldwell Cheek (September 25, 1955 – April 3, 2026) was an American lacrosse attackman who played collegiately for Washington College and was a member of the U.S. men's national team at the 1978 World Lacrosse Championship. He was inducted into the National Lacrosse Hall of Fame in 2003.


== Early life and education ==
Cheek was born on September 25, 1955 in Towson, Maryland. He attended Towson High School, where he played lacrosse before continuing at Washington College on an athletic scholarship.


== Career ==


=== College ===
Cheek played at Washington College in Chestertown, Maryland from 1974 to 1977. He concluded his collegiate career as the school's all-time leading goal scorer with 212 career goals, including a school single-season record of 69 goals in 15 games during the 1976 season; both records remain on the school's all-time list.
Cheek earned All-America honors in three consecutive seasons, receiving second-team recognition in 1975 and first-team selection in 1976 and 1977. He was named the Division II/III Player of the Year in 1976 and the Division II/III Attackman of the Year in both 1976 and 1977. In 1977, he was selected to the annual North/South All-Star Game, leading the South squad with five goals.


=== International ===
After graduating, Cheek continued to play in post-collegiate club lacrosse and was selected to the United States men's national team that competed at the 1978 World Lacrosse Championship in England. He was one of two Washington College alumni to be named to a U.S. national team.


== References ==

Ardozyga flexilis is a species of moth in the family Gelechiidae. It was described by Edward Meyrick in 1904. It is found in Australia, where it has been recorded from New South Wales.
The wingspan is about 12 mm (0.47 in). The forewings are fuscous, irrorated (speckled) with dark fuscous and finely sprinkled with whitish. The stigmata are dark fuscous, the plical obliquely beyond the first discal and another similar dot beneath the second discal. The hindwings are pale grey.


== References ==

Tereza Kneblová (born 11 April 2003) is a Czech female slalom and wildwater canoeist who has competed at the international level since 2018.
She won three medals at the ICF Canoe Slalom World Championships with a gold (C1: 2026) and two silvers (C1 team: 2023, 2026).
She also won three gold medals in the C1 team event at the European Championships, including one at the 2023 European Games in Kraków.
In wildwater canoeing she finished 4th in the C2 final and 5th in the C1 final at the 2019 Wildwater Canoeing World Championships.
Her younger sister Klára is also a slalom canoeist and multiple medalist in junior championships.


== World Cup individual podiums ==


== Wildwater Canoeing ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Tereza Kneblová at CanoeICF.com
Tereza Kneblová at InterSportStats

Presseclub is a current affairs TV program broadcast weekly on Sunday from 12:03 to 12:45 on Das Erste, Phoenix, and WDR 5 (audio portion).


== Content ==
In Presseclub, four to five journalists discuss current topics. In contrast to its predecessor show, Presseclub is more related to topics in Germany; foreign journalists are rarely invited. The audience then has 15 minutes to ask questions by telephone. This interactive part of the show called Presseclub Nachgefragt ("Presseclub Asked") is only aired on Phoenix and WDR 5. The program is generally characterized by a calm, conversational atmosphere.


== History ==
Presseclub was first aired on December 27, 1987 on Das Erste.
On November 12, 1989, Presseclub was broadcast live from East Berlin on the subject of the topic DDR – Land zwischen Aufbruch und Umbruch ("GDR - Land between New Beginnings and Upheaval"), making it the first West German television program from the GDR.
Since October 2002, if Presseclub on Das Erste is canceled due to a direct sports broadcast, a new edition of the international morning pint has been running every Sunday afternoon on Phoenix under the direction of various Phoenix moderators.
A total of 150 Presseclub episodes were produced, 141 of which include the Presseclub Nachgefragt part.


== Moderation ==
The moderators were/are:

1987–1988: Rolf Schmidt-Holtz
1988–1993: Dieter Thoma
1988–2001: Gerhard Fuchs (successor of Schmidt-Holtz)
1993–late 2006: Fritz Pleitgen (successor of Thoma)
2001–October 14, 2007: Peter Voß (successor of Fuchs)
2005–2013 Monika Piel (Nachfolgerin von Pleitgen)
since September 2007- May 2022: Volker Herres (successor of Voß)
since 2008: Jörg Schönenborn
2008–2016: Tina Hassel (representative)
2012–2019: Sonia Seymour Mikich (representative)
since 2018: Ellen Ehni (successor of Mikich)
since July 2020: Sabine Scholt
since 2023: Susan Link


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website (in German)
Presseclub on IMDb

Rex Records was a United Kingdom-based record label founded in 1933 by the Crystalate Gramophone Record Manufacturing Company, also the parent of British Imperial Records. Rex released their first discs in September 1933, with the initial catalogue numbers being 8000 or 8001. The company was taken over by Decca Records in March 1937. Rex Records were sold at Marks & Spencer's chain stores.
The label was discontinued in February 1948. Despite wartime limitations, they had released approximately 2,250 discs.
The label name reappeared in 1965 as part of the Decca group. For more information, see Rex Records (1965).


== See also ==
List of record labels
Rex Records (disambiguation)
An In-progress List of Rex records[link removed] at The 78rpm Community.
Search all Rex 78 rpm records at the 78rpm Community Index Search


== References ==

Psalms II is the tenth studio album by Shane & Shane. WellHouse Records released the album on October 23, 2015. This album charted on six Billboard magazine charts, including, The Billboard 200.


== Critical reception ==
Reviewing the album for AllMusic, Timothy Monger says, "A collection of 12 worship songs, each based on a different psalm...Mixing acoustic and folk elements with sweeping alt-rock and the duo's trademark close harmonies".


== Track listing ==


== Chart performance ==


== References ==

Sweet Sue is a play by A. R. Gurney. It premiered at the Williamstown Theatre Festival and later enjoyed a Broadway production at the Music Box Theatre during the 1986-87 season.


== Characters ==
The play requires four actors for its two characters, Susan Weatherhill, a repressed and uncertain woman in her late forties, and Jake, a young man who is the college roommate of Susan's son. Each of these characters is played simultaneously by two actors, who give expression to the characters' internal tensions and ambivalence. The script refers to them as: "Susan", "Susan Too", "Jake", and "Jake Too". This technique of dividing a single character between two actors is not unique to Sweet Sue; it can also be found in Overtones (1913 and 1929) by Alice Gerstenberg, Getting Out (1979) by Marsha Norman, and Passion (1981) by Peter Nichols. Here, Gurney uses it to create an atmosphere of light romantic comedy, punctuated by moments of unease.


== Analysis ==
Gurney has explained that the play was initially meant to be a modern treatment of the classical tale of Phaedra and her desire for a younger man, but turned into a summer romance, with Susan's struggling with problems of self-esteem, artistic integrity, and sexual attraction to a man young enough to be her son. Reviewers tended to dismiss the play as superficial and far from Gurney's best, but it ran for six months on Broadway, due in part to the casting of the two Sues with the popular actors Mary Tyler Moore and Lynn Redgrave.


== References ==


== External links ==
​Sweet Sue​ at the Internet Broadway Database

The 383d Fighter Squadron is an active United States Air Force unit assigned to the 495th Fighter Group.  It is stationed at Buckley Space Force Base, Colorado, where it is an active duty associate unit of the 120th Fighter Squadron.  
The squadron was first activated in 1943.  After training in the United States, it deployed to the European Theater of Operations.  It flew combat missions until 1945, earning a Distinguished Unit Citation for its actions on 27 December 1944, defending a heavy bomber formation during a raid on Frankfurt am Main.  Following V-E Day, the squadron returned to the United States and was inactivated at Camp Kilmer, New Jersey, the port of embarkation.


== History ==


=== World War II ===

The 383rd Fighter Squadron was activated on 1 June 1943 at Grand Central Airport (California), California as one of the three original squadrons of the 364th Fighter Group,  The squadron trained with Lockheed P-38 Lightnings at various bases in California through 1943, and departed for the European Theater of Operations in January 1944. 
It arrived at its combat station, RAF Honington, England in February 1944, where it became part of VIII Fighter Command.  The squadron flew its first mission with its Lightnings on 3 March 1944.
However, during that month, engine problems plagued the group's P-38s, with 16 of them failing to return from missions during the month, including the group commander, Colonel Frederick C. Grambo, while he was flying an orientation mission with the 20th Fighter Group.  While the squadron flew dive bombing, strafing and patrol missions in France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany, it initially operated primarily as an escort for Boeing B-17 Flying Fortress and Consolidated B-24 Liberator heavy bombers.

It patrolled the English Channel during the D-Day landings in Normandy on 6 June 1944.  While it continued flying bomber escort missions, it supported ground forces in France after the invasion by strafing and bombing locomotives, marshalling yards, bridges, barges and other targets.  In July, it began to convert from its Lightnings to North American P-51 Mustangs, completing the switch in late July.  The 364th Group had lost almost as many Lightnings as its claims of enemy aircraft destroyed, with the majority of the losses due to accidents and engine failure, not enemy action.
In the summer of 1944, and from then until the end of the war flew many long-range missions with its Mustangs, escorting heavy bombers that attacked oil refineries, industries and other strategic objectives in Berlin, Regensburg, Merseburg, Stuttgart, Brussels and elsewhere.  During a raid on Frankfurt on 27 December 1944, the squadron dispersed a large group of Luftwaffe interceptors attacking the Martin B-26 Marauder formation the group was escorting.  For this action, the unit was awarded the Distinguished Unit Citation.
In addition to its escort duties, the squadron also flew air sea rescue missions and carried out patrols.  It continued to support ground forces as the battle line moved through France and into Germany.  It participated in Operation Market Garden, the effort to secure a bridgehead across the Rhine, in September 1944, the Battle of the Bulge in December 1944 and January 1945, and Operation Lumberjack, the assault across the Rhine in Germany in March 1945.  The squadron was credited with the destruction of 76 enemy aircraft during the war. Major George Ceuleers, the squadron's leading ace with nine victories, shot down four German planes on 23 December 1944. Major Samuel Wickers, also an ace with seven victories, duplicated this feat eight days later.
The squadron flew its last combat mission on 25 April 1945.  Following V-E Day, the squadron remained at Honington, although many squadron members transferred to other units. In September, its remaining aircraft were transferred to depots.  Its remaining personnel sailed for the United States on the RMS Queen Elizabeth, departing on 4 November. It arrived at the port of embarkation, Camp Kilmer, New Jersey on 9 November 1945 and was inactivated the following day.


=== Active associate unit ===
The squadron was again activated on 1 February 2016 and assigned to the 495th Fighter Group at Buckley Space Force Base, Colorado.  It is an active duty associate of the Colorado Air National Guard's 120th Fighter Squadron, flying the 120th's General Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcons.


== Lineage ==
Constituted as the 383d Fighter Squadron (Twin Engine) on 25 May 1943
Activated on  1 June 1943
Redesignated 383d Fighter Squadron c. 28 July 1944
Inactivated on 10 November 1945
Activated on 1 February 2016


=== Assignments ===
364th Fighter Group, 1 June 1943 – 10 November 1945
495th Fighter Group, 1 February 2016 – present


=== Stations ===
Glendale Airport, California, 1 June 1943
Van Nuys Army Air Field,  California, 12 August 1943
Oxnard Flight Strip, California, c. 1 October 1943
Santa Maria Army Air Field, California, 27 December 1943 – 14 January 1944
RAF Honington (Sta 375), England, 10 February 1944 – c. 4 November 1945
Camp Kilmer, New Jersey, 9–10 November 1945
Buckley Air Force Base (later Buckley Space Force Base), Colorado, 1 February 2016 – present


=== Aircraft ===
Lockheed P-38 Lightning, 1943–1944
North American P-51D Mustang, 1944–1945
General Dynamics F-16 Fighting Falcon, 2016-present


=== Awards and campaigns ===


== References ==


=== Notes ===
Explanatory notes

Citations


=== Bibliography ===
 This article incorporates public domain material from the Air Force Historical Research Agency

Anderson, Capt. Barry (1985). Army Air Forces Stations: A Guide to the Stations Where U.S. Army Air Forces Personnel Served in the United Kingdom During World War II (PDF). Maxwell AFB, AL: Research Division, USAF Historical Research Center. Retrieved 1 March 2021.
Freeman, Roger A. (1970). The Mighty Eighth: Units, Men and Machines (A History of the US 8th Army Air Force). London, England, UK: Macdonald and Company. ISBN 978-0-87938-638-2.
Maurer, Maurer, ed. (1983) [1961]. Air Force Combat Units of World War II (PDF) (reprint ed.). Washington, DC: Office of Air Force History. ISBN 0-912799-02-1. LCCN 61060979. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 December 2016. Retrieved 17 December 2016.
Maurer, Maurer, ed. (1982) [1969]. Combat Squadrons of the Air Force, World War II (PDF) (reprint ed.). Washington, DC: Office of Air Force History. ISBN 0-405-12194-6. LCCN 70605402. OCLC 72556. Archived from the original (PDF) on 20 December 2016.
Newton, Wesely P. Jr.; Senning, Calvin F. (1963). "USAF Credits for the Destruction of Enemy Aircraft, World War II, USAF Historical Study No. 85" (PDF). Research Studies Institute, USAF Historical Division, Air University. Retrieved 27 July 2022.
Watkins, Robert (2008). Battle Colors: Insignia and Markings of the Eighth Air Force In World War II. Vol. II (VIII) Fighter Command. Atglen, PA: Shiffer Publishing Ltd. ISBN 978-0-7643-2535-9.

The Sid James filmography presents a chronology of motion picture and television appearances of the South African-born British-based actor and comedian Sid James, who worked extensively in the British film and television industries from 1947 until his death in 1976. He is best remembered for his roles in the Carry On franchise, appearing in 19 of the series' films between 1960 and 1974; he also appeared in The Lavender Hill Mob (1951), The Titfield Thunderbolt (1953) and Trapeze (1956). He was usually credited as Sidney James, unless stated differently below.
James also gained recognition for his regular roles in sitcoms, as criminally-inclined Sidney Balmoral James in both Hancock's Half Hour (1956–1960) and Citizen James (1960–1962), and as put-upon patriarch Sid Abbott in Bless this House (1971–1976).


== Film ==


== Television ==


== References ==

Rakuten Kobo Inc., commonly known as Kobo, is a Canadian company that sells ebooks, audiobooks and e-reader devices. The company is headquartered in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, and is a subsidiary of the Japanese technology conglomerate Rakuten Group.
Kobo operates a global digital reading platform that distributes ebooks and audiobooks through its online store and mobile applications. The company also develops the Kobo eReader line of electronic reading devices.
Kobo was founded in 2009 as Shortcovers by Michael Serbinis and was later renamed Kobo Inc. The company was acquired by Rakuten in 2012 for $315 million and became part of Rakuten's global digital content ecosystem.
The name Kobo is an anagram of the word book.


== History ==
Kobo originated as Shortcovers, a cloud eReading service launched by the Canadian bookstore chain Indigo Books and Music in February 2009. In December 2009, Indigo renamed the service Kobo and spun it off into an independent company. Indigo remained the majority owner, with investors including Borders, Cheung Kong Holdings, and REDgroup Retail taking minority stakes. As of March 2010, Indigo Books & Music owned 58% of Kobo Inc. Rakuten acquired the company from these owners in January 2012. On 23 May 2016, Waterstones announced it had sold its eBook business to Rakuten Kobo Inc., and as of 14 June 2016, users were required to access their eBooks via Kobo's eBook site.
During the COVID pandemic, Kobo worked with governments, publishers, and retail partners to provide more than 20 million free books through the “Stay Home and Read” programme. The company reported that romance and mystery novels continued to be bestsellers during the pandemic and that there was a rise in books for kids and young adults.


== Products ==


=== E-readers ===

Kobo produces several e-readers with ePaper screens. The first Kobo eReader was introduced in 2010. The product lineup went on to consist of the base model Kobo Touch, the smaller Kobo Mini, and the Kobo Glo, which has an illuminated screen. On the higher end, the Kobo Aura; the Kobo Aura HD, which added a higher-resolution screen, the waterproof Kobo Aura H2O; and the waterproof Kobo Forma which added physical buttons and a choice of orientation. In 2018, the company released the Kobo Clara HD as another 6-inch option (the Aura Edition 2 being the first).
In 2019, the Kobo Libra H2O was released. Kobo partnered with Hotel Viu Milan to create a Reader in Residence program and for a month, the Kobo Libra H2O was placed in hotel rooms for guests to use. In 2020, Kobo introduced the Kobo Nia, an entry-level e-reader to replace the discontinued Kobo Aura. In 2021, Kobo introduced the Kobo Elipsa, an e-reader and smart notebook that allows users to write on the screen. The Kobo Clara 2E,a 6-inch, waterproof e-reader made from recycled plastic, featuring Bluetooth for audiobooks and 16GB of storage was released in September 2022. In 2024, Kobo released two e-readers with full-colour displays: the Kobo Libra Colour, which is also compatible with a stylus, and the Kobo Clara Colour.
These eReaders compete with the Amazon Kindle and Barnes & Noble Nook product lines.
Kobo's eReaders use Wi-Fi to sync a user's book collection and bookmarks with Kobo's cloud service, which can also be accessed from Kobo eReading apps for Windows and macOS computers, Android and iOS smartphones.


=== Tablets ===
Kobo produced the Kobo Arc family of Android tablets, which it introduced in 2012 and refreshed in 2013. It previously sold the Kobo Vox, a 7-inch Android tablet released in 2011. In 2014, Kobo discontinued the Arc tablets and did not develop another one.


=== Applications ===
Kobo offers free reading applications for Windows and MacOS computers and Android and iOS smartphones. In June 2015, Kobo received a Top Developer badge in the Google Play store. In 2017, Kobo acquired Shelfie, an app that organises personal libraries.


=== Kobo Plus Subscription Service ===
Kobo Plus is the company's unlimited audiobook and eBook subscription service. It was first released in the Netherlands and Belgium in 2017 and then expanded to Canada in 2020. In 2021, Kobo signed an agreement with LeYa, a Portuguese publishing group, and launched Kobo Plus e_LeYa, which made exclusive content available in Portugal.
As of May 2021, Kobo Plus offered 599,000 eBooks and 94,000 audiobooks. Books are available in many languages. Readers can choose to subscribe to only eBooks or to expand the service with Kobo Plus Listening, which includes audiobooks.


=== Store and publishing ===
Kobo's bookstore was opened in 2009. Content sold on the Kobo Bookstore includes eBooks, Audiobooks, newspapers, and magazines. The majority of titles are sold in the open ePub format, albeit with Digital rights management.
Several digital bookstores have closed down and transferred their users to Kobo's bookstore. They include the defunct Borders, as well as the Sony Reader Store. Both have provided tools for users to migrate purchases and information to Kobo's offering.
On 17 July 2012, Kobo launched a self-publishing platform called Kobo Writing Life (KWL). Key features of Kobo Writing Life include "deep analytics", allowing authors to track sales in real-time; a "learning centre" to guide newcomers in digital publishing; and allowing an author to sell books globally.
In 2019, KWL began offering self-publishing opportunities for Audiobooks.


=== Emerging Writer Prize ===
The Kobo Emerging Writer Prize awards three first-time Canadian authors with Ca$10,000 each. The awards are given in three categories, Literary Fiction, Nonfiction, and Genre Fiction, with the genre selection changing each year. Traditionally published, and self-published books are eligible, and authors receive marketing and communications support during their winning year.
In 2021, the award's seventh year, the winning authors were: Michelle Good, author of Five Little Indians (Fiction); Eternity Martis, author of They Said This Would Be Fun (Nonfiction); and Emily Hepditch, author of The Woman in the Attic (Mystery).
At the same time as the Libra 2, the Kobo Sage was also introduced as a new top model. It has an 8" E-Ink Carta 1200 display with a resolution of 1440 × 1920 pixels and 32 GB internal memory. A Bluetooth module and a USB-C port have also been installed. In addition, as with the Elipsa, it is possible to capture notes on the device with a stylus. 


== Sales and market share ==
Kobo sells its devices online and through physical retail channels. The company's strategic partnerships have included Cheung Kong Holdings, WHSmith, Whitcoulls, FNAC, Livraria Cultura, and Eslite Bookstore. Kobo partnered with Australian online bookseller Booktopia and also has a programme partnering with independent bookstores to sell their devices.
In 2012, Wired named Kobo as the "only global competitor to Amazon [in the eBook market]" with over 20% of the worldwide market.
Kobo Inc. released eBook reading data collected from over 21 million readers worldwide in 2014. Some of the data said that only 45% of UK readers finished the bestselling eBook The Goldfinch.
As of August 2018, Amazon's Kindle eReader had an 83.6% share of the U.S. eReader market while Kobo had a 13.4% share.


=== Venture with Walmart ===
In 2018, the company and Walmart contracted to allow the latter to sell Kobo audiobooks, eBooks and eReaders in the U.S. This was the first venture into eBooks for the retailer which also began selling the Kobo eReaders. Walmart installed eReader stations in over 1,000 stores. Their eBook Web site was listing over 6 million titles. The retailer also began to offer subscriptions for audiobooks at a monthly fee.


=== Venture with Bol ===
In the Netherlands, Bol.com is contracted to sell Kobo audiobooks, eBooks and eReaders.


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

Super Mario Spikers was a planned video game developed by Next Level Games, planned for release on the Wii video game console. The game was worked on in 2006 and 2007, but never formally announced as a title in development until a prototype was leaked in 2014.


== Gameplay ==
The game was described as a hybrid of volleyball and wrestling, with elements of a game show.


== Development ==
Development of the game began in late 2006, shortly after Next Level Games had completed Mario Strikers Charged. As a reward for the success of the prior two Mario Strikers adaptations of the Mario franchise to the world of soccer, and Nintendo's general success with creating sports adaptations with Mario characters, Nintendo financed Next Level Games' efforts to create a pitch for a volleyball game. The title started off as Mario Volleyball, a simple take on Mario characters playing volleyball, similar to Mario Golf or Mario Tennis. Over time, the development team decided to implement elements of wrestling to the game, changing the title to Super Mario Spikers and adding more aggressive gameplay, making it more similar to their two prior Mario soccer games in both title and concept. This decision was inspired by Next Level Games' involvement in also developing a cancelled WWE game prior to Super Mario Strikers.
Nintendo was initially open to the idea, giving the budget to follow through as a reward for the completion of Mario Strikers Charged. However, after Nintendo saw the team's pitch, it was not green-lit due to the level of violence present. A playable prototype was created before development ceased in 2007. An unnamed member of the development team stated that the game clashing with Nintendo's "code of honor" was the reason for its rejection.


== Aftermath and legacy ==
The game went entirely unannounced until information on it was leaked by the video game website "Unseen 64" in September 2014. Only test footage and concept art were ever released from the project. Despite Nintendo passing on the game, Next Level Games would continue to work with Nintendo and their properties, with the team next developing the Wii console's Punch-Out!!, and Luigi's Mansion: Dark Moon.
Video game journalists lamented the game's cancellation. IGN included it on its October 2014 feature of "10 Most Heartbreaking Game Cancellations", likening the game's potential to V'Ball. Kotaku writer Alex Walker featured it in his list of cancelled games Nintendo could revive. GamesRadar felt that it was understandable why Nintendo did not green-light the project, citing an animation where Waluigi stomps on a downed Mario as being exceedingly violent for a Mario game.


== See also ==

Mario Sports Mix - Nintendo's eventual 2011 venture into volleyball with Mario characters, instead developed by Square Enix


== References ==


== External links ==
Unseen 64 - Information on initial pitch

"Rock 'n' Roll Train" is a song by the Australian hard rock band AC/DC. It is the first track on the album Black Ice to receive radio airplay. The band released a 7-inch vinyl single that featured the song "Rock 'n' Roll Train" on Side A, and "War Machine" on Side B. The 7-inch single came in a sleeve with its own unique artwork. The 7-inch vinyl was also made available in the United States through some independent record shops.
As with the success of the Black Ice album, the single was released to huge success. It was used in many television advertisements, more often being used as ESPN sports bumpers. It hit No. 1 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks, staying there for three weeks. The song was also the first by AC/DC to chart on Billboard Alternative Songs chart.
"Rock 'n Roll Train" has been a staple of the band's live concert performances since it was released in 2008 although it was removed from the setlist halfway during the Power Up Tour in 2025. Due to its popularity among fans, AC/DC has performed it over 250 times as of December 2024, making it one of the group's top thirty most-played pieces (above earlier released tracks with related titles such as "It's a Long Way to the Top (If You Wanna Rock 'n' Roll)" and "Rock 'n' Roll Damnation").


== Background ==
Originally composed with the title "Runaway Train", the song was first heard by fans on 15 August 2008, at the shooting of its music video in Black Island Studios in London.
The song is notable for the novel way it was leaked online when one Scottish fan at the video shoot memorized the riff and sung it on YouTube, with other YouTubers adding vocals and further guitar parts. Angus Young initially conceived the song, and his brother Malcolm Young created the backing vocal harmony of the chorus ("Running right off the track"). The song is also centered around guitar riffs and elemental drum beats.
On 27 August 2008, close to midnight, the single was uploaded to AC/DC's official website and AC/DC's MySpace. It made its worldwide radio debut on 28 August at 17:00 New Zealand time on The Rock radio station. Many Australian stations played the song straight after their 4:00 pm news services. The song later made its way onto classic rock radio stations Planet Rock, Absolute Radio Classic Rock, Radio Caroline, radio2XS and Rock Radio in the UK. The song made its North American debut on 28 August on CKQB-FM in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.  "Rock 'n' Roll Train" debuted at number one on the Canadian rock chart for the week ending 5 September.
On 30 August 2008, the first Saturday of the U.S. college football season, the song was played extensively on ESPN and ABC college football broadcasts as intro and bumper music, along with other AC/DC songs "Thunderstruck" and "For Those About to Rock (We Salute You)". It was also played on a promo for CBS's Criminal Minds. It peaked at number one on the U.S. Billboard Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks chart. In November 2008 the song became AC/DC's first song to enter the U.S. dance chart as a result of several white label remixes being played in clubs.
Throughout the month of November, the World Wrestling Entertainment website featured the music video for "Rock 'N' Roll Train", as well as the song "Spoilin' for a Fight", which was the theme to the Survivor Series 2008.
The song was used to open shows on the Black Ice tour. A cartoon was played on the giant video screen above the stage; at the end of this cartoon a life-sized train came crashing out onto the stage. It is at this point that the band came out on stage and proceeded to play the song.
The song "Rock 'N' Roll Train" was also used in an episode of Knight Rider titled "Knight to King's Pawn".


== Track listing ==
"Rock 'n' Roll Train" – 4:21
"War Machine" – 3:09


== Music video ==
On 15 August 2008, AC/DC filmed the music video to accompany the song in London, where 150 contest winners and their guests were present. The video premiered on 19 September on the band's official website.
On 23 October 2008, the band released the music video online in ASCII art in a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet format – the first music video to be produced in such format.
The video also featured clips of the short film London to Brighton in Four Minutes.


== Awards ==
In 2009, "Rock 'n' Roll Train" was nominated for a Grammy award for Best Rock Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal. It also won an APRA Award for Most Played Australian Work Overseas.
In 2018 "Rock 'n' Roll Train" was voted number 6 by Absolute Radio listeners in their "Song of our Decade" poll.


== Chart performance ==


== Certifications ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Lyrics on the official website

The 2005 Saskatchewan Roughriders finished in fourth place in the West Division with a 9–9 record. They crossed over to the east and appeared in the East Semi-Final where they lost to the Montreal Alouettes.


== Offseason ==


=== CFL draft ===


=== Preseason ===


== Regular season ==


=== Season standings ===


=== Season schedule ===


== Roster ==


== Awards and records ==
CFL's Most Outstanding Offensive Lineman Award – Gene Makowsky
Jeff Nicklin Memorial Trophy – Corey Holmes (RB)


=== CFL All-Star selections ===
Eddie Davis, Defensive Back
Andrew Greene, Offensive Guard
Corey Holmes, Special Teams
Gene Makowsky, Offensive Tackle
Omarr Morgan, Cornerback
Scott Schultz, Defensive Tackle


=== Western All-Star selections ===
Eddie Davis, Defensive Back
Andrew Greene, Offensive Guard
Corey Holmes, Special Teams
Gene Makowsky, Offensive Tackle
Omarr Morgan, Cornerback
Scott Schultz, Defensive Tackle
Elijah Thurmon, Wide Receiver


== Playoffs ==


=== East Semi-Final ===


== References ==

Matías Gabriel Vera (born 20 November 1995) is an Argentine professional footballer who plays as a defensive midfielder for Central Córdoba.


== Career ==


=== Nueva Chicago ===
Vera started his career with Nueva Chicago and came through their youth ranks, serving as a captain for his teams. He originally played as a right winger and right back before his coaches moved him to defensive midfield due to his ball winning ability and natural instincts.  Vera was promoted to the first team during the 2015 Argentine Primera División season. He made his debut on 6 April in a 2–1 defeat to Banfield and went on to make 17 appearances across all competitions in his first season. Nueva Chicago were relegated to Primera B Nacional in 2015, where they remained for the next three seasons as Vera featured sixty-eight times for them in all competitions while also scoring twice, netting in games with All Boys and Atlético Paraná.


=== O'Higgins ===
In January 2018, Vera joined Argentine Primera División side San Lorenzo. However, he was immediately loaned to O'Higgins of the Chilean Primera División.
His first appearance for O'Higgins was against Huachipato on 18 February 2018 in matchweek 1 of the Primera División season.  He would start the first 8 games of the season before he missed matchweek 9 after getting two yellow cards in the previous match.  He returned to the starting lineup for matchweek 10 Vera scored his first goal for O'Higgins on 25 August in a 1–1 draw with his first  Unión Española. Vera was suspended for their matchweek 29 game due to yellow card accumulation. He returned to the lineup in matchweek 30, the final week of the season, and scored in a 4–0 win over Audax Italiano. Vera started 30 out of a possible 32 games for O'Higgins, only missing out on 2 due to suspension. O'Higgins finished the season eighth in the table, missing out on qualification to 2019 Copa Sudamericana first stage to Unión Española on goal difference.


=== Houston Dynamo ===
On 21 December 2018, Vera signed with the Houston Dynamo of Major League Soccer. The reported transfer fee was around $1 million.  Vera made his Dynamo debut on 19 February, playing all 90 minutes in a 1–0 win over CD Guastatoya in the CONCACAF Champions League. He played every minute of the tournament as Houston reached the quarter-finals, where they were eliminated by Tigres UANL. Vera made his MLS debut on 2 March in a 1–1 draw with Real Salt Lake, but he was sent off after picking up two yellow cards. He scored for the Dynamo for the first time on 11 June, netting in a 3–2 win over Austin Bold in the U.S. Open Cup. Although Houston missed out on the playoffs, Vera enjoyed a strong debut season, leading the team in minutes played with 2,639 in the league and 3,088 in all competitions. He was voted as the team MVP and Newcomer of the Year by local journalists and the Dynamo staff.
Vera and the Dynamo opened the season on February 29 with a 1–1 draw against the LA Galaxy.  After the second game of the year, the season was paused due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with play resuming in July.  Vera played in 20 of a possible 23 games in a shortened season, anchoring the Dynamo midfield.  He served as team captain for 11 of the games during the season, as the primary captain, Boniek Garcia, missed time with an injury and also featured primarily as a substitute.  It was another poor season for the Dynamo as a team, finishing bottom of the Western Conference and failing to qualify for the playoffs again.
On 16 April 2021, Vera made his first appearance of the season, playing the full 90 minutes in a 2–1 win over the San Jose Earthquakes in matchweek 1.  He scored his first goal of the season, and first career MLS goal, on 29 May in a 3–2 loss to Sporting Kansas City.  On 21 August, Vera scored the equalizer to give the Dynamo a 2–2 draw against Texas Derby rivals FC Dallas.  He ended the season with 3 goals and 1 assist in 30 appearances, as the Dynamo finished last in the Western Conference again.  On 29 November 2021, Vera signed a new contract keeping him in Houston through the 2023 season, with a team option for 2024.
Vera featured frequently again in 2022, making 28 appearances (all starts) and recording 2 assists in the 2022 regular season  However the Dynamo missed out on the playoffs again after finishing 13th in the conference.


==== Loan to Argentinos Juniors ====
On 9 January 2023, Vera returned to Argentina, joining Primera División side Argentinos Juniors on loan for the 2023 season.


== Career statistics ==
As of 19 February 2023


== Honors ==
Houston Dynamo

Dynamo Team MVP: 2019
Dynamo Newcomer of the Year: 2019


== References ==


== External links ==
Matías Vera at Soccerway

3345 Tarkovskij, provisional designation 1982 YC1, is a carbonaceous background asteroid from the inner regions of the asteroid belt, approximately 22 kilometers (14 miles) in diameter. It was discovered on 23 December 1982, by Russian astronomer Lyudmila Karachkina at the Crimean Astrophysical Observatory in Nauchnyj, on the Crimean peninsula, and named after filmmaker Andrei Tarkovsky. The C-type asteroid is a slow rotator with a rotation period of 187 hours.


== Orbit and classification ==
Tarkovskij is a non-family asteroid from the main belt's background population. It orbits the Sun in the inner main-belt at a distance of 2.0–2.9 AU once every 3 years and 11 months (1,420 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.19 and an inclination of 16° with respect to the ecliptic.
It was first observed as 1938 QC at the Heidelberg Observatory in 1938, extending the body's observation arc by 44 years prior to its official discovery observation at Nauchnyj.


== Naming ==
This minor planet named after the Soviet theater director and film-maker Andrei Tarkovsky (1932—1986). The approved naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 31 May 1988 (M.P.C. 13176).


== Physical characteristics ==
In the SMASS classification, Tarkovskij is a carbonaceous C-type asteroid, unusual for inner-belt asteroids which are typically of a stony composition.


=== Slow rotator ===
In January 2014, a rotational lightcurve of Tarkovskij was obtained from photometric observations taken at the Belgrade Observatory and the CS3 DanHenge Observatory (U80). Lightcurve analysis gave a rotation period of 187 hours with a brightness variation of 0.59 magnitude (U=3-). This makes it a slow rotator, as most asteroids have periods shorter than 20 hours.


=== Diameter and albedo ===
According to the surveys carried out by the Infrared Astronomical Satellite IRAS, the Japanese Akari satellite, and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer with its subsequent NEOWISE mission, Tarkovskij measures between 21.02 and 24.17 kilometers in diameter and its surface has an albedo between 0.0407 and 0.096. The Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link derives an albedo of 0.0526 and adopts a diameter of 24.17 kilometers with on an absolute magnitude of 11.9 from the IRAS results.


== References ==
 


== External links ==
3345 Tarkovskij occults TYC
Asteroid Lightcurve Database (LCDB), query form (info Archived 16 December 2017 at the Wayback Machine)
Dictionary of Minor Planet Names, Google books
Asteroids and comets rotation curves, CdR – Observatoire de Genève, Raoul Behrend
Discovery Circumstances: Numbered Minor Planets (1)-(5000) – Minor Planet Center
3345 Tarkovskij at AstDyS-2, Asteroids—Dynamic Site
Ephemeris · Observation prediction · Orbital info · Proper elements · Observational info
3345 Tarkovskij at the JPL Small-Body Database

Ueda Station (上田駅, Ueda-eki) is a railway station in the city of Ueda, Nagano, Japan, jointly operated by the East Japan Railway Company (JR East), the third-sector operator Shinano Railway, and the private railway operator Ueda Electric Railway.


== Lines ==
Ueda Station is served by the following lines.

Hokuriku Shinkansen (formerly named the Nagano Shinkansen), of which it is 189.2 kilometers from Tokyo Station.
Shinano Railway Line, on which it is 40.6 kilometers from Karuizawa Station
Ueda Electric Railway Bessho Line, of which it is the terminus


== Station layout ==


=== JR East platforms ===
The JR East station has two elevated opposed side platforms serving two tracks with the station building located underneath. The station has a Midori no Madoguchi staffed ticket office.


=== Shinano Railway platforms ===
The Shinano Railway station has one ground-level side platform and one ground-level island platform serving a total of three tracks.


=== Ueda Electric Railway platform ===
The Ueda Electric Railway station has one ground-level dead-headed side platform serving a single bi-directional track.


== History ==
The station first opened on 15 August 1888. Local JR East trains services were transferred to the control of the Shinano Railway from 1 October 1997 with the opening of the Nagano Shinkansen. The Ueda Electric Railway station opened on 15 August 1924.
Station numbering was introduced to the Ueda Electric Railway platforms in August 2016 with Ueda being assigned station number BE01.


== Passenger statistics ==
In fiscal 2015, the JR East portion of the station was used by an average of 2,860 passengers daily (boarding passengers only).


== Bus routes ==


=== Oshiro guchi (お城口) ===
Track 1

Chikuma Bus
Kakeyu Line
Aoki Line
Muroga Line
Nezu Line
Kendo Kawanishi Line
Takeshi Line
Utsukuhsigahara Yamamotokoya Line
Expressway Bus Ikebukuro・Shijuku Line for Shinjuku Highway Bus Terminal
Exprssway Bus Tachikawa Line for Tachikawa Station
Expressway Bus Kyoto・Osaka Line for Osaka Station via Kyoto Station
Limited express Bus Ueda・Matsumoto Line for Matsumoto Bus Terminal ※Runs on holidays and all days of August.
Track 2

Ueda Bus
Sanada Line
Shibusawa Line
Soehi Line
Hoden Line
Shinshu Ueda Iryo Center Line
Shioda Line
Ario Ueda Line
Kubobayashi Line
Track 3

Ueda Bus
Sugadaira Kogen Line
"Shinshu no Kamakura Koto meguri Line" (Sightseeing Bus)
"Sanada Ichizoku no Sato meguri Line" (Sightseeing Bus)
"Furinkazan to Kawanakajimakassen Line" (Sightseeing Bus)
Limited express Bus Yubatake Ueda・Kusatsu Onsen Line for Kusatsu Onsen Bus Terminal ※Runs on partly days.
JR Bus
Wadatoge Kita Line
Expressway Bus Dream Shinshu for Kyoto Station・Osaka Station
Track 4
＊Circular-route Bus in Ueda

"Aka Bus"
"Ao Bus"
Ueda Machinaka Junkai Bus


=== Onsen guchi ===
Azumino Taxi  – for Hotaka Station


== Surrounding area ==
Ueda Castle


== See also ==
List of railway stations in Japan


== References ==


== External links ==

JR East Ueda Station
Shinano Railway Ueda Station
Ueda Electric Railway timetable

Merrill Monroe Jensen (July 16, 1905 – January 30, 1980) was an American historian, whose research and writing focused on the ratification of the United States Constitution.  His historical interpretations are generally considered to be of the "Progressive School" of American history, the most famous exponent of which was Charles A. Beard.  Jensen was a professor of history at the University of Washington (1935–1944), where he was editor of Pacific Northwest Quarterly, and the University of Wisconsin–Madison (1944–1976).


== Life ==
Born in Iowa, Jensen took a job as a teacher in a one-room schoolhouse in South Dakota upon graduating from high school.  In 1929 he earned a bachelor's degree at the University of Washington.  He completed a Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1934, under the guidance of William B. Hesseltine.  Except for a short stint as a historian for the Army Air Corps in 1944, his career was spent at his undergraduate and graduate alma maters. He was appointed Harold Vyvyan Harmsworth Professor of American History at Oxford University in 1949–1950.
He and his wife Genevieve Margaret Privet had one daughter.  He died in Madison, Wisconsin, on January 30, 1980.


== Views ==
Jensen viewed the American Revolution was "an internal revolution carried on by the masses of the people against the local aristocracy."  His early scholarship challenged the "consensus" interpretation of the Constitutional ratification process, arguing that the Articles of Confederation were a better expression of genuine democratic values than was the Constitution.  The replacement of the Articles with the Constitution, Jensen argued, created a system of government that minimized the influence of radical democracy rooted in local politics.
From his reading of the documentary evidence, Jensen identified deep ideological conflicts among Americans at the time of the ratification.  His later scholarship focused heavily on primary documents, and he edited a number of substantial document collections, including The Documentary History of the First Federal Elections, 1788-1790 (launched in 1976 and completed in 1989 by his students Robert A. Becker and Gordon denBoer) and The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution and the Bill of Rights, (launched in 1976 and as of 5 June 2018 filling 29 of a projected 31 volumes).


== Books authored ==
The Articles of Confederation: An Interpretation of the Social-Constitutional History of the American Revolution, 1774-1781 (University of Wisconsin Press, 1940)
The New Nation: A History of the United States during the Confederation, 1781-1789 (1950)
The Founding of a Nation: A History of the American Revolution, 1763-1776 (Oxford University Press, 1968)
The American Revolution within America (New York University Press, 1974)


== Works edited ==
Regionalism in America (1951)
English Historical Documents, Volume IX, American Colonial Documents to 1776 (1955)
The Making of the American Constitution (1964)
Tracts of the American Revolution, 1763-1776 (1967)
The Documentary History of the First Federal Elections, Volume I, 1788-1790 (1976), edited with Robert A. Becker.
The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution, Vols. I-III:, edited with John P. Kaminski and Gaspare J. Saladino.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
David S. Lovejoy, "Merrill Monroe Jensen," Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society, Vol. 92 (1980), pps. 140–143.
Stephen E. Patterson, "Interested Parties: Merrill Jensen and the Documentary History of Ratification," The William and Mary Quarterly, Vol. 59, No. 3 (July 2002), pps. 776-786


== External links ==
"Center for the Study of the American Constitution". Retrieved 29 Sep 2014.

Jiro Harada (原田 治郎, Harada Jirō; November 10, 1894 – December 20, 1989) was a lieutenant general in the Imperial Japanese Army during World War II.
He was the commander of the IJA 100th Division during the Battle of Mindanao, one of the strongest forces in the area. He was in charge of most of the defenses on the island, along with Lt. Gen. Gyosaku Morozumi and Rear Admiral Naoji Doi. Despite his bravery, Harada had to retreat, also refusing to defend the city of Davao. At Kibangay, the pursuit halted and Harada was able to stop the long and tiring retreat. He ordered his troops to disperse and forage in the mountains, effectively disbanding the 100th Division.


== References ==


== Sources ==
Books.google.com
generals.dk

The World Congress of Universal Documentation was held from 16 to 21 August 1937 in Paris, France.   Delegates from 45 countries met to discuss means by which all of the world's information, in print, in manuscript, and in other forms, could be efficiently organized and made accessible.


== The Congress in the history of information science ==
The Congress, held at the Trocadéro under "the auspices" of the Institut International de Bibliographie, was "the apotheosis" of a general movement in the 1930s towards the classification of the growing mass of information and the improvement of access to that information.  For the first time in the history of information science, technological means were beginning to catch up with theoretical ends, and the discussions at the conference reflected that fact.  Its participation in the Congress was one of the first projects of the American Documentation Institute (ADI).  Participants in the conference discussed what has been more recently called "a continuously updated hypertext encyclopedia."  Joseph Reagle sees many of the ideas considered at the conference as forerunners of some of the key goals and norms of Wikipedia.


== Microfilm ==
The main resolution adopted by the congress proposed that microfilm be used to make information universally available.  Watson Davis, chairman of the American delegation and president of the ADI, stated that the volume of information being produced created difficult problems of access and preservation, but that these could be solved by the use of microfilm.  In his address to the Congress, Davis said:

Most immediate and practical to put into operation is the microfilming of material in libraries upon demand.  It will become fashionable and economical to send a potential book borrower a little strip of microfilm for his permanent possession instead of the book and then badgering him to return it before he has had a chance to use it effectively.  I believe that reading machines for microfilm will become as common as typewriters in studies and laboratories.  If the principal libraries and information centers of the world will cooperate in such "bibliofilm services," as they are called, if they exchange orders and have essentially uniform methods, forms for ordering, standard microfilm format and production methods and comparable if not uniform prices, the resources of any library will be placed at the disposal of any scholar or scientist anywhere in the world.  All the libraries cooperating will merge into one world library without loss of identity or individuality.  The world's documentation will become available to even the most isolated and individualistic scholar. 

The Congress included two separate exhibits on microfilm. One was of the equipment used at the Bibliothèque nationale de France and the other, coordinated by Herman H. Fussler of the University of Chicago, consisting of "an entire microfilm laboratory," complete with cameras, a darkroom, and various kinds of reading machines.  Emanuel Goldberg presented a paper on an early copying camera he had invented.
Other resolutions passed by the Congress concerned uniform standards for the preparation of articles, for classifying books and other documents, for indexing newspapers and periodicals, and for cooperation between libraries.


== H. G. Wells ==

In his address to the Congress, H. G. Wells said that he thought that his idea of the "world brain" was a precursor to the ideas other delegates were proposing, and explicitly linked the projects being discussed to the work of the encyclopédistes:

I am speaking of a process of mental organization throughout the world which I believe to be as inevitable as anything can be in human affairs.  All the distresses and horrors of the present time are fundamentally intellectual.  The world has to pull its mind together, and this [Congress] is the beginning of its efforts.  Civilization is a Phoenix.  It perishes in flames and even as it dies it is born again.  This synthesis of knowledge upon which you are working is the necessary beginning of a new world.
It is good to be meeting here in Paris where the first encyclopedia of power was made.  It would be impossible to overrate our debt to Diderot and his associates. 


== Other participants ==
Participants in the Congress included authors, librarians, scholars, archivists, scientists, and editors.  Some of the notable people in attendance not mentioned above were:


== See also ==
Congress
Documentation science
Information science
International Encyclopedia of Unified Science § International Congresses for the Unity of Science –  The Third International Congress for the Unity of Science was held in Paris a few weeks before the World Congress of Universal Documentation


== References ==

A PIN diode is a diode with a wide, undoped intrinsic semiconductor region between a p-type semiconductor and an n-type semiconductor region. The p-type and n-type regions are typically heavily doped because they are used for ohmic contacts.
The wide intrinsic region is in contrast to an ordinary p–n diode. The wide intrinsic region makes the PIN diode an inferior rectifier (one typical function of a diode), but it makes it suitable for attenuators, fast switches, photodetectors, and high-voltage power electronics applications.
The PIN photodiode was invented by Jun-Ichi Nishizawa and his colleagues in 1950. It is a semiconductor device.


== Operation ==
A PIN diode operates under what is known as high-level injection. In other words, the intrinsic "i" region is flooded with charge carriers from the "p" and "n" regions.  Its function can be likened to filling up a water bucket with a hole on the side.  Once the water reaches the hole's level it will begin to pour out. Similarly, the diode will conduct current once the flooded electrons and holes reach an equilibrium point, where the number of electrons is equal to the number of holes in the intrinsic region.
When the diode is forward biased, the injected carrier concentration is typically several orders of magnitude higher than the intrinsic carrier concentration. Due to this high level injection, which in turn is due to the depletion process, the electric field extends deeply (almost the entire length) into the region. This electric field helps in speeding up of the transport of charge carriers from the P to the N region, which results in faster operation of the diode, making it a suitable device for high-frequency operation.


== Characteristics ==
The PIN diode obeys the standard diode equation for low-frequency signals. At higher frequencies, the diode looks like an almost perfect (very linear, even for large signals) resistor. The P-I-N diode has a relatively large stored charge adrift in a thick intrinsic region. At a low-enough frequency, the stored charge can be fully swept and the diode turns off. At higher frequencies, there is not enough time to sweep the charge from the drift region, so the diode never turns off. The time required to sweep the stored charge from a diode junction is its reverse recovery time, and it is relatively long in a PIN diode. For a given semiconductor material, on-state impedance, and minimum usable RF frequency, the reverse recovery time is fixed. This property can be exploited; one variety of P-I-N diode, the step recovery diode, exploits the abrupt impedance change at the end of the reverse recovery to create a narrow impulse waveform useful for frequency multiplication with high multiples.
The high-frequency resistance is inversely proportional to the DC bias current through the diode. A PIN diode, suitably biased, therefore acts as a variable resistor. This high-frequency resistance may vary over a wide range (from 0.1 Ω to 10 kΩ in some cases; the useful range is smaller, though).
The wide intrinsic region also means the diode will have a low capacitance when reverse-biased.
In a PIN diode the depletion region exists almost completely within the intrinsic region. This depletion region is much larger than in a PN diode and almost constant-size, independent of the reverse bias applied to the diode. This increases the volume where electron-hole pairs can be generated by an incident photon. Some photodetector devices, such as PIN photodiodes and phototransistors (in which the base-collector junction is a PIN diode), use a PIN junction in their construction.
The diode design has some design trade-offs. Increasing the cross-section area of the intrinsic region increases its stored charge reducing its RF on-state resistance while also increasing reverse bias capacitance and increasing the drive current required to remove the charge during a fixed switching time, with no effect on the minimum time required to sweep the charge from the I region. Increasing the thickness of the intrinsic region increases the total stored charge, decreases the minimum RF frequency, and decreases the reverse-bias capacitance, but doesn't decrease the forward-bias RF resistance and increases the minimum time required to sweep the drift charge and transition from low to high RF resistance. Diodes are sold commercially in a variety of geometries for specific RF bands and uses.


== Applications ==
PIN diodes are useful as RF switches, attenuators, photodetectors, and phase shifters.


=== RF and microwave switches ===

Under zero- or reverse-bias (the "off" state), a PIN diode has a low capacitance. The low capacitance will not pass much of an RF signal. Under a forward bias of 1 mA (the "on" state), a typical PIN diode will have an RF resistance of about 1 ohm, making it a good conductor of RF. Consequently, the PIN diode makes a good RF switch.
Although RF relays can be used as switches, they switch relatively slowly (on the order of tens of milliseconds). A PIN diode switch can switch much more quickly (e.g., 1 microsecond), although at lower RF frequencies it isn't reasonable to expect switching times in the same order of magnitude as the RF period.
For example, the capacitance of an "off"-state discrete PIN diode might be 1 pF. At 320 MHz, the capacitive reactance of 1 pF is 497 ohms:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                
                  Z
                  
                    
                      d
                      i
                      o
                      d
                      e
                    
                  
                
              
              
                
                =
                
                  
                    1
                    
                      2
                      π
                      f
                      C
                    
                  
                
              
            
            
              
              
                
                =
                
                  
                    1
                    
                      2
                      π
                      (
                      320
                      ×
                      
                        10
                        
                          6
                        
                      
                      
                      
                        H
                        z
                      
                      )
                      (
                      1
                      ×
                      
                        10
                        
                          −
                          12
                        
                      
                      
                      
                        F
                      
                      )
                    
                  
                
              
            
            
              
              
                
                =
                497
                
                Ω
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}Z_{\mathrm {diode} }&={\frac {1}{2\pi fC}}\\&={\frac {1}{2\pi (320\times 10^{6}\,\mathrm {Hz} )(1\times 10^{-12}\,\mathrm {F} )}}\\&=497\,\Omega \end{aligned}}}
  

As a series element in a 50 ohm system, the off-state attenuation is:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              
                A
              
              
                
                =
                20
                
                  log
                  
                    10
                  
                
                ⁡
                
                  (
                  
                    
                      
                        
                          Z
                          
                            
                              l
                              o
                              a
                              d
                            
                          
                        
                        +
                        
                          Z
                          
                            
                              s
                              o
                              u
                              r
                              c
                              e
                            
                          
                        
                      
                      
                        
                          Z
                          
                            
                              s
                              o
                              u
                              r
                              c
                              e
                            
                          
                        
                        +
                        
                          Z
                          
                            
                              d
                              i
                              o
                              d
                              e
                            
                          
                        
                        +
                        
                          Z
                          
                            
                              l
                              o
                              a
                              d
                            
                          
                        
                      
                    
                  
                  )
                
              
            
            
              
              
                
                =
                20
                
                  log
                  
                    10
                  
                
                ⁡
                
                  (
                  
                    
                      
                        50
                        
                        Ω
                        +
                        50
                        
                        Ω
                      
                      
                        50
                        
                        Ω
                        +
                        497
                        
                        Ω
                        +
                        50
                        
                        Ω
                      
                    
                  
                  )
                
              
            
            
              
              
                
                =
                
                  15.52
                
                
                
                  d
                  B
                
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\begin{aligned}A&=20\log _{10}\left({\frac {Z_{\mathrm {load} }+Z_{\mathrm {source} }}{Z_{\mathrm {source} }+Z_{\mathrm {diode} }+Z_{\mathrm {load} }}}\right)\\&=20\log _{10}\left({\frac {50\,\Omega +50\,\Omega }{50\,\Omega +497\,\Omega +50\,\Omega }}\right)\\&={15.52}\,\mathrm {dB} \end{aligned}}}
  

This attenuation may not be adequate. In applications where higher isolation is needed, both shunt and series elements may be used, with the shunt diodes biased in complementary fashion to the series elements. Adding shunt elements effectively reduces the source and load impedances, reducing the impedance ratio and increasing the off-state attenuation. However, in addition to the added complexity, the on-state attenuation is increased due to the series resistance of the on-state blocking element and the capacitance of the off-state shunt elements.
PIN diode switches are used not only for signal selection, but also component selection. For example, some low-phase-noise oscillators use them to range-switch inductors.


=== RF and microwave variable attenuators ===

By changing the bias current through a PIN diode, it is possible to quickly change its RF resistance.
At high frequencies, the PIN diode appears as a resistor whose resistance is an inverse function of its forward current. Consequently, PIN diode can be used in some variable attenuator designs as amplitude modulators or output leveling circuits.
PIN diodes might be used, for example, as the bridge and shunt resistors in a bridged-T attenuator. Another common approach is to use PIN diodes as terminations connected to the 0 degree and -90 degree ports of a quadrature hybrid. The signal to be attenuated is applied to the input port, and the attenuated result is taken from the isolation port. The advantages of this approach over the bridged-T and pi approaches are (1) complementary PIN diode bias drives are not needed—the same bias is applied to both diodes—and (2) the loss in the attenuator equals the return loss of the terminations, which can be varied over a very wide range.


=== Limiters ===
PIN diodes are sometimes designed for use as input protection devices for high-frequency test probes and other circuits. If the input signal is small, the PIN diode has negligible impact, presenting only a small parasitic capacitance. Unlike a rectifier diode, it does not present a nonlinear resistance at RF frequencies, which would give rise to harmonics and intermodulation products. If the signal is large, then when the PIN diode starts to rectify the signal, the forward current charges the drift region and the device RF impedance is inversely proportional to the signal amplitude. That signal amplitude varying resistance can be used to terminate some predetermined portion of the signal in a resistive network dissipating the energy or to create an impedance mismatch that reflects the incident signal back toward the source. The latter may be combined with an isolator, a device containing a circulator which uses a permanent magnetic field to break reciprocity and a resistive load to separate and terminate the backward traveling wave. When used as a shunt limiter the PIN diode impedance is low over the entire RF cycle, unlike paired rectifier diodes that would swing from a high resistance to a low resistance during each RF cycle clamping the waveform and not reflecting it as completely. The ionization recovery time of gas molecules that permits the creation of the higher power spark gap input protection device ultimately relies on similar physics in a gas.


=== Photodetector and photovoltaic cell ===
The PIN photodiode was invented by Jun-ichi Nishizawa and his colleagues in 1950.
PIN photodiodes are used in fibre optic network cards and switches. As a photodetector, the PIN diode has a reverse-bias. Under reverse bias, the diode ordinarily does not conduct (save a small dark current or Is leakage). When a photon of sufficient energy enters the depletion region of the diode, it creates an electron-hole pair. The reverse-bias field sweeps the carriers out of the region, creating current. Some detectors can use avalanche multiplication.
The same mechanism applies to the PIN structure, or p-i-n junction, of a solar cell. In this case, the advantage of using a PIN structure over conventional semiconductor p–n junction is better long-wavelength response of the former. In case of long wavelength irradiation, photons penetrate deep into the cell. But only those electron-hole pairs generated in and near the depletion region contribute to current generation. The depletion region of a PIN structure extends across the intrinsic region, deep into the device. This wider depletion width enables electron-hole pair generation deep within the device, which increases the quantum efficiency of the cell.
Commercially available PIN photodiodes have quantum efficiencies above 80-90% in the telecom wavelength range (~1500 nm), and are typically made of germanium or InGaAs. They feature fast response times (higher than their p-n counterparts), running into several tens of gigahertz, making them ideal for high speed optical telecommunication applications. Similarly, silicon p-i-n photodiodes have even higher quantum efficiencies, but can only detect wavelengths above the bandgap of silicon, i.e. ~1100 nm.
Typically, amorphous silicon thin-film cells use PIN structures. On the other hand, CdTe cells use NIP structure, a variation of the PIN structure. In a NIP structure, an intrinsic CdTe layer is sandwiched by n-doped CdS and p-doped ZnTe; the photons are incident on the n-doped layer, unlike in a PIN diode.
A PIN photodiode can also be used as a semiconductor detector to sense ionizing radiation.
In modern fiber-optical communications, the speed of optical transmitters and receivers is one of the most important parameters. Due to the small surface of the photodiode, its parasitic (unwanted) capacitance is reduced. The bandwidth of modern pin photodiodes is reaching the microwave and millimeter waves range.


== Example PIN photodiodes ==
SFH203 and BPW34 are cheap general purpose PIN diodes in 5 mm clear plastic cases with bandwidths over 100 MHz.


== See also ==
Fiber-optic cable
Interconnect bottleneck
Optical communication
Optical interconnect
Parallel optical interface
Step recovery diode


== References ==


== External links ==
The PIN Diode Designers' Handbook
PIN Limiter Diodes in Receiver Protectors, Skyworks application note

Leucospermum tomentosum is an evergreen, mostly spreading shrublet of approximately 75 cm (2.46 ft) high and up to 3 m (9.8 ft) in diameter, with alternately set, linear or narrowly spade-shaped, grey felty leaves, with one to three teeth near the tip. It has round, seated flower heads of 3–3.5 cm (1.2–1.4 in) in diameter, occurring in groups of one to four, and consisting of deep yellow, very sweet scented flowers. It can survive the occasional wildfire because it regenerates from the underground rootstock. It is an endemic species that is restricted to a narrow strip along the Atlantic coast of the Western Cape province of South Africa. The species flowers between June and November. It is called Saldanha pincushion in English.


== Description ==

Leucodendron tomentosum is an evergreen shrublet of 0.4–1.0 m (1.3–3.3 ft) high and 0.5–3 m (1.7–10 ft) in diameter, initially with upright and spreading branches, that later are weighted down by their own growth and develop roots where they touch the sand, from which point new branches emerge. The underground rootstock is stout and covered in a thick layer of bark, providing additional protection against fire. The main branches are stout and woody, 2–5 cm (0.79–1.97 in) in diameter. The flowering stems are upright to erect to spreading, 4–6 mm (0.16–0.24 in) diameter, covered in dense, short, cringy, grey felty hairs, and some longer, thin, upright hairs. The grey felty, line-shaped leaves are 4.5–6 cm (1.8–2.4 in) long and 3–5 mm (0.12–0.20 in) wide, with no or up to three teeth at the tip, a gradually narrowing base, the edges curled inside, giving the leaves the shape of a tube segment, alternately set and somewhat directed upwards and overlapping higher up the branches.
The globe-shaped flower heads of 3–3.5 cm (1.2–1.4 in) in diameter, without stalks, are grouped with one to four together. The common base of the flowers in the same head are low cone-shaped, about 1.3 cm (0.51 in) long and 1 cm (0.39 in) wide, and is subtended by pointy lance-shaped bracts of about 5 mm (0.20 in) long and 3 mm (0.12 in) wide, cartilaginous, tightly adpressed overlapping and set with short soft hairs with a tuft of long grey hairs at the tip.
The bracts subtending the individual flower are line-shaped 5–7 mm (0.20–0.28 in), embracing it at the base, with a regular row of hairs along the edge, a pointy tip and the outer surface softly hairy. The 4-merous perianth is about 2 cm long, straight in bud, tube-shaped, entirely deep yellow. The lower part, that remains merged when the flower, called tube, is open, is 4–5 mm (0.16–0.20 in) long, hairless and somewhat flattened sideways. The middle part (or claws), where the perianth is split lengthwise, is 2–3 mm (0.079–0.118 in) long, with the segment facing the center of the head is hairless, while the other segments have very short hairs. It is hardly differentiated from the upper part (or limbs), which enclosed the pollen presenter in the bud, and is roughly hairy on the outside, losing hairs with age. From the centre of the perianth emerges a straight, slender, yellow style of 1.75–2 cm (0.69–0.79 in) long. The thickened part at the tip of the style called pollen presenter is cylinder-shaped or narrowly elliptic, 1.5–2 mm (0.06-0.08 in) long, with the groove that functions as the stigma across the very tip. The ovary is subtended by four opaque, line- to awl-shaped scales of about 1 mm (0.039 in) long. The flowers of Leucospermum tomentosum are sweetly scented.
The subtribe Proteinae, to which the genus Leucospermum has been assigned, consistently has a basic chromosome number of twelve (2n=24).


=== Differences with other species ===
L. tomentosum is the only species assigned to the section Leucospermum that has (some) upright branches and an underground rootstock. It can be distinguished from the other Leucospermum species by the combination of small, cartilaginous, tightly overlapping bracts subtending the flower heads with short, soft hair on the outer surface, and leaves line-shaped, gully-shaped in cross section. It can be confused with L. rodolentum that develops a single trunk at its base, L. parile that also develops a single trunk at its base and in addition has pointed involucral bracts and L. hypophyllocarpodendron subsp. canaliculatum, which shares that it has many stems from the ground, but differs in having rounded involucral bracts.


== Taxonomy ==
The Saldanha pincushion was first observed by Carl Peter Thunberg in 1771 at Jan Besis Kraal (currently Milnerton), who described it in 1781, and named it Protea tomentosa. Richard Anthony Salisbury assigned the Saldanha pincushion to the genus Leucadendrum in a book by Joseph Knight published in 1809 titled On the cultivation of the plants belonging to the natural order of Proteeae. When he erected the segregate genus Leucospermum in 1810, Robert Brown called the species Leucospermum tomentosum. Otto Kuntze in 1891 placed the species in his genus Leucadendron. In 1844, Heinrich Wilhelm Buek created the name Leucospermum ecklonii without a proper description, which John Patrick Rourke considered synonymous.
L. tomentosum has been assigned to the section Leucospermum. The species name tomentosum means "woolly".


== Distribution, habitat and ecology ==
The Saldanha pincushion occurs widely scattered along sandveld within 5 km (3.1 mi) of the Atlantic coast of South Africa, where it can be found between Bok Bay (near Atlantis, Western Cape) in the south and the sandy flat between Vredenburg and Hopefield, Western Cape. Just one isolated population near Mud River farm is about 10 km (6.2 mi) miles from the coast. Within its distribution, the average annual precipitation is 250–375 in (6,400–9,500 mm), almost entire falling during the southern winter. It grows individually in a very open vegetation in bare sand among other shrubs such as Metalasia, Passerina and large clumps of Restionaceae.
The species regenerates reasonably well from the underground rootstock after a fire, which naturally occurs in the strandveld and sand fynbos every other decade or so.


== Conservation ==
The Saldanha pincushion is still relatively common but declining because parts of its habitat have been converted for agriculture, and the remainder has been invaded by alien Acacia species. It is therefore considered vulnerable.


== References ==


== External links ==
several photos

Saint-Jean-du-Falga (French pronunciation: [sɛ̃ ʒɑ̃ dy falɡa]; Languedocien: Sant Joan del Falgar) is a commune in the Ariège department in southwestern France.


== Population ==
Inhabitants are called Saint-Jeantais in French.


== See also ==
Communes of the Ariège department


== References ==

Mastacembelus cunningtoni is a species of fish in the family Mastacembelidae. It is endemic to the Lake Tanganyika basin, including the Lakes outflow, the Lukuga River as far as the Kisimba-Kilia rapids. It occurs in Burundi, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Tanzania, and Zambia. The specific name of this fish honours the British zoologist and anthropologist William Alfred Cunnington (1877-1958), leader of the expedition to Lake Tanganyika which collected the type.


== References ==

"The Eternal Kansas City" is a song by Northern Irish singer-songwriter Van Morrison. It was the key song on the 1977 album, A Period of Transition, and was his first single released since "Gloria", in 1974.
Biographer Howard DeWitt believes that the song makes the listener feel as if in a church, because of the "mystical choir", featured at the beginning of the song: "Excuse me do you know the way to Kansas City?". "Then an almost jump arrangement makes 'The Eternal Kansas City' an excellent rhythm and blues influenced song."
Johnny Rogan describes the song as "The only song on the album where there was evidence of Morrison's mysterious majesty, it blended the lily-white sound of Anita Kerr Singers with strong gospel overtones."


== Dr John on the song ==
Dr John, arranger and musician on A Period of Transition, describes the song as being:

The song that Van got the whole album hooked up around. It was a real deep thing for him to focus on. It goes from a real ethereal voice sound to a jazz introduction and then into a kind of chunky R&B.


== Personnel ==
Van Morrison: vocal
Ollie E. Brown: drums
Marlo Henderson: guitar
Jerry Jumonville: alto saxophone
Reggie McBride: bass
Joel Peskin: baritone saxophone
Mac Rebennack (Dr. John): piano
Mark Underwood: trumpet
Carlena Williams, Paulette Parker, Candy Nash, Toni McVey: backing vocals


== Notes ==


== References ==
Hinton, Brian (1997). Celtic Crossroads: The Art of Van Morrison, Sanctuary, ISBN 1-86074-169-X
DeWitt, Howard A. (1983). Van Morrison: The Mystic's Music, Horizon Books, ISBN 0-938840-02-9
Rogan, Johnny (2006). Van Morrison: No Surrender, London:Vintage Books ISBN 978-0-09-943183-1

Arthur "Chick" Johnson (28 October 1890 – 10 June 1946) was an English rugby league footballer who played in the 1900s, 1910s and 1920s. He played at representative level for Great Britain and England, and at club level for Widnes and Warrington, as a wing, prop, hooker, second-row, or loose forward. Arthur Johnson inherited his nickname of 'Chick' from his father, the rugby league footballer who played in the 1890s for Lancashire, and Widnes; Old 'Chick' (James "Jim") Johnson.


== Playing career ==


=== Club career ===
Johnson is a Widnes Hall Of Fame Inductee. Johnson made his début for Warrington on 3 February 1923, and made his final appearance for Warrington on 15 November 1924, making 40-appearances for Warrington in 1923–24 season.


=== International honours ===
On the 1914 Great Britain Lions tour of Australia and New Zealand, Widnes provided Jack O'Garra, from a well-known footballing family, and Arthur "Chick" Johnson a renowned as an exponent of the long-dead art of dribbling a rugby ball. He was a forward playing out of position on the wing. With 20 minutes left in the game he dribbled the ball from inside his own half, beating Australia's fullback, Howard Hallett, to score a try, in what became known as the Rorke's Drift Test.
Johnson, gained a cap for England at Widnes in 1914 against Wales, and four caps for Great Britain while at Widnes in 1914 against Australia, and New Zealand, and He was selected to go on the 1920 Great Britain Lions tour of Australasia and played against Australia (two matches).


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Statistics at rugby.widnes.tv
Hall Of Fame at rugby.widnes.tv

.pw is the country code top-level domain for the Republic of Palau.


== History ==
The country code top-level domain .pw was delegated to the Pacific island nation of Palau in 1997. It has since been redelegated a number of times. Directi, a group of technology businesses, obtained exclusive rights over .pw from EnCirca in 2004. From 25 March 2013, domains under the .pw TLD are available to the general public. Since then, it is sometimes marketed as a domain for professionals (professional web).
In July 2013 the registry announced that they had passed the 250,000 registration milestone within the first three months, after having 50,000 registered domains in the first three weeks.


== Issues ==
A few months after opening the registry to the general public, .pw became the target of spammers. 
Symantec released two reports in April and May 2013 claiming that domains under .pw TLD were a significant source of spam e-mail. Directi responded that it had zero tolerance for spam and would be deleting domains accused of violating its anti-abuse policy.
In 2016, the Anti-Phishing Working Group stated that the .cc, .com, .pw, and .tk domain names account for 75% of all malicious domain registrations.


== See also ==

Internet in Palau
List of Internet top-level domains § Country code top-level domains


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
IANA Delegation Record for .pw

The Pardo River is a river of Bahia and Minas Gerais states in eastern Brazil.


== See also ==
List of rivers of Bahia
List of rivers of Minas Gerais


== References ==
Brazilian Ministry of Transport (Bahia)
Brazilian Ministry of Transport (Minas Gerais)

The 1960 Iowa gubernatorial election was held on November 8, 1960. Republican nominee Norman A. Erbe defeated Democratic nominee Edward Joseph McManus with 52.14% of the vote.


== Primary elections ==
Primary elections were held on June 6, 1960.


=== Democratic primary ===


==== Candidates ====
Edward Joseph McManus, incumbent Lieutenant Governor
Harold Hughes, Chairman of the State Commerce Commission


==== Results ====


=== Republican primary ===


==== Candidates ====
Norman A. Erbe, Attorney General of Iowa
Jack Schroeder, State Senator
William H. Nicholas, former Lieutenant Governor


==== Results ====


== General election ==


=== Candidates ===
Norman A. Erbe, Republican
Edward Joseph McManus, Democratic


=== Results ===


== References ==

Bulbophyllum sulfureum is a species of orchid in the genus Bulbophyllum found in Madagascar.


== References ==

The Bulbophyllum-Checklist
The Internet Orchid Species Photo Encyclopedia


== External links ==
 Data related to Bulbophyllum sulfureum at Wikispecies

Shinsuke Ashida (芦田伸介, Ashida Shinsuke; 14 March 1914 – 10 January 1999) was a Japanese actor. He appeared in more than 90 films between 1952 and 1996.


== Selected filmography ==


=== Film ===
Gendai-jin (1952)
Mahiru no ankoku (1956)
An Actress (1956)
Underworld Beauty (1958)
Arashi no naka o tsuppashire (1958)
My Second Brother (1959)
Everything Goes Wrong (1960)
Kurenai no Kenju (1961), Kokuta
Red Angel (1966), Doctor Okabe
Red Handkerchief (1964)
Woman of the Lake (1966)
Shōsetsu Yoshida gakkō (1983), Ichirō Hatoyama
Haru no Kane (1985), Toichiro Miyake
Death of a Tea Master (1989), Toyotomi Hideyoshi
Shaso (1989)
Childhood Days (1990)
Ruten no umi (1990)


=== Television ===
Akō Rōshi (1964)
Shin Heike Monogatari (1972), Minamoto no Yorimasa
Genroku Taiheiki (1975), Tokugawa Tsunayoshi
The Women of Osaka Castle (1983), Shibata Katsuie
Musashibō Benkei (1986), Taira no Kiyomori
Nobunaga: King of Zipangu (1992), Saitō Dōsan


== References ==


== External links ==
Shinsuke Ashida at IMDb

Egypt has submitted films for consideration for the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film since 1958, when Youssef Chahine's Cairo Station became both the first African and the first Arab film to contend for the award. The award is handed out annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to a feature-length motion picture produced outside the United States that contains primarily non-English dialogue. The award was created for the 1956 Academy Awards, succeeding the non-competitive Honorary Academy Awards which were presented between 1947 and 1955 to the best foreign language films released in the United States.
Submissions between 1958 and 1960 were submitted under the name of the United Arab Republic, which was the formal name of Egypt at the time.
As of 2025, Egypt has submitted thirty-nine films, but has never been nominated.


== Submissions ==
The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences has invited the film industries of various countries to submit their best film for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film since 1956. The Foreign Language Film Award Committee oversees the process and reviews all the submitted films. Following this, they vote via secret ballot to determine the five nominees for the award.
All films submitted are primarily in Arabic.
Below is a list of the films that have been submitted by Egypt for review by the academy for the award by year.


== Controversies ==
The Egyptian Academy has been known in recent years for choosing topical films that are controversial at home. Coptic Christians launched an unsuccessful court case against 2004 submission I Love Cinema while dozens of Egyptian parliamentarians and a number of Muslim clerics similarly tried to ban The Yacoubian Building for depicting its depictions of Islamic fundamentalism and particularly homosexuality. 2002's Secret of the Young Girl a drama about teenage pregnancy, and 2003's Sleepless Nights, an examination of sex, divorce and relationships inside and outside of marriage also courted controversy among conservatives in Egypt.
In 2022, Egypt's Oscar Selection Committee announced a shortlist of five films: The Crime by Sherif Arafa, Full Moon by Hadi El Bagoury, Kira & El Gin by Marwan Hamed, 2 Talaat Harb by Magdy Ahmed Ali and Villa 19-B by Ahmad Abdalla. although Ahmed Ali withdrew his film prior to the vote. On 29 September, it was announced that a majority of the selection committee voted not to enter any of the shortlisted films.


== See also ==
List of Academy Award winners and nominees for Best International Feature Film
List of Academy Award-winning foreign language films


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
The Official Academy Awards Database
The Motion Picture Credits Database
IMDb Academy Awards Page

Acts 3 is the third chapter of the Acts of the Apostles in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. Early Christian tradition affirmed that Luke composed this book as well as the Gospel of Luke. Critical opinion on the tradition was evenly divided at the end of the 20th century. This chapter records the healing of a disabled person by the apostles Peter and John, and Peter's preaching at Solomon's Porch in the Second Temple.


== Text ==
The original text was written in Koine Greek. This chapter is divided into 26 verses.


=== Textual witnesses ===
Some early manuscripts containing the text of this chapter are:

Papyrus 91 (3rd century; extant verses 1–2)
Codex Vaticanus (325–350)
Codex Sinaiticus (330–360)
Codex Bezae (~400)
Codex Alexandrinus (400–440)
Codex Ephraemi Rescriptus (~450)
Codex Laudianus (~550)


=== Old Testament references ===
Acts 3:22–23: Deuteronomy 18:15,18,19 and Deuteronomy 7:37
Acts 3:25: Genesis 12:3, Genesis 22:18; Genesis 26:4; Genesis 28:14


== A lame man is healed (3:1–10) ==
This section gives one detailed account as an example of Luke's earlier note that "the 'apostolic band' has the power to work miracles" (Acts 2:43).


=== Verse 2 ===
And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful, to ask alms of them that entered into the temple;
The temple in Jerusalem had several gates, but it is not clear which one might have been called Beautiful. No ancient source mentions the Beautiful Gate, but the Nicanor Gate is probably the best guess. Traditionally the gate is identified with the Shushan Gate but, according to C. K. Barrett, that gate was not a suitable location for a beggar.


=== Verse 3 ===
who, seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked for alms.
In the King James Version, he asks for "an alms", reflecting the singular noun ἐλεημοσύνην (eleēmosunēn) in the Greek text.


=== Verse 4 ===
And fixing his eyes on him, with John, Peter said, "Look at us".
Alexander notes that from this point onwards. Peter leads the action, with John playing a "supporting" role. J. Rawson Lumby suggests that in looking intently at the man, he was able to perceive that he had faith to be healed.


=== Verse 6 ===
Then Peter said, "Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk".
The healing of the lame man in this chapter is the inspiration of some songs. One such example is the children's song "Silver and Gold Have I None".


=== Verse 7 ===
And he (Peter) took him by the right hand and raised him up; and immediately his feet and ankles were made strong.
Alexander argues that there is a play on words in the phrase "raised him up" (Greek: ηγειρεν αυτον, ēgeiren auton), which is "almost certainly deliberate", referring to both a physical elevation and a transition to "a new way of life".


== No other name (3:11–26) ==
Alexander draws these verses together as indicating the apostles' argument that "no other name" but Jesus' name can account for how this man was healed. They record Peter's second speech (after his speech in Acts 2), which addresses the same two questions as his first: 'What does this mean?' (cf. 2:12) and 'What shall we do?' (cf. 2:37). Acts 4:12 reiterates their contention that salvation comes through "no other name".


=== Verse 11 ===
As he (the man healed) clung to Peter and John, all the people hurried in amazement toward them in the portico called "Solomon’s Portico".
Clinging on to Peter and John may be interpreted as physically holding them, or it may signify that he joined himself to the Apostles more closely as a follower.


=== Verse 17 ===
 Yet now, brethren, I know that you did it in ignorance, as did also your rulers.
"Ignorance" is identified as a "mitigating factor" in the rejection of the Messiah, a mistake of both the crowd (whom Peter called 'brethren') and their rulers. Albert Barnes reasons that Peter "means to say that their offence was mitigated by the fact that they were ignorant that [Jesus] was the Messiah". He adds that the same thing was affirmed by Jesus as he died: "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do" (Luke 23:34).


=== Verses 22–23 ===
 ²²For Moses truly said to the fathers, 'The Lord your God will raise up for you a Prophet like me from your brethren. Him you shall hear in all things, whatever He says to you. ²³And it shall be that every soul who will not hear that Prophet shall be utterly destroyed from among the people.’
Cited from Deuteronomy 18:19, linked with Leviticus 23:29, the prophecy contains the term "prophet like [Moses]" as a "biblical typology".


=== Verse 26 ===
 To you first, God, having raised up His Servant Jesus, sent Him to bless you, in turning away every one of you from your iniquities.
"To you first": The offer of blessing from God is universal, but is first offered to the people of Israel; this is also Paul's message (cf. Romans 1:16).


== See also ==
Jerusalem
John the Apostle
Simon Peter
Solomon
Related Bible parts: Genesis 22, Genesis 26, Genesis 28, Deuteronomy 18, Acts 2


== References ==


== Sources ==
Alexander, Loveday (2007). "62. Acts". In Barton, John; Muddiman, John (eds.). The Oxford Bible Commentary (first (paperback) ed.). Oxford University Press. pp. 1028–1061. ISBN 978-0199277186. Retrieved February 6, 2019.
Coogan, Michael David (2007). Coogan, Michael David; Brettler, Marc Zvi; Newsom, Carol Ann; Perkins, Pheme (eds.). The New Oxford Annotated Bible with the Apocryphal/Deuterocanonical Books: New Revised Standard Version, Issue 48 (Augmented 3rd ed.). Oxford University Press. ISBN 9780195288810.


== External links ==
Acts 3 King James Bible - Wikisource
English Translation with Parallel Latin Vulgate
Online Bible at GospelHall.org (ESV, KJV, Darby, American Standard Version, Bible in Basic English)
Multiple bible versions at Bible Gateway (NKJV, NIV, NRSV etc.)

Yelkhovka (Russian: Елховка) is a rural locality (a village) in Niginskoye Rural Settlement, Nikolsky District, Vologda Oblast, Russia. The population was 40 as of 2002.


== Geography ==
Yelkhovka is located 39 km northwest of Nikolsk (the district's administrative centre) by road. Krasavino is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

Subbotovo (Russian: Субботово) is a rural locality (a village) in Trubchevsky District, Bryansk Oblast, Russia. The population was 21 as of 2010. There is 1 street.


== Geography ==
Subbotovo is located 17 km northeast of Trubchevsk (the district's administrative centre) by road. Radutino is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

Ana Pešić (Serbian Cyrillic: Ана Пешић; born 1987) is a politician in Serbia. She has served in the National Assembly of Serbia since 2020 as a member of the Serbian Progressive Party.


== Private career ==
Pešić was born in Ćićevac, in what was then the Socialist Republic of Serbia in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. She has a degree in philology, focusing on English language and literature.


== Politician ==


=== Municipal politics ===
Pešić received the fifth position on the Progressive Party's electoral list for the Ćićevac municipal assembly in the 2016 Serbian local elections and was elected when the list won eight out of twenty-five mandates. This election was won by a local political alliance, and the Progressives served in opposition. She was promoted to the fourth position on the party's list in the 2020 local elections and was re-elected when the list won a plurality victory with eleven mandates.


=== Member of the National Assembly ===
Pešić received the 140th position on the Progressive Party's Aleksandar Vučić — For Our Children list in the 2020 Serbian parliamentary election and was elected when the list won a landslide majority with 188 out of 250 mandates. She is now a member of the assembly's European integration committee; a deputy member of the foreign affairs committee and the committee on education, science, technological development, and the information society; the leader of Serbia's parliamentary friendship group with Sierra Leone; and a member of the parliamentary friendship groups with China, Germany, Greece, Japan, Malta, Norway, Russia, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, and the United States of America.


== References ==

Lowry Solutions is an American software technology company. It provides RFID, barcode and wireless networking services and equipment as well as automatic label applicators and supplies. Headquartered in Brighton, Michigan, it is partnered with companies such as Zebra Technologies, Honeywell, Motion Computing, Panasonic and  Paragon Labeling.


== History ==
Richard Lowry founded Lowry & Associates in 1974. The original company served as a manufacturers representatives firm that sold Intel products, holding exclusive regional rights. Some of the items in its portfolio included: single board computers, memory cards, power supplies, analog to digital I/O and Intel development systems.
Spartan Stores in Grand Rapids, MI, was Lowry's first bar code sale.At the time, Lowry & Associates was reselling Printronix printers.
Between the years 1994 and 1996, Lowry grew from a regional company to national sales coverage by acquiring 4 regional VAR companies; two of those VAR Company's also had label conversion manufacturing capability. In 1996, Lowry consolidated all manufacturing operations into their 40,000 square foot plant in White Bear Lake, Minnesota.
In 1996, Lowry began manufacturing a line of label applicators and automated print & apply systems, which is currently under the Paragon Brand name. Lowry offered its customers a choice between Zebra, Sato and Datamax print engines. 
In January 2014, Lowry Computers became Lowry Solutions.
In May 2015, Lowry Solutions was awarded the AIT-V Contract. It was one of three companies provided automatic identification technology data communications, software, hardware, documentation and associated services under a $181 million indefinite-delivery/indefinite-quantity contract.


== References ==

Corn Islands (Spanish: Islas del Maíz) is a municipality of the South Caribbean Coast Autonomous Region of Nicaragua. It is located approximately 70 km (43 mi) east of the Caribbean mainland. The municipality consists of two islands: Big Corn Island (Isla Grande del Maíz) and Little Corn Island (Isla Pequeña del Maíz). The islands are known for their Afro-Caribbean cultural heritage, coral reef ecosystems and tourism-based economy.


== History ==

According to Edward Conzemius, a French ethnologist from Luxembourg, in 1929 he stated in his article Les Îles Corn du Nicaragua (The Corn Islands of Nicaragua), that the first inhabitants of Corn Island were the Indigenous Kukras, who were exterminated by the also Indigenous Miskitos in alliance with the English buccaneers.

The island was used to resupply firewood and water, repair their ships, and support their fishing activities. Puritan settlers of British origin arrived on the island in the mid-18th century, bringing with them their slaves of African origin. It is known that they came from Jamaica, settling in British Honduras (now Belize) until they reached the Atlantic coast of Nicaragua.
The first settlers preferred to inhabit the southeastern part of the island. This was for several reasons: Quinn Hill's height offered a panoramic view of the sea, from which they could see the arrival of pirate ships as they approached "Insurance Harbor", a strategic port on the island that provided facilities for anchoring and unloading boats. This port, "Insurance Harbour", also has historical importance since Colonel Alexander McDonald, superintendent of British Honduras (today Belize), landed on August 27, 1841.

This superintendent was the one who ordered to call the enslaved laborers, at the point called South West Bay, to declare them free from slavery, in the name of Queen Victoria of Great Britain and King Robert Charles Frederic of Mosquitia.
After the English colonists established themselves in the Corn Islands, a process of acculturation began. Most of the settlers came to these Islands as adventurers and explorers in search of fortunes and riches. They settled permanently and interacted with the enslaved laborers. A product of this relationship is the Creole descent of the Corn Islands. Over time, these descendants gradually assimilated and adapted the customs and traditions of English culture. Slavery was abolished on the Corn Islands in 1843. 
In 1852, Reverend Edward Kelly from British Honduras founded the Ebenezer Baptist Church and School, the first Christian institution built on the islands. Ebenezer Baptist was the only church in the Corn Islands until 1901, when the Saint James Episcopal Church of Corn Island was founded.
The Corn Islands were also part of the British protectorate of the Kingdom of Mosquitia, from 1740 to 1860. At some point, the islands were frequented by Caribbean pirates. In 1894, the Nicaraguan government occupied the area militarily. The islands were handed over to the United States for a 99-year lease under the Bryan-Chamorro Treaty of August 5, 1914. Under the terms of that treaty, they were subject to U.S. law, but Nicaraguan sovereignty was maintained.
In 1940, Corn Island was elevated to a municipality in the Zelaya Region (as the region was known at the time) by presidential decree. 
The United States maintained the right to the actual or potential use of the islands until April 25, 1971, the date on which the agreement was officially canceled with the repeal of the Chamorro-Bryan treaty, under the presidency of Anastasio Somoza Debayle, from July 14, 1970.
Before that event, the municipality had a governor rather than a mayor, as it does now. The mayors were previously elected in a community assembly, where, in addition to the highest municipal representative, the judge and secretary were also elected. The first popular vote elections in which all the people participated were at the beginning of the 20th century.


== Geography ==

Big Corn Island covers approximately 10 square kilometers, while Little Corn Island covers approximately 3 square kilometers. The terrain is generally low-lying with gentle hills, the highest point being Mount Pleasant on Big Corn Island, the islands are surrounded by coral reefs and seagrass beds, forming part of the wider Caribbean marine ecosystem. 


=== Climate ===
The climate is tropical maritime, with a rainy season typically from May to November and a drier season from December to April. The islands are occasionally affected by tropical storms and hurricanes originating in the Caribbean Sea.


=== Environment and conservation ===
The surrounding marine areas have been recognized for their ecological importance due to coral reefs, lobster fisheries, and a sea turtle nesting habitat. Conservation initiatives have been implemented to protect marine biodiversity and regulate fishing practices.


== Demographics and culture ==
The municipality has a population of approximately 7,912 habitants, distributed between Big Corn Island and Little Corn Island.
English-based Creole and Spanish are widely spoken. The islands historically developed a strong English-speaking Afro-Caribbean cultural identity, influenced by British and Jamaican migration during the 19th century.
Cultural traditions reflect Afro-Caribbean heritage, including music, cuisine, and religious practices. Seafood, coconut-based dishes, and crab soup are prominent in local gastronomy.


== Subdivisions ==
The municipality of Corn Island is subdivided into six neighborhoods (barrios), five of which are on Great Corn Island, while Little Corn Island constitutes the sixth Neighborhood:


== Transportation ==

Great Corn Island has a paved road about 12 kilometres (7.5 mi) long, which runs the island's length. Automobiles, motorbikes, and bicycles are the primary means of transport on the island. Most cars are used as taxis and cost 20 Cordobas for each ride of an adult person. The only other public transportation option is the bus that circles the island clockwise and costs ten cordobas.
Little Corn Island is accessible by fast boats, usually three or four times per day depending on weather from Great Corn Island, and by a small cargo ship from the port at Southwest Bay on Great Corn Island (World Port Index No. 9775). Little Corn Island has no motor vehicles. Due to its small size, all transport on the island is done on foot.


=== Air ===
Great Corn Island can be reached by a La Costeña flight from Managua or Bluefields, which arrive twice a day at Corn Island Airport.


=== Sea ===
Great Corn Island can be reached by a ferry or a small speedboat from the city of Bluefields that leaves from there every Wednesday and Saturday to the island.


== Economy and tourism ==

Throughout most of the 20th century, the economy revolved around coconut production. During the 1960s and 1970s, commercial fishing as well as lobster and shrimp fishing became the primary industry. However, the recent growth in tourism throughout the region has also affected the islands. Tourism on the islands has grown considerably, with their many surrounding coral reefs making them a popular destination for scuba diving and snorkeling.
Barracudas, nurse sharks, hammerhead sharks, green sea turtles, and spotted eagle rays are among the marine life that can be seen around the islands.


== Sports ==
Baseball is a popular sport in the Corn Islands. The main stadium on the island is the Karen Tucker Baseball Stadium.
Volleyball and Football are also Sports that many islanders play.


== Gastronomy ==
The cuisine of Corn Island is varied; most of the dishes are seafood- and boco-based.
Corn Island's typical dishes include crab soup, rondon, fried fish, and rice with shrimp.


== Notable people ==
Cheslor Cuthbert, professional baseball player for the Chicago White Sox


== Gallery ==


== See also ==

List of lighthouses in Nicaragua


== References ==


== External links ==

RightSide Guide: The survival guide to the Caribbean coast of Nicaragua
BigCornIsland.com Tourism on the Corn Islands
2007 trip report
Bluefields and Corn Island, a history written by Maureen Tweedy
LittleCornIsland.net About Little Corn Island
Corn Island Guidee

The Gwerz Santes Enori is a Breton gwerz, a type of folk song that combines literary with musical characteristics. The song, which is preserved in many versions and fragments, tells a story that resembles a saint's life, a 14th-century version of the hagiography of the Breton saint Budoc. Its general theme has been called that of "the girl with a golden breast", as told in stories throughout the Celtic world and surviving in oral form into the 20th century.


== Summary ==
The poem's story concerns the youngest of a king's three daughters (the king of Brest, or Brittany, or Spain, depending on the version), who sacrifices herself when her father is bitten by a snake. Only a virgin breast can save him, and Enori, the youngest, neglected daughter, offers herself up after her two sisters refuse. When she goes to help him a snake jumps onto one of her breasts, and her father cuts off the breast, after which he is miraculously cured (Mary-Ann Constantine identifies this as a "Celtic theme"); the daughter is rewarded by an angel who brings her a golden breast, and she gets a husband as well. Her mother-in-law, however, manages to convince her son that his wife is unfaithful; the punishment for adultery is death, and the king condemns the young woman to death, without knowing who she is, but then finds out that it is his daughter, now pregnant. Instead of putting her to death, he allows her to be put in a barrel and left at sea. After her husband regrets the matter, he searches for her and finds her and her child, in Ireland, now venerated by congregations of sailors; they are happily reunited.


== Theme and associated texts ==
The gwerz's theme is known as "the girl with a golden breast", and it was widespread across the Celtic world; a version of the story was still being sung in Scotland in the late 20th century, while a version with Gawain as the male protagonist was told in 19th-century Scotland. Constantine adds that the same story is found in a Welsh Triad, a Gaelic folk tale from Scotland, and a French medieval romance. A study of that theme was published in 1985 by Gwennole Le Menn (La femme au sein d'or, Skol-Dastum), which notes that it is related to the legend of Saint Gwen, the saint "of the three breasts". The theme is also found in a number of French lais, including the Lai du cor and the Lai du Mantel Mantaillé. It appears in the Livre de Caradoc, a biography of Caradoc which found its way into the 15th-century Perceval, the Story of the Grail.
In the hagiography of Saint Budoc, the female protagonist is called Azenor, who is identified with Saint Senara. Scholars confirm that the two stories must be closely related, to the point that neither one can be called the original version of the other.


== Editions and studies ==
Le Menn, Gwennole. La Femme au sein d'or—des chants populaires bretons aux legendes celtiques. Dastum/Skol., "analyses extant versions of the gwerz of Sainte Enori whose themes are traced further in both Celtic and international mythology".
The editors of Kan e Breizh list 17 different versions recorded in 39 "occurrences", including some with music, like the version published by Maurice Duhamel in Musiques bretonnes (1913, p. 20)


== References ==


=== Notes ===


=== Bibliography ===
Constantine, Mary-Ann (1996). Breton Ballads. Aberystwyth: Cambrian Medieval Celtic Studies.
Monaghan, Patricia (2014). The Encyclopedia of Celtic Mythology and Folklore. Infobase. ISBN 9781438110370.

The PhilWeb Corporation is a Philippine internet company involved in the gambling industry. It has operated the e-Games casino outlets.
PhilWeb was founded by Roberto Ongpin and incorporated on August 20, 1969, as South Seas Oil and Mineral Exploration Co. Inc. It was initially involved in mining and resource exploration. The name of the company changed to South Seas Natural Resources through an authorization by stockholders on March 29, 1984, a move approved by the Security Exchange Commission.
South Seas Natural Resources' name was changed to PhilWeb.Com, Inc. on January 18, 2000, becoming an internet company. On the same date the mining claims and assets of the company was transferred to its subsidiary, All-Acacia Resources, Inc. Its name was then again changed on May 31, 2002, to its present name, PhilWeb Corporation by the company's stockholders.
In 2019, PhilWeb signed a ₱292-million share purchase and cooperation agreement with Palmary Corporation to jointly develop their electronic bingo businesses.
In 2020, PhilWeb announced that Brian K. Ng will replace Dennis O. Valdes as president of the company effective February 1.


== References ==

Wegener may refer to:


== Astronomy ==
29227 Wegener, a main-belt asteroid
Wegener (lunar crater)
Wegener (Martian crater)


== Places ==
Wegener Range, an Antarctic mountain range
Mount Wegener, an Antarctic mountain in the Read Mountains in the Shackleton Range
Wegener Canyon, an undersea canyon
Wegener Halvo Formation, a geologic formation in Greenland


== Businesses ==
Wegener (company), a Dutch media conglomerate
Alfred Wegener Institute for Polar and Marine Research


== Medicine ==
Wegener's granulomatosis, now known as granulomatosis with polyangiitis


== People ==
Alfred Wegener (1880–1930), German geologist who originated the theory of continental drift
Kapitänleutnant Bernhard Wegener, commander of German submarine U-27, killed in one of the two Baralong incidents in 1915
Bertha Frensel Wegener (1874–1953), Dutch composer and music educator
Bobby Wegener, American lawyer and politician from Oklahoma
Manuela (singer) (1943–2001), German singer Doris Inge Wegener
Einar Mogens Wegener (1882–1931), birth name of transsexual pioneer Lili Elbe
Emmy Wegener (1901–1973), Dutch violinist, pianist, poet and composer
Frederico or Federico Wegener, aliases of Eduard Roschmann (1908–1977), Nazi SS officer known as the "Butcher of Riga"
Friedrich Wegener (1907–1990), Nazi German pathologist
Gerda Wegener (1886–1940), Danish illustrator
Ingo Wegener (1950–2008), German computer scientist
Kurt Wegener (1878–1964), German polar explorer and meteorologist, brother of Alfred
Mike Wegener (born 1946), American baseball pitcher
Myrton O. Wegener (1917–1991), American farmer, businessman, and politician
Otto Wegener (1849–1924), French portrait photographer
Otto Wegener (1881–1938), Danish sports shooter
Paul Wegener (1874–1948), German actor and film director
Paul Wegener (Nazi) (1908–1993), German Nazi Party official
Stephen T. Wegener (born 1952), American psychologist
Ulrich Wegener (1929–2017), German police officer
Wilhelm Wegener (1895–1944), German World War II general
Wolfgang Wegener (1875–1956), German admiral and naval historian


== See also ==
Wegner

The Caucasian squirrel (Sciurus anomalus) or Persian squirrel is a tree squirrel in the genus Sciurus found in temperate broadleaf and mixed forests in south-western Asia.
The species is traditionally said to have first been described in 1778 by Johann Friedrich Gmelin in the 13th edition of Systema Naturae, and named Sciurus anomalus. However, this work was actually published in 1788, so the true first description was made by Johann Anton Güldenstädt in 1785. Gmelin made reference to this in the 1788 work, citing Güldenstädt as the author.


== Taxonomy and evolution ==
Various positions exist on the taxonomy of the Caucasian squirrel. A 2009 evaluation of the taxonomy of the Sciurus genus found it to not be closely related to the other Old World species, the red squirrel and its immediate offshoots, and to be closer to New World species. A 2020 study on the taxonomy of Sciurinae instead placed the Old World squirrels within a single genus distinct from the New World species.
Sciurus anomalus emerges in the fossil record in the Early Pleistocene, becoming common in Turkey by the Middle Paleolithic and in Lebanon by the Late Paleolithic. It spread southward into the Levant during the Last Interglacial but retreated northward in the Late Pleistocene, leaving relic populations in Israel that persist to the present. 


== Description ==
Caucasian squirrels are small tree squirrels, with a total length of 32 to 36 cm (13 to 14 in), including the 13 to 18 cm (5.1 to 7.1 in) tail, and weighing 250 to 410 g (8.8 to 14.5 oz). The color of the upper body fur ranges from greyish brown to pale grey, depending on the subspecies, while that of the underparts is rusty brown to yellowish, and that of the tail is yellow brown to deep red. The claws are relatively short, compared with those of other tree squirrels, and females have either eight or ten teats.
Samuel Griswold Goodrich described the Caucasian squirrel in 1885 as "Its color is grayish-brown above, and yellowish-brown below".


== Distribution and habitat ==
Caucasian squirrels are native to south-western Asia, where they are found from Turkey, and the islands of Gökçeada and Lesbos in the west, Iran in the southeast, and as far as Israel and Jordan in the south. It is one of only two species of the genus Sciurus to be found on Mediterranean islands, and, although Eurasian red squirrels have been recently introduced to some areas, is the only species of Sciurus native to the wider region.
The species mainly lives in mixed and deciduous forests, including ones dominated by oak, pine, and pistachio. They can also be encountered in coniferous forests, rocky areas, and chestnut, walnut, almond, and olive orchards. They are found up to altitudes of 2,000 metres (6,600 ft).
Three subspecies are recognised:

S. a. anomalus - Lesbos, Turkey and Transcaucasia. Belly is chestnut gray-buff.
S. a. pallescens - Iraq and the Zagros Mountains and Fars District in Iran. Belly is pale gray.
S. a. syriacus - Lebanon, Syria, Israel, and Jordan. Belly is yellow to gold.


== Biology and behavior ==

The squirrels are diurnal and solitary, although temporary groups may forage where food is plentiful.  Their diet includes nuts, seeds, tree shoots, and buds, with the seeds of oak and pine being particularly favored. Like many other squirrels, they cache their food within tree cavities or loose soil, with some larders containing up to 6 kg (13 lb) of seeds.

They live in trees, where they make their dens, but frequently forage on the ground, and are considered less arboreal than Eurasian red squirrels. They commonly nest in tree hollows lined with moss and leaves, and located 5 to 14 m (16 to 46 ft) above the ground, but nests are also sometimes found under rocks or tree roots. Their alarm call is high-pitched, and said to resemble the call of the European green woodpecker, and they mark their territories with urine and dung.
Breeding occurs throughout the year, but is more common in spring or autumn. Litters range from two to seven, with three or four being typical, and the young are fully mature by five or six months of age.


== Conservation ==
A survey in 2008 found that the species remained abundant within Turkey, however declines are noted in population within the Levant region. The guides for a survey in 1993 in Israel stated that they considered the species to be nearly extinct within the area studied. Whilst the Caucasian squirrel is threatened by poaching and deforestation, the declines recorded are not sufficient to qualify them as anything other than "Least Concern" by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Hunting of the species is banned by the Central Hunting Commission, and the Caucasian squirrel is protected by the Bern Convention and the EU Habitats Directive.


== Relationship with humans ==
Caucasian squirrels are hunted both as food and for their pelts in most of their range. They are sometimes considered a pest animal in nut and fruit orchards.


== References ==


== External links ==

Şehzadebaşı is a quarter (Turkish: semt) of the Fatih district in the European part of Istanbul. Although its exact boundaries cannot be drawn as it is a quarter, administratively it covers part of the mahalle of Kemalpaşa and Kalenderhane. It is a busy centre due to its proximity to the quarter of Saraçhane, Vezneciler and Unkapanı.


== Landmarks ==
It hosts the Şehzade Mosque, one of the first works of Mimar Sinan.


== Transportation ==
The quarter is served by the M2 metro line, which came into service in March 2014, with a station at Vezneciler.

Monroe County is a county located on the eastern border of the U.S. state of Ohio, across the Ohio River from West Virginia. As of the 2020 census, the population was 13,385, making it the second-least populous county in Ohio. Its county seat is Woodsfield. The county was created in 1813 and later organized in 1815.


== History ==

Monroe County was formed on January 28, 1813, from portions of Belmont, Guernsey and Washington counties. It was named after James Monroe, the U.S. Secretary of State when the county was formed, and later fifth President of the United States. When organized, the county's eastern border was with the state of Virginia. This portion of the state seceded from Virginia during the American Civil War, being admitted to the Union as the state of West Virginia. The largely rural county reached its peak of population in the 19th century, before urbanization drew people into and near cities for work and other opportunities. It is still a center of Amish population and farms.
In 1891, West Virginia's Sistersville Field was discovered to extend into Monroe County. By 1901, 300 wells near Woodsfield, Ohio, were producing 55,000 barrels of oil a month.
On or about December 20, 2011, ExxonMobil, a New Jersey petroleum company, via its subsidiary XTO Energy, acquired 20,056 acres of Monroe County Utica Shale gas leases from Beck Energy.


== Geography ==
According to the United States Census Bureau, the county has a total area of 457 square miles (1,180 km2), of which 456 square miles (1,180 km2) is land and 1.7 square miles (4.4 km2) (0.4%) is water. It is bordered by the Ohio River to the east. The terrain is hilly in this area, with waterways cutting through some hills of the Appalachian Plateau, which extends from Lake Erie to the Ohio River, which flows southwest to the south of this county.


=== Adjacent counties ===
Belmont County (north)
Marshall County, West Virginia (northeast)
Wetzel County, West Virginia (east)
Tyler County, West Virginia (southeast)
Washington County (south)
Noble County (west)


=== National protected area ===
Wayne National Forest (part)


== Demographics ==


=== 2020 census ===
As of the 2020 census, the county had a population of 13,385. The median age was 47.4 years. 20.1% of residents were under the age of 18 and 24.7% of residents were 65 years of age or older. For every 100 females there were 102.3 males, and for every 100 females age 18 and over there were 100.5 males.
The racial makeup of the county was 96.7% White, 0.1% Black or African American, 0.1% American Indian and Alaska Native, 0.2% Asian, <0.1% Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander, 0.2% from some other race, and 2.7% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino residents of any race comprised 0.5% of the population.
1.3% of residents lived in urban areas, while 98.7% lived in rural areas.
There were 5,747 households in the county, of which 24.7% had children under the age of 18 living in them. Of all households, 50.8% were married-couple households, 20.4% were households with a male householder and no spouse or partner present, and 22.7% were households with a female householder and no spouse or partner present. About 30.3% of all households were made up of individuals and 15.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.
There were 7,133 housing units, of which 19.4% were vacant. Among occupied housing units, 77.5% were owner-occupied and 22.5% were renter-occupied. The homeowner vacancy rate was 1.8% and the rental vacancy rate was 13.5%.


=== Racial and ethnic composition ===


=== 2010 census ===
As of the 2010 United States census, there were 14,642 people, 6,065 households, and 4,183 families living in the county. The population density was 32.1 inhabitants per square mile (12.4/km2). There were 7,567 housing units at an average density of 16.6 units per square mile (6.4 units/km2). The racial makeup of the county was 98.1% white, 0.4% black or African American, 0.1% Asian, 0.1% American Indian, 0.1% from other races, and 1.2% from two or more races. Those of Hispanic or Latino origin made up 0.4% of the population. In terms of ancestry, 34.8% were German, 14.5% were Irish, 10.6% were English, and 9.6% were American.
Of the 6,065 households, 27.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 56.0% were married couples living together, 8.6% had a female householder with no husband present, 31.0% were non-families, and 27.3% of all households were made up of individuals. The average household size was 2.39 and the average family size was 2.87. The median age was 44.7 years.
The median income for a household in the county was $37,030 and the median income for a family was $43,261. Males had a median income of $39,261 versus $24,922 for females. The per capita income for the county was $18,738. About 12.3% of families and 17.3% of the population were below the poverty line, including 26.7% of those under age 18 and 12.3% of those age 65 or over.


=== 2000 census ===
As of the census of 2000, there were 15,180 people, 6,021 households, and 4,413 families living in the county. The population density was 33 people per square mile (13 people/km2). There were 7,212 housing units at an average density of 16 units per square mile (6.2/km2). The racial makeup of the county was 98.72% White, 0.26% Black or African American, 0.15% Native American, 0.07% Asian, 0.01% Pacific Islander, 0.11% from other races, and 0.67% from two or more races. 0.41% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There were 6,021 households, out of which 29.50% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 61.70% were married couples living together, 8.10% had a female householder with no husband present, and 26.70% were non-families. 24.00% of all households were made up of individuals, and 11.50% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.50 and the average family size was 2.96.
In the county, the population was spread out, with 23.60% under the age of 18, 7.10% from 18 to 24, 25.90% from 25 to 44, 27.20% from 45 to 64, and 16.30% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 41 years. For every 100 females there were 97.50 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 96.10 males.
The median income for a household in the county was $30,467, and the median income for a family was $36,297. Males had a median income of $33,308 versus $19,628 for females. The per capita income for the county was $15,096. About 11.00% of families and 13.90% of the population were below the poverty line, including 18.30% of those under age 18 and 11.40% of those age 65 or over.


== Politics ==

As was typical for Appalachian counties, Monroe County voted Democratic in most elections – all but 7 times from 1856 until 2008. In 2012, it voted Republican for the first time since 1972. In 2016, it took a sharp turn to the right, voting for Donald Trump by a large margin. In the 2014 gubernatorial election, Monroe was one of two counties to vote for Democrat Ed FitzGerald over Republican John Kasich (along with Athens County). However, in 2018 it voted for Republican Mike DeWine over Democrat Richard Cordray.


== Government ==

Monroe County has three County Commissioners who oversee the various County departments, similar to 85 of the other 88 Ohio counties. Current Commissioners are: Mick Schumacher (R), Bill Bolon (R), and Diane Burkhart (R).
Monroe County is served by the Monroe County District Library from its administrative offices in Woodsfield, Ohio; it also offers a bookmobile service.
In 2005, the library loaned more than 141,000 items to its 6,000 cardholders. Total holding are over 64,000 volumes with over 140 periodical subscriptions. This library is a member of the SOLO Regional Library System.


== Education ==
Monroe County contains the following schools through the Switzerland of Ohio Local School District:

Elementary Schools
Beallsville Elementary School in Beallsville, Ohio
River Elementary School in Hannibal, Ohio
Skyvue Elementary School in Graysville, Ohio
Woodsfield Elementary School in Woodsfield, Ohio
St. Sylvester Central in Woodsfield, Ohio
High Schools
Monroe Central High School in Woodsfield, Ohio
River High School in Hannibal, Ohio
Beallsville High School in Beallsville, Ohio (closed in 2025)
Career Center
Swiss Hills Career Center in Woodsfield, Ohio


== Transportation ==


=== Airports ===
The Monroe County Airport is located one nautical mile (1.2 mi; 1.9 km) north of Woodsfield's central business district.


=== Major highways ===


== Communities ==


=== Villages ===


=== Townships ===


=== Census-designated places ===
Hannibal
Sardis


=== Unincorporated communities ===
Cameron
Duffy
Fly
Laings
Malaga
Rinard Mills
Sardis
Sycamore Valley


=== Ghost town ===
Quarry


== Notable people ==
Philip Allen, member of the Wisconsin State Assembly
William C. Chynoweth, member of the Illinois House of Representatives
Sam V. Stewart, Montana Supreme Court Justice and the sixth Governor of Montana


== See also ==
National Register of Historic Places listings in Monroe County, Ohio
Petroleum industry in Ohio


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Thomas William Lewis, History of Southeastern Ohio and the Muskingum Valley, 1788-1928. In Three Volumes. Chicago: S.J. Clarke Publishing Co., 1928.


== External links ==
Monroe County Economic Development and Tourism
Monroe County Public Library website

Gowar East is a locality in the Shire of Loddon and Shire of Northern Grampians, Victoria, Australia. At the 2021 census, Gowar East had a population of 23. 


== History ==
Gowar East is located on the lands of the Dja Dja Wurrung people.
During the 1890s, wheat and oats were the principal crops grown in the Gowar East district, with Algerian and potato oats favoured over the later-maturing Tartarian variety. In June 1890, the Berrimal branch of the Victorian Farmers' Progressive Association, based in the area, advocated for a railway line from Wedderburn to St Arnaud via Conooer Bridge. Harvests in the mid-1890s were poor, with low yields and grain quality, and farmers struggled to cover their expenses. Rabbits and foxes were also causing problems in the district, with foxes killing poultry and rabbits being targeted through poisoning and trapping.


== References ==

The White Monuments of Vladimir and Suzdal in Vladimir Oblast, Russia, have been designated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The patrimony embraces eight medieval limestone monuments of Zalesye from the late 12th and early 13th centuries. They include Russian Orthodox churches and a monastery, as well as a castle and gate. It is a serial property, which means it is made up of multiple monuments.


== Gallery ==


== References ==

White House Gender Policy Council was a department within the White House Office for the advancement of gender equity and equality in both domestic and foreign policy development and implementation. It was established upon the inauguration of the Biden administration and was initially co-chaired by Jennifer Klein and Julissa Reynoso Pantaleón.


== Formation ==
The council was a successor body to the White House Council on Women and Girls (2009-2017), which was established under the Obama administration but dissolved under the Trump administration, as well as the earlier White House Office for Women's Initiatives and Outreach (1995-2001), established under the Clinton administration but dissolved under the George W. Bush administration.
In Executive Order 14020, President Joe Biden said:

The Council shall work across executive departments and agencies (agencies) to advance gender equity and equality and provide a coordinated Federal response on issues that have a distinct impact on gender equity and equality.  The Council shall also work with each agency to ensure that agency operations are conducted in a manner that promotes gender equity and equality, to the extent permitted by law.


== Accomplishments ==

The council was tasked with the creation and implementation of the Biden administration's National Strategy on Gender Equity and Equality. It advocated for lower childcare payments and better paid leave for families, and enforcing federal guidance that require hospitals to treat miscarriage patients in emergency rooms (regardless of an individual state's abortion laws). 
The council launched a $100 million Initiative on Women's Health Research. After Roe v. Wade was overturned, revoking the constitutional right to abortion, the council worked to promote contraception access. It also worked to expand preventative measures for sexual assault, and safety and support measures for survivors.
The office helped draft another Biden executive order that established an independent review commission on military sexual assault, which led to decision-making about military sexual assault cases to shift from unit commanders to specialized independent military prosecutors.
The office also organized the inaugural "Girls Leading Change" awards, which were held at the White House on October 11, 2023 on the International Day of the Girl Child.


== Dissolution ==
On his first day of his second term in office, President Donald Trump signed Executive Order 14168, in which he stated:

Efforts to eradicate the biological reality of sex fundamentally attack women by depriving them of their dignity, safety, and well-being.  The erasure of sex in language and policy has a corrosive impact not just on women but on the validity of the entire American system.  Basing Federal policy on truth is critical to scientific inquiry, public safety, morale, and trust in government itself.
The order rescinded the Biden-era Executive Order 14020, among others.


== Personnel ==

Lauren Supina (1995-2001, as Director of the White House Office for Women's Initiatives and Outreach)
Valerie Jarrett (2009-2017, as Director of the White House Council on Women and Girls)
Julissa Reynoso Pantaleón (2021-2022, as Director of the White House Gender Policy Council)
Jennifer Klein (2022-2025)


== Further reading ==
Mackinnon, Amy & Weber, Anna (October 22, 2021). "Jennifer Klein on the U.S.'s 'First Ever' National Gender Strategy". ForeignPolicy.com. Washington, DC: Foreign Policy-Graham Holdings. Retrieved July 18, 2024.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link) An in-depth article important regarding benchmarking the intended directions of the Council. Available only by subscription.
"Jennifer Klein". USGLC.org. Washington, DC: United States Global Leadership Coalition. July 18, 2024. Retrieved July 18, 2024.
Mucha, Sarah (January 19, 2021). "Biden Announces Creation of White House Gender Policy Council". CNN.com. Retrieved July 18, 2024.
"President-elect Joe Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris Announce Co-Chairs of the White House Gender Policy Council". BuildBackBetter.gov. January 19, 2021. Archived from the original on January 19, 2021. Retrieved July 18, 2024.
McPherson, Anne; Degnan Kambou, Sarah (January 19, 2021). "ICRW Board Member Jennifer Klein to Co-Chair White House Gender Policy Council". ICRW.org. Washington, DC: International Center for Research on Women. Retrieved July 18, 2024.
Tani, Max & Thompson, Alex (May 3, 2022). "The Biden Crew Prepping for a Post-Roe World". Politico.com. Retrieved July 18, 2024.{{cite web}}:  CS1 maint: multiple names: authors list (link)


== See also ==
White House Council on Women and Girls


== References ==

Jorge Loring y Oyarzábal, 1st Marquis of Casa Loring (20 August 1822 – 11 February 1901) was a Spanish noble, politician and businessman. His grandson Jorge Loring Martinez created the company Talleres Loring, an aircraft manufacturer that produced important aircraft such as the Loring R-1, the Loring R-2 or the Loring R-3.


== Biography ==
Born on August 20, 1822 in Málaga, Spain, Jorge was the son of George Loring of Hingham, Massachusetts, and Maria Del Rosario Oyarzabal, of Cádiz. He was a fourth great grandson of New England immigrant Deacon Thomas Loring.


=== Education and citizenship ===
Like his brothers, he was educated in the United States, where he studied engineering at Harvard. He held citizenship in the United States and in Spain.


=== Marriage and family ===

In 1850 he married Amalia Heredia Livermore of Málaga, herself a daughter of Manuel Heredia and Isabel Livermore. She was "an educated and intelligent woman" raised with an education "typical of the bourgeoisie of the time: refined, strong belief in Catholicism, foreign travel and a flair for fine arts."
They had eight children, five of whom became or married Spanish nobility. A grandson, Jorge Loring Martinez, excelled as an aviation entrepreneur and inventor. A great grandson, Jorge Loring Miró SJ, is a widely published Spanish Jesuit priest.
A third great grand daughter, Vittoria Eugenia Alvarez de Toledo y Marone-Cinzano, is the 7th and current Marquesa de Casa Loring and a cousin, once removed, of King Juan Carlos of Spain.


=== Career and title ===
He built (or helped build) the first railroad in Andalusia, from Córdoba to Málaga. He was created Marquis de Casa Loring in 1856.
He founded the Bank of Málaga. He founded the newspaper El Correo de Andalucía and supported metal refining and lead smelting.
He lived in Madrid between 1873 and 1890, where he was Liberal MP and senator for many years.


== Legacy ==

Amalia Loring and her new husband created Málaga's La Concepción Gardens and named them after their youngest daughter. "La Concepción is one of the most beautiful and important tropical botanical gardens in Spain and one of the best in Europe." The garden was created at the Loring family farm.
In 1859 the Marquis opened the Loringiano Museum to hold an archeological collection he had started.  It has now grown to be the present-day Museum of Málaga.


== See also ==
List of Marqueses de Casa Loring


== References ==

The Giving Keys (TGK) is a Los Angeles-based jewelry company founded by singer-songwriter and actress Caitlin Crosby. Working to repurpose old & new keys into modern jewelry and accessories, The Giving Keys stamps inspiring words on keys and then creates necklaces, bracelets, and have in the past created rings, earrings, and iPhone cases with the engraved keys. Recipients of the accessories are encouraged to one day give their key away to someone who needs the message more than they do. The Giving Keys keeps an active blog of stories of customers who "pay it forward" and give their key away.
TGK employs local residents who are transitioning out of homelessness to create their product. TGK has partnered with Chrysalis, PATH, and United Way to support homeless populations in Los Angeles County. The Giving Keys is headquartered in Los Angeles, California, United States, and can be found in over 1200 retail locations worldwide, including Nordstrom, TOMS Marketplace, Kitson, Fred Segal, Anthropologie, Sevenly, and Altar'd State.


== History ==
The Giving Keys was founded in 2008. Founder Caitlin Crosby has detailed the origins of The Giving Keys in The Huffington Post and at a TEDx event (TEDxBend). Crosby took to wearing an old hotel key as jewelry and one day asked a locksmith to engrave the word LOVE on the key. As friends and fans took interest in her key, she decided to make her own line of key necklaces with inspiring words on them to sell at her concerts. Shortly after launching the jewelry line, Crosby attended a movie screening by Invisible Children in Hollywood. Touched by the experience, she struck up conversation with a homeless couple (named Rob and Cera) outside the movie theater after the film. Crosby offered to take the couple out for a meal and complimented Cera on her necklace. Cera mentioned that she designed it herself, and in a moment of impulse, Crosby invited the couple to be her business partners and help her produce her high-demand jewelry. Over the few years, the company has grown rapidly; as of August 2014 TGK has employed 19 people transitioning out of homelessness.
The Giving Keys has been featured on The Today Show, and in Elle, People, E! News, Last Call with Carson Daly, MTV, Relevant magazine, and The Huffington Post.


== Non-Profit Partnerships ==
The Giving Keys has partnered with a Los Angeles-based non-profit called Chrysalis. Chrysalis helps The Giving Keys select appropriate jewelry makers from their client database. In addition to supporting formerly homeless populations via Chrysalis, PATH and United Way, The Giving Keys has partnered with various cause-based charities to help them raise funds. Partnerships have included Invisible Children, Project Semicolon  31 Bits, Keep A Breast, So Worth Loving, Able Made, Liberty in North Korea, Not for Sale, and Saving Innocence.


== References ==

The 2023–24 North Carolina Tar Heels women's basketball team represented the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in the 2023–24 NCAA Division I women's basketball season. The Tar Heels were led by head coach Courtney Banghart, in her fifth season in Chapel Hill. She was assisted by Joanne Aluka-White, Adrian Walters, and Itoro Coleman. The Tar Heels played their home games at Carmichael Arena, as members of the Atlantic Coast Conference.
The Tar Heels started the season ranked sixteenth in the nation and won their first five straight games.  However, they then lost four of their next five games, including two at their early season tournament, the Gulf Coast Showcase, and their ACC–SEC Challenge matchup. Three of these four losses were to ranked teams, including number 16 Kansas State, number 1 South Carolina and number 17 Connecticut.  They finished the non-conference season with two straight wins and a 8–4 record. The Tar Heels won their first three ACC regular season games, including wins over number 25 Syracuse and at number 16 Notre Dame. They dropped a game to number 21 Florida State before winning their next four straight games.  Their four game winning streak included a win over number 13 Louisville. The Tar Heels lost their next four straight games and fell out of the national rankings. They lost two of their final six games of the season, including to number 8 Virginia Tech. A highlight of the wins was a rivalry win over number 6 NC State.
The Tar Heels finished the season 20–13 overall and 11–7 in ACC play to finish in a tie for seventh place.  As the eighth seed in the ACC tournament, lost to ninth seed Miami in the Second Round. They received an at-large invitation to the NCAA Tournament, marking the fourth straight time the Tar Heels qualified for the tournament. As the eighth seed in the Albany 1 region, they defeated ninth seed Michigan State in the First Round before losing at first seed South Carolina in the Second Round to end their season.


== Previous season ==
Ranked No. 12 in the preseason AP Poll, Banghart's Tar Heels got off to another hot start. They won six straight to start the season, culminating in a come-from-behind victory to defeat No. 5 Iowa State in the championship game of the women's PKI, climbing as high as No. 6 in the nation during their win streak. ACC play proved more challenging for the Tar Heels, as the team would lose its first three conference games in a row before upsetting then-No. 4 Notre Dame at home in Carmichael to earn their first ACC win of the season.
The Tar Heels would finish ACC play with an 11–7 conference record, tying Miami for sixth in the regular season standings, but lost the tiebreaker to the Hurricanes and were awarded the 7 seed in the ACC Tournament. They would face and defeat 10th seed Clemson in the second round, giving Coach Banghart her first victory in the ACC tournament as Tar Heel coach.
After being in contention most of the season for a top-four seed in the NCAA Tournament, which would have given them the privilege of hosting first and second round games, the Tar Heels ultimately earned the 6 seed in the Seattle 3 Regional. They would defeat 11 seed St. John's in the first round before losing to 3 seed Ohio State in the second round, ending their season just shy of a second-straight sweet sixteen appearance and with a 22–11 overall record.


== Offseason ==
Shortly following the conclusion of the 2022–23 season, guard/forward Destiny Adams announced her intentions to enter the transfer portal via social media. Adams later committed to Rutgers, returning to her home state of New Jersey.
A day after Adams, multi-year starter Kennedy Todd-Williams also entered the transfer portal, to the surprise of many in Chapel Hill. She committed to Ole Miss shortly thereafter.
Guards Eva Hodgson and Ariel Young also departed the team at the end of the season. Young was forced to medically retire due to a knee injury sustained in 2021, and Hodgson completed her fifth and final year of college eligibility.
In addition to the incoming recruiting class, Banghart and the Tar Heels have been active in the transfer portal to mitigate the departures, as on April 3, former Boston College F/C Maria Gakdeng committed to the Tar Heels for the 2023–24 season.
The Tar Heels added another player from the transfer portal on April 24, when former Iowa State guard and 2022 Big XII Defensive Player of the Year Lexi Donarski committed to the team. She has two years of eligibility remaining.
The roster received another boost when 2022 NC Gatorade POY and McDonald's All-American Indya Nivar committed to the team on April 30, in a post on social media. She had spent her first year of college basketball at Stanford.


=== Departures ===


=== Additions ===


==== Incoming transfers ====


==== Recruiting class ====

Sources:
† Denotes Walk-On


== Roster ==


== Schedule ==
Source


== Rankings ==


== See also ==


== References ==

Aykut Özer (born 1 January 1993) is a footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for Ankara Keçiörengücü in the Turkish TFF 1. Lig. Born in Germany, he represented Turkey at various youth international levels up to the under-21s.


== Club career ==
Özer started is career with Eintracht Frankfurt. He was part of the squad the qualified to the 2011 UEFA European Under-19 Championship. One of his first games with the first team, was a 10–3 victory against FSG Homberg/Ober-Ofleiden in a friendly match on 14 July 2010.
He joined Karabükspor for the 2014–15, on a pre-contract. He made his debut on a 3–2 defeat against Fenerbahçe.
On 8 August 2017, Özer joined Dutch Eerste Divsie side Fortuna Sittard, signing a one-year contract.
In the summer of 2019, he returned to Turkey, joining Fatih Karagümrük. On 7 May 2021, he renewed his contract with the club.
On 5 July 2021, he joined TFF First League side Samsunspor signing a three-year contract.
On 30 July 2023, Özer joined TFF Second League club Amedspor.


== International career ==
Özer was an unused sub throughout the 2011 UEFA European Under-19 Championship. He played for Turkey at the 2013 FIFA U-20 World Cup.


== Career statistics ==


=== Club ===
As of 4 July 2024


== References ==


== External links ==
Aykut Özer at the Turkish Football Federation
Aykut Özer – UEFA competition record (archive)
Aykut Özer – FIFA competition record (archived)
Aykut Özer at Soccerway

Philip Reid Shawe "Phil" (born August 19, 1969) is an American businessperson. He is the Co-Founder and current Co-CEO of TransPerfect. He has overseen the day-to-day operations of the company since its founding in 1992. Shawe was named Entrepreneur of the Year for New York City by Ernst & Young and named to Crain's New York “40 Under 40 list” as one of the top young executives in New York.


== Biography ==
Shaw was born in 1969 to Shirley and Irvin Shawe in Kentucky. He attended New York University. While at NYU, he and Elizabeth Elting founded TransPerfect.


== Career ==
Shawe began his career after graduating NYU with a position at Chemical Bank in New York. When Chemical Banking Corporation merged with Manufacturers Hanover Corp. in 1991, Shawe quit to join Elting in a new translation service business.
From 1992 until 2018, Shawe had been the co-CEO of TransPerfect. TransPerfect had grown every quarter since its founding. Since May 2018, he has been the sole CEO.
In 2019, Shawe announced that TransPerfect will move the company's Manhattan headquarters from 3 Park Avenue to Eyal Ofer's NoMad Tower.
Due to the Coronavirus pandemic the NoMad office construction was slowed down and the offices of TransPerfect went largely remote. On April 11, 2023, New York City Mayor Eric Adams cut the ribbon on the new TransPerfect entrance to NoMad Tower, inaugurating the return to in-office work and celebrating the completion of the office renovations of the seven floors the firm leased in the building. 
Shawe celebrated Mayor Adams' presence at the ribbon cutting by penning an article welcoming Adams' work of making more pedestrian walk spaces and bikeways using streets where cars once dominated.
The achievement of TransPerfect under Shawe's and his sales and fulfillment teams in reaching over $1.2 billion in revenues for 2022 garnered Shawe the cover of translation industry magazine, Multilingual.
Shawe built his team with the idea of “paying it forward”. When someone attains a certain level of success in the TransPerfect system, Shawe asks them to repay the success by coaching the next generation of leaders.


=== TransPerfect Legal Challenge ===

Beginning in 2014, TransPerfect's two co-founders became entangled in a legal fight for control of the company. Since the founding of the company, Shawe and Elting had repeatedly clashed.
Elting and Shawe filed several suits against each other, each seeking injunctive relief and restructuring of TransPerfect.
Elting's action in New York's state courts was ultimately dismissed.
Shawe and Elting's dispute in Delaware Chancery Court set a significant precedent in corporate law. Elting sought a forced sale of the company based on Delaware statutory law. Following significant mediation, and a $300 million offer from Shawe to purchase Elting's shares,  Chancellor Andre Bouchard found that the directors of the company were irreparably deadlocked, and that, because both of them effectively held half of the company's shares, the only viable remedy was the appointment of a custodian and a forced sale.
As part of that long-running Delaware litigation, Philip Shawe and TransPerfect have been sanctioned for lying under oath, destroying evidence, and willfully violating court orders. Elting's attorneys at the firm Kramer Levin were also sanctioned for obstruction during a deposition during the case. The Delaware Supreme Court ultimately vacated the sanctions against Shawe and TransPerfect.
Ultimately, Shawe bought Elting's shares for $385 million. The sale price was slightly higher than his offer of $325 Million to Elting prior to the conclusion of the public auction, but it was not the billion dollar valuation that Elting, and the Custodian had believed. Shawe therefore became the sole owner of TransPerfect.
Shawe has been outspoken on what he considers to be corruption in the Chancery Court. He believes, "Delaware is governed by an unelected and omnipotent Chancery Court that no longer serves the interests of the masses... Instead, it benefits a small circle of judges, law firms and lawyers who make billion-dollar decisions with no accountability."
Once he became the sole owner of Transperfect, Shawe moved all of his corporate holdings from Delaware to Nevada. Some Delaware corporate law commentators have characterized Shawe as litigious and someone who engaged "in a spiteful personal vendetta" via a public attack ad campaign against Chancellor Andre Bouchard following Bouchard's decision to order the unique and rarely used remedy of a forced sale of a successful company that was not in danger of bankruptcy or financial stress.
In 2020, Shawe was a guest lecturer of Yale Professor Jonathan Macey as part of his Financial Markets and Corporate Law Clinic about his experiences with the Delaware Chancery and Delaware's General Corporation Law.
In 2024, Shawe became more active in local politics in Delaware as a direct attempt to highlight what he deems as corruption within the Delaware judiciary. On September 10, 2024, Matt Meyer, Shawe's backed candidate for Governor won the primary election and will face the Republican challenger in the November election.


== Affiliations and philanthropy ==
Shawe has guest lectured on Entrepreneurship at New York University and Columbia University and is a member of the Association for a Better New York (ABNY). He had been a member of the board of directors of The Joyful Heart Foundation, a non-profit that worked in support of survivors of sexual assault, domestic violence, and child abuse. His philanthropic efforts include supporting over 25 causes by donating time or financial support, and he was named to The V Foundation for Cancer Research's Circle of Honor.
Shawe backs Girls Who Code, a group that helps women's equity and equality within the technology sectors. He has encouraged his employees to give and incentivizes them to do so. The company has raised over $250 thousand to date.
In 2018, Shawe sponsored ultramarathon runner Michele Graglia to run the Atacama Desert, for which Graglia was accepted into the Guinness Book. Shawe is sponsoring Graglia to run three more deserts - the Gobi, Sahara and Antarctica.
The sponsorship of Graglia is part of Shawe's management and motivational ethos. He fosters a culture of independence and problem-solving within his team and inspires and motivates them by encouraging camaraderie through shared experiences. He organizes adventurous trips and climbs, skis, and takes teams to visit exotic locations. Also, recognizing the value of each employee and office, Shawe personally travels to meet the staff at different company locations year-round, almost every month, emphasizing the significance of individual contributions to TransPerfect's operations.


== References ==


== External links ==
Phil Shawe Website

Alberto Gaitero Martín (born 3 July 1996) is a Spanish judoka. He is a silver medalist at the Mediterranean Games and a two-time medalist at the European Judo Championships.


== Career ==
Gaitero won the silver medal in the men's 66 kg event at the 2018 Mediterranean Games held in Tarragona, Spain. He competed at the World Judo Championships in 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2021.
In 2021, Gaitero competed in the men's 66 kg event at the Judo World Masters held in Doha, Qatar. A few months later, he won the silver medal in his event at the 2021 Judo Grand Slam Antalya held in Antalya, Turkey. He also won one of the bronze medals in the men's 66 kg event at the 2021 European Judo Championships held in Lisbon, Portugal.
Gaitero competed in the men's 66 kg event at the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan where he was eliminated in his first match by Georgii Zantaraia of Ukraine.


== Achievements ==


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Alberto Gaitero at the International Judo Federation
Alberto Gaitero at the European Judo Union
Alberto Gaitero at JudoInside.com
Alberto Gaitero at Olympics.com
Alberto Gaitero at Olympedia
Alberto Gaitero at InterSportStats
Alberto Gaitero Martin at the Comité Olímpico Español (in Spanish) (archived, alternate link)
Alberto Gaitero at The-Sports.org 
Alberto Gaitero on Instagram

Lester Chang (Chinese: 鄭永佳) is an American politician who represents the 49th district of the New York State Assembly, which comprises part of South Brooklyn. A Republican, he defeated longtime Democratic incumbent Peter J. Abbate Jr. in 2022.


== Early life and education ==
Lester Chang was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan to parents from China. When he was 8 years old, his father died of cancer and the family moved to Hong Kong before moving to Midwood, Brooklyn. Chang graduated from Midwood High School, then Brooklyn College with a Bachelor of Science in accounting and the State University of New York Maritime College with a Master of Science in international transportation.


=== Naval Reserve ===

Chang is a retired member of the United States Navy Reserve and current member of the New York Naval Militia. In the aftermath of 9/11, he was assigned to Washington, D.C. and was deployed to Bagram, Afghanistan as a military analyst.


== Political career ==
Chang first ran for office in the 2016 special election for the 65th Assembly district to succeed Sheldon Silver following his resignation due to a corruption scandal. He was on the ballot for the Republican, Reform, Independence, and 'Clean Up This Mess' party lines. He placed third behind Democrat Alice Cancel and Working Families Party-endorsed Yuh-Line Niou respectively.
In 2020, he ran for State Senate in the 26th district, losing to incumbent Democrat Brian Kavanagh.
In 2022, Chang announced he would run against longtime Democratic incumbent Peter J. Abbate Jr. in the 49th Assembly district. The redrawn district is majority Asian-American and includes parts of the Southern Brooklyn communities of Dyker Heights, Sunset Park, Borough Park and Bensonhurst. In an upset attributed to Republican organizing in the traditionally Democratic-leaning Chinese community and the support of several hometown associations, Chang defeated Abbate. He was sworn in as a member of the Assembly on January 3, 2023.
Chang was re-elected to the Assembly in 2024.


=== Residency questions ===
Following his election to the State Assembly, the Brooklyn Democratic Party attempted to block Chang from being seated. Proponents claimed that Chang had been living in Manhattan and was therefore ineligible to have been elected under New York's one-year residency requirement for candidates. Chang claimed to have lived in Manhattan until 2019, when his late wife died, before moving back to Brooklyn; however, records showed he had voted in Manhattan in 2021 and previously ran for office there in 2016 and 2020. Critics of the move pointed out that his ballot petitions could have been challenged in court before the election, but Democrats waited to make an issue of Chang's residency until after he had already won.
Following an investigation organized by Speaker Carl Heastie, Assembly Democrats announced in January 2023 that despite concerns as to the truthfulness of Chang's claims about his district residency, they would not attempt to expel Chang from the Assembly based on those concerns. Assembly Speaker Carl Heastie emphasized that Assembly Democrats were at liberty to revisit the issue at a later time.
The Daily News editorial board published an article in support of Chang taking his Assembly seat, noting hypocrisy from Brooklyn Democratic Party Chair Rodneyse Bichotte Hermelyn and Heastie.


== Personal life ==
Chang lives in his childhood home in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. He has spoken about receiving mental health treatment for PTSD, the death of his wife from cancer in 2019, and aiding his 95-year-old mother who suffers from Alzheimer's disease.


== Electoral history ==


=== 2024 ===


=== 2022 ===


=== 2020 ===


=== 2016 ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Lester Chang at the New York State Assembly
Campaign website
Lester Chang at Ballotpedia

Electoral history of Ron Paul, Republican U.S. Representative from Texas (1976-1977, 1979-1985, 1997-2013), 1988 Libertarian Party Presidential nominee and candidate for the 2008 and 2012 Republican presidential nomination.


== House and Senate races (1974-1984) ==
Texas's 22nd congressional district, 1974:

Robert R. Casey (D) (inc.) – 47,783 (69.54%)
Ron Paul (R) – 19,483 (28.35%)
James T. Smith (American) – 847 (1.23%)
Jill Fein (Socialist Workers) – 602 (0.88%)
Texas's 22nd congressional district, 1976 (special election):

Robert Gammage (D) – 15,287 (42.07%)
Ron Paul (R) – 14,386 (39.59%)
John S. Brunson (D) – 3,670 (10.10%)
Roy Ybarra (D) – 1,456 (4.01%)
J. Charles Whitfield (I) – 776 (2.14%)
Joe W. Jones (I) – 568 (1.56%)
Erich J. Brann (I) – 197 (0.54%)
Texas's 22nd congressional district, 1976 (special election runoff):

Ron Paul (R) – 39,041 (56.16%)
Robert Gammage (D) – 30,483 (43.85%)
Texas's 22nd congressional district, 1976:

Robert Gammage (D) – 96,535 (50.07%)
Ron Paul (R) (inc.) – 96,267 (49.93%)
Texas's 22nd congressional district, 1978:

Ron Paul (R) – 54,643 (50.56%)
Robert Gammage (D) (inc.) – 53,443 (49.45%)
Texas's 22nd congressional district, 1980:

Ron Paul (R) (inc.) – 106,797 (51.04%)
Michael A. Andrews (D) – 101,094 (48.31%)
Vaudie V. Nance (I) – 1,360 (0.65%)
Texas's 22nd congressional district, 1982:

Ron Paul (R) (inc.) – 66,536 (100.00%)
Republican primary for the United States Senate from Texas, 1984:

Phil Gramm – 246,716 (73.25%)
Ron Paul – 55,431 (16.46%)
Robert Mosbacher, Jr. – 26,279 (7.80%)
Hank Grover – 8,388 (2.49%)


== 1988 presidential election ==
1987 Libertarian National Convention:

Ron Paul – 196 (51.31%)
Russell Means – 120 (31.41%)
James A. Lewis – 49 (12.83%)
None – 17 (4.45%)
1988 North Dakota Libertarian presidential primary:

Ron Paul – 985 (100.00%)
1988 United States presidential election:

George H. W. Bush/Dan Quayle (R) – 48,886,597 (53.4%) and 426 electoral votes (79.18%, 40 states carried)
Michael Dukakis/Lloyd Bentsen (D) – 41,809,476 (45.6%) and 111 electoral votes (20.63%, 10 states and D.C. carried)
Lloyd Bentsen/Michael Dukakis (D) – 1 electoral vote (0.19%, West Virginia faithless elector)
Ron Paul/Andre Marrou (LBT) – 431,750 (0.5%)
Lenora Fulani (New Alliance) – 217,221 (0.2%)
Others – 249,642 (0.3%)


== House races (from 1996) ==
Texas's 14th congressional district, 1996 (Republican primary):

Greg Laughlin (inc.) – 14,777 (42.52%)
Ron Paul – 11,112 (31.97%)
Jim Deats – 8,466 (24.36%)
Ted Bozarth – 398 (1.15%)
Texas's 14th congressional district, 1996 (Republican primary runoff):

Ron Paul – 11,244 (54.06%)
Greg Laughlin (inc.) – 9,555 (45.94%)
Texas's 14th congressional district, 1996:

Ron Paul (R) – 99,961 (51.08%)
Charles Morris (D) – 93,200 (47.62%)
Ed Fasanella (Natural Law) – 2,538 (1.30%)
Texas's 14th congressional district, 1998:

Ron Paul (R) (inc.) – 84,459 (55.25%)
Loy Sneary (D) – 68,014 (44.49%)
Write-in – 390 (0.26%)
Texas's 14th congressional district, 2000:

Ron Paul (R) (inc.) – 137,370 (59.71%)
Loy Sneary (D) – 92,689 (40.29%)
Texas's 14th congressional district, 2002:

Ron Paul (R) (inc.) – 102,905 (68.09%)
Corby Windham (D) – 48,224 (31.91%)
Texas's 14th congressional district, 2004:

Ron Paul (R) (inc.) – 173,668 (100.00%)
Texas's 14th congressional district, 2006 (Republican primary):

Ron Paul (inc.) – 24,075 (77.65%)
Cynthia Sinatra – 6,931 (22.35%)
Texas's 14th congressional district, 2006:

Ron Paul (R) (inc.) – 94,380 (60.19%)
Shane Sklar (D) – 62,429 (39.81%)
Texas's 14th congressional district, 2008 (Republican primary):

Ron Paul (inc.) – 37,777 (70.43%)
Chris Peden – 15,859 (29.56%)
Texas's 14th congressional district, 2008:

Ron Paul (R) (inc.) – 191,293 (100.00%)
Texas's 14th congressional district, 2010

Ron Paul (inc.) – 140,441 (76.0%)
Robert Pruett – 44,345 (24.0%)


== 2008 presidential election ==
Iowa Republican straw poll, 2008:

Mitt Romney – 4,516 (31.58%)
Mike Huckabee – 2,587 (18.09%)
Sam Brownback – 2,192 (15.33%)
Tom Tancredo – 1,961 (13.71%)
Ron Paul – 1,305 (9.13%)
Tommy Thompson – 1,039 (7.27%)
Fred Thompson – 203 (1.42%)
Rudy Giuliani – 183 (1.28%)
Duncan Hunter – 174 (1.22%)
John McCain – 101 (0.71%)
John Cox – 41 (0.29%)
Republican New Hampshire Vice Presidential primary, 2008:

John Barnes, Jr. – 40,207 (62.43%)
John McCain* – 4,305 (6.68%)
Mike Huckabee* – 3,227 (5.01%)
Rudy Giuliani* – 3,164 (4.91%)
Mitt Romney* – 2,396 (3.72%)
Ron Paul* – 1,938 (3.01%)
Fred Thompson* – 1,496 (2.32%)
Duncan Hunter* – 901 (1.40%)
Others – 3,982 (6.18%)
(* – write in)
Liberty Union Party presidential primary, 2008:

Brian Moore – 178 (44.61%)
Barack Obama – 25 (6.27%)
Hillary Clinton – 15 (3.76%)
Ralph Nader – 5 (1.25%)
Eugene V. Debs –  1 (0.25%)
Patrick Leahy – 1 (0.25%)
John McCain – 1 (0.25%)
Richard Norford – 1 (0.25%)
Ron Paul – 1 (0.25%)
Morgan Phillips – 1 (0.25%)
Others – 170 (42.61%)
Constitution Party presidential primaries, 2008:

Don J. Grundmann – 16,105 (36.07%)
Max Riekse – 13,597 (30.45%)
Ron Paul – 65 (0.15%)
David Andrew Larson – 18 (0.04%)
Bryan Malatesta – 18 (0.04%)
Undecided – 7 (0.02%)
Mike Huckabee – 3 (0.01%)
Alan Keyes – 3 (0.01%)
Mitt Romney – 2 (0.00%)
Jerome Corsi – 1 (0.00%)
Others – 1 (0.00%)
Minnesota Independence Party presidential caucus, 2008:

Mike Bloomberg – 50 (50.00%)
Barack Obama – 20 (20.00%)
Ron Paul – 20 (20.00%)
Others – 10 (10.00%)
2008 Libertarian National Convention (Presidential tally):
First ballot:

Bob Barr – 153
Mary Ruwart – 152
Wayne Allyn Root – 123
Mike Gravel – 71
George Phillies – 49
Steve Kubby – 41
Michael Jingozian – 23
Ron Paul – 6
Christine Smith – 6
Penn Jillette – 3
Daniel Imperato – 1
William Koehler – 1
None of the above – 2
Second ballot:

'Bob Barr – 188
Mary Ruwart – 162
Wayne Allyn Root – 138
Mike Gravel – 71
George Phillies – 38
Steve Kubby – 32
Ron Paul – 3
Stephen Colbert – 1
Jesse Ventura – 1
None of the above – 1
Third ballot:

Bob Barr – 186
Mary Ruwart – 186
Wayne Allyn Root – 146
Mike Gravel – 71
George Phillies – 31
Ron Paul – 1
None of the above – 2
Sixth ballot:

Bob Barr – 324
Mary Ruwart – 276
Ralph Nader – 1
Ron Paul – 1
None of the above – 26
Republican presidential primaries, 2008:

John McCain – 9,926,234 (46.80%)
Mitt Romney – 4,663,847 (21.99%)
Mike Huckabee – 4,280,723 (20.18%)
Ron Paul – 1,210,022 (5.71%)
Rudy Giuliani – 597,494 (2.82%)
Fred Thompson – 294,607 (1.39%)
Uncommitted – 70,866 (0.33%)
Alan Keyes – 59,637 (0.28%)
Scattering – 42,822 (0.20%)
Duncan Hunter – 39,895 (0.19%)
Tom Tancredo – 8,595 (0.04%)
John Cox – 3,351 (0.02%)
Sam Brownback – 2,838 (0.01%)
2008 Republican National Convention (Presidential tally):

John McCain – 2,343 (99.28%)
Ron Paul – 15 (0.64%)
Mitt Romney – 2 (0.09%)
2008 United States presidential election:

Barack Obama/Joe Biden (D) – 69,498,215 (52.91%) and 365 electoral votes (28 states+D.C.+NE-02 carried)
John McCain/Sarah Palin (R) – 59,948,240 (45.66%) and 173 electoral votes (22 states carried)
Ralph Nader/Matt Gonzales (I) – 738,475 (0.56%)
Bob Barr/Wayne Allyn Root (LBT) – 523,686 (0.40%)
Chuck Baldwin/Darrell Castle (CST) – 199,314 (0.15%)
Cynthia McKinney/Rosa Clemente (Green) – 161,603 (0.12%)
Alan Keyes/Brian Rohrbough – 47,694 (0.04%)
Ron Paul/With Multiple VP candidates – 42,426 (0.03%)
Gloria La Riva/Eugene Puryear (Socialism & Liberation) – 6,808 (0.01%)
Brian Moore/Stewart Alexander (Socialist) – 6,528 (0.01%)


== 2012 presidential election ==
Iowa Republican straw poll, 2011:

Michele Bachmann - 4,823 (28.6%)
Ron Paul - 4,671 (27.7%)
Tim Pawlenty - 2,293 (13.6%)
Rick Santorum - 1,657 (9.8%)
Herman Cain - 1,456 (8.6%)
Rick Perry (write-in) - 718 (4.3%)
Mitt Romney - 567 (3.4%)
Newt Gingrich - 385 (2.3%)
Jon Huntsman - 69 (0.4%)
Thaddeus McCotter - 35 (0.2%)
Scattering - 218 (1.30%)
Republican New Hampshire Vice Presidential primary, 2012:

Mitt Romney - 97,591 (39.27%)
Ron Paul - 56,872 (22.88%)
Jon Huntsman, Jr. - 41,964 (16.88%)
Rick Santorum - 23,432 (9.43%)
Newt Gingrich - 23,421 (9.42%)
Rick Perry - 1,764 (.71%)
Others - 3,171 (1.27%)
Misc. write-ins - 260 (0.1%)
2012 Libertarian National Convention (Presidential tally):

Gary Johnson - 419 (70.42%)
R. Lee Wrights - 152 (25.55%)
Jim Burns - 12 (2.02%)
Carl Person - 3 (0.50%)
NOTA - 3 (0.50%)
Sam Sloan (Write-in) - 2 (0.34%)
Max Abramson (Write-in) - 2 (0.34%)
Ron Paul (Write-in) - 1 (0.17%)
Wayne Allyn Root (Write-in) - 1 (0.17%)
Republican presidential primaries, 2012:

Mitt Romney - 10,031,336 (52.13%)
Rick Santorum - 3,932,069 (20.43%)
Newt Gingrich - 2,734,571 (14.21%)
Ron Paul - 2,095,762 (10.89%)
Rick Perry - 54,769 (0.28%)
Jon Huntsman, Jr. - 83,918 (0.44%)
Michele Bachmann - 41,199 (0.21%)
2012 Republican National Convention (Presidential tally):

Mitt Romney – 2,061 (90.16%)
Ron Paul – 185 (8.09%)
Rick Santorum – 9 (0.39%)
Jon Huntsman, Jr. - 1 (0.04%)
Michele Bachmann - 1 (0.04%)
Buddy Roemer - 1 (0.04%)
Uncommitted  - 1 (0.04%)
2012 United States presidential election:

Barack Obama/Joe Biden (D) - 65,915,796 (51.06%)
Mitt Romney/Paul Ryan (R) - 60,933,500 (47.20%)
Gary Johnson/James P. Gray (Libertarian) - 1,275,971 (0.99%)
Jill Stein/Cheri Honkala (Green) - 469,627 (0.36%)
Virgil Goode/Jim Clymer (Constitution) - 122,388 (0.09%)
Roseanne Barr/Cindy Sheehan (Peace and Freedom) - 67,326 (0.05%)
Rocky Anderson/Luis J. Rodriguez (Justice) - 43,018 (0.03%)
Tom Hoefling/Jonathan D. Ellis (America's Party) - 40,628	(0.03%)
Ron Paul - 26,204 (0.02%)
Others - 190,944 (0.15%)


== 2016 Presidential Election ==
Though not a candidate in the 2016 United States presidential election, Ron Paul received one vote in the electoral college. Paul also received a vote on the first ballot at the Libertarian Party National Convention's nomination for President.


== See also ==
Electoral history of Rand Paul
Ron Paul presidential campaign, 1988
Ron Paul presidential campaign, 2008
Ron Paul presidential campaign, 2012


== References ==

The Celtic deities are known from a variety of sources such as written Celtic mythology, ancient places of worship, statues, engravings, religious objects, as well as place and personal names.
Celtic deities can belong to two categories: general and local. General deities were known by the Celts throughout large regions, and are the gods and goddesses called upon for protection, healing, luck, and honour. The local deities from Celtic nature worship were the spirits of a particular feature of the landscape, such as mountains, trees, or rivers, and thus were generally only known by the locals in the surrounding areas.
After Celtic lands became Christianised, there were attempts by Christian writers to euhemerize most of the pre-Christian deities. Some scholars have suggested that a few others, such as Brigit, may have become Saints in the Church. The Tuatha Dé Danann of Irish mythology, who were commonly interpreted as divinities or deified ancestors, were downgraded in Christian writing to fallen or ‘half-fallen’ angels, historical men, or demons; the latter has been the most common Christian view on most pagan deities. In many cases, traditions or practices, such as the reverence of holy wells, which often became baptismals, and most of which predate the coming of Christianity, that were considered redeemable were co-opted or reinterpreted as Christian.


== Ancient Gallic deities ==
The Gauls inhabited the region corresponding to modern-day France, Belgium, Switzerland, southern and western Germany, Luxembourg and northern Italy. They spoke Gallic. The Celtic Britons inhabited most of the island of Great Britain and spoke Common Brittonic or British.


=== Female ===


=== Male ===


== Iberian Celtic deities ==

The Celtiberians and Gallaecians were ancient Celtic peoples in Iberia. They spoke Hispano-Celtic languages.


=== Female ===


=== Male ===


== Gaelic deities and characters ==

The Gaels inhabit Ireland, the Isle of Man and most of western and northern Scotland. They speak the Goidelic languages.


=== Female ===


=== Male ===


== Brythonic deities and characters ==
The Brythonic peoples, descendants of the Celtic Britons, inhabit western Britain (mainly Strathclyde, Wales, Cumbria and Cornwall) and Brittany. They speak the Brythonic languages.


=== Female ===


=== Male ===


== References ==


== Works cited ==
Adkins, Lesley; Adkins, Roy A. (2004). Handbook to life in ancient Rome (Updated ed.). New York: Facts on file. p. 283. ISBN 0-8160-5026-0.
Anwyl, Edward (1906). Celtic Religion in Pre-Christian Times. Andover-Harvard Theological Library.
Arenas-Esteban, J. Alberto (2010). Celtic religion across space and time: fontes epigraphici religionvm celticarvm antiqvarvm. Toledo: Junta de Comunidades de Castilla-La Mancha. ISBN 978-84-7788-589-4.
de Bernardo Stempel, Patrizia (2003). "Die sprachliche Analyse keltischer Theonyme". Zeitschrift für celtische Philologie. 53 (1): 41–69. doi:10.1515/ZCPH.2003.41. S2CID 201278751.
Coulter, Charles Russell; Turner, Patricia (2000). Encyclopedia of Ancient Deities. Chicago: Fitzroy Dearborn. ISBN 1-57958-270-2.
Dimitz, August. History of Carniola. Vol. I.
Dorcey, Peter F. (1992). The cult of Silvanus: a study in Roman folk religion. Leiden: Brill. ISBN 90-04-09601-9.
Freeman, Philip (2017). Celtic Mythology: Tales of Gods, Goddesses, and Heroes. Oxford UP. ISBN 978-0-19-046047-1.
"Greek & Roman Mythology - Tools". http://www.classics.upenn.edu/myth/php/tools/dictionary.php?regexp=RHEA&method=standard.
Green, Miranda Jane (1993). Celtic myths. Austin: U of Texas P. ISBN 0-292-72754-2.
Keating, Geoffrey (1857). The History of Ireland from the Earliest Period to the English Invasion. P. M. Haverty.
Koch, John T. (2006). Celtic Culture: A Historical Encyclopedia. ABC-CLIO. ISBN 1-85109-440-7.
Kos, Marjeta Šašel (2008). "Dedicanti e Cultores nelle Reliogione Celtiche: A cura di Antonio Sartori" [Celtic divinities from Celeia and its territory: who were the dedicators?]. Quaderni di Acme. 104. CISALPINO: Istituto Editoriale Universitario. Milano: 284–86. {{cite journal}}: Cite journal requires |journal= (help)
Lurker, Manfred (2004). The Routledge dictionary of gods, goddesses, devils and demons (2 ed.). London: Routledge. ISBN 0-415-34018-7.
MacCulloch, J. A. (1911). The Religion of the Ancient Celts. Edinburgh: Clark. ISBN 9780524009307. {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)
Mees, Bernard (2009). Celtic Curses. Boydell. ISBN 9781843834571.
Murley, Joseph Clyde (1922). The Cults of Cisalpine Gaul as Seen in the Inscriptions. The Collegiate Press.
Nicholson, Edward Williams Byron (1904). Keltic researches: Studies in the History and Distribution of the Ancient Goidelic Language and Peoples. Oxford UP.
Olivares Olivares Pedreño, Juan Carlos (2005). "Celtic Gods of the Iberian Peninsula". E-Keltoi: Journal of Interdisciplinary Celtic Studies. 6: 607–649.
Rankin, David (1998). Celts and the classical world. London: Routledge. ISBN 0-415-15090-6.
Roymans, Nico; Derks, Ton, eds. (2009). Ethnic Constructs in Antiquity: The Role of Power and Tradition. Amsterdam: Amsterdam UP. ISBN 978-90-8964-078-9.
Williams, Mark Andrew (2016). Ireland's Immortals: A History of the Gods of Irish Myth. Princeton UP. ISBN 9780691157313.

St. Alban's Episcopal Church is an active parish in the Episcopal Diocese of New York, in the United States. The building is an historic Carpenter Gothic style church now located at 76 St. Alban's Place in Eltingville, Staten Island. It was built in 1865 as the Church of the Holy Comforter at what is now 3939 Richmond Avenue, the present site of the South Shore YMCA, and was designed by Richard Michell Upjohn, the son of the noted Carpenter Gothic architect, Richard Upjohn. In 1873, the building was split in half and moved to its present location, where it was re-assembled and expanded. In 1951, Holy Comforter absorbed the congregation of nearby St. Anne's Episcopal Church, Great Kills, and changed its name to St. Alban's. St. Anne's had been founded in 1929 as an offshoot of Holy Comforter.
The church reported 60 members in 2015 and 28 members in 2023; no membership statistics were reported in 2024 parochial reports. Plate and pledge income reported for the congregation in 2024 was $98,605 with average Sunday attendance (ASA) of 28 persons.
On October 29, 1982, St. Alban's was added to the National Register of Historic Places. In 1984, it acquired an 1883-vintage Hook & Hastings organ, believed to be the oldest pipe organ that currently exists in a Staten Island church.


== See also ==

Church of the Holy Comforter (disambiguation)
List of New York City Designated Landmarks in Staten Island
List of Registered Historic Places in Richmond County, New York
National Register of Historic Places listings in Richmond County, New York


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Mystery Worshiper review

Raja Pervez Ashraf (born 26 December 1950) is a Pakistani politician, businessman and agriculturist who served as the 17th prime minister of Pakistan from June 2012 to March 2013 and as the Speaker of the National Assembly from April 2022 to March 2024. Ashraf was a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan from NA-58 (Rawalpindi-II). He has also served as the Senior Vice President of the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), an alliance of political parties opposed to Imran Khan's PTI party.
Prior to being elevated as prime minister, he served as the Minister for Water and Power in the Yousaf Raza Gillani-led government from March 2008 to February 2011. A senior-ranking leader in the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) from Rawalpindi District, Ashraf assumed premiership on 22 June 2012 after Yousaf Raza Gillani was disqualified over contempt of court charges. Shortlisted by the PPP as a candidate for the post, he was eventually elected based on a 211–89 vote in the National Assembly.
Tackling the corruption scandals, one of the major achievements during his premiership was his interest to develop and implement hydro projects in particular the 970-MW Neelum-Jhelum project. The project had received a big jolt when the Chinese Exim Bank refused to release a $448 million loan linking it to the restoration of the Safe City Project in Islamabad which was stopped by the Supreme Court of Pakistan. During his tenure Water and Power Development Authority (WAPDA) launched a number of mega and medium-sized projects in Gilgit–Baltistan.


== Early life ==
Raja Pervez Ashraf was born to a Punjabi Muslim family on 26 December 1950 in Sanghar, Sindh. Ashraf belongs to the Minhas Rajput clan of Pakhral and is originally from Gujar Khan, an industrial town in the Rawalpindi District of the Potohar region in northern Punjab. The Potohar region is home to numerous prominent political and military personalities. Ashraf comes from a middle class Punjabi speaking family of landowners who have had a traditional background in politics. An uncle of his served as a minister in the cabinet of Ayub Khan during the 1960s. His parents owned agricultural land in the town of Sanghar in Sindh, where he was born and brought up.
He graduated from the University of Sindh in 1970 and was involved in agriculture before entering politics. He is married to Nusrat Pervez Ashraf and has four children, which include two sons and two daughters. Ashraf is multilingual and can fluently speak English, Urdu, Punjabi and Sindhi.


== Early political career ==
He is regarded as an important PPP loyalist and leader in the Rawalpindi region. He contested parliamentary elections in 1990, 1993 and 1997. He won in elections held in 2002 and then in 2008, following which he was appointed as federal minister for water, and as power minister in the cabinet of Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani.


=== Member of Parliament ===
Ashraf has been twice elected Member of the National Assembly of Pakistan (MNA) from his constituency of Gujar Khan, Rawalpindi District. He won re-election in the February 2008 elections. During his time as an MNA, he served as a member of the Standing Committee on Kashmir and the Standing Committee on Law, Justice and Human Rights. Before his ascendance to the post of prime minister, he was also the secretary general of the PPP.


=== Water and Power ministry ===
He became the head of the Water and Power Ministry in the coalition government of PPP, PML-N, ANP, JUI-F and MQM formed after the 2008 elections. During his tenure as power minister, there was a chronic shortage of electricity generation throughout the country and power cuts (load shedding) remained frequent. In the position, he faced heavy criticism for repeatedly promising the country's power crisis would be over "by 2008" as the country suffered regular blackouts. He became one of the most sought after ministers in the National Assembly, by legislators who demanded answers for the power crisis.
According to a report on his parliamentary performance, the water and power ministry while Ashraf was in-charge received as many as 1,147 official questions and queries, of which only 60% were responded to.
The report opined that Ashraf's performance as minister was "tainted by failures to overcome the power shortfall that continued to aggravate even after he was replaced" and that his actions and responses both inside and outside the National Assembly had "not been translated into actions". Nevertheless, about 3,570 megawatts of power was added to the national grid during the PPP government, a major portion of which came during Ashraf's term in office. His term is said to have overseen relatively more megawatts being added to the national grid when compared to other ministers of power and energy since Benazir Bhutto's last government. He was accused of receiving kickbacks in the rental power projects, and of using illegal money to buy foreign property. Ashraf denied the charges, and as of June 2012, was defending himself before the Supreme Court. No official charges have been framed against him as no evidence could be presented so far.
One of the main reasons for power crisis, which have never received due attention and focus is the circular debt and which continued to increase over the years. The government has time and again tried to clear the circular debt, however it comes again. This is because of the structural issues including power theft, poor recovery from other government departments, difference between cost of generation and actual cost charged to customer. During Ashraf's government prioritised hydro power projects in particular Neelum Jhelum 970 MW. During his term, WAPDA initiated several hydro projects in Gilgit Baltistan (GB) including the Satpara Dam having 17 MW power generation capacity and 0.093 million acre feetwater storage capacity and Diamer-Bhasha Dam having 4,500 MW power generation capacity and 8.1 million acre feet water storage capacity, along with hydropower projects of 7,100 MW Bunji, 34 MW Harpo, 80 MW Phandar and 40 MW Basho.
Hydro power is the cheapest energy source and as Minister and PM he gave special attention, however hydro power projects take long time to complete and the electricity from the projects will be available after 10 years. To resolve short term energy crisis, Ashraf implemented power project on rental basis, following the rental policy approved in Mushrrafs tenure. However the projects became controversial.


== Premiership (2012–2013) ==
On 26 April 2012, Prime Minister Yusuf Raza Gilani was convicted of being in contempt of court for refusing to bring charges against President Asif Ali Zardari. On 19 June 2012, Gillani was retroactively ruled ineligible to hold the office by the Supreme Court. The ruling Pakistan People's Party nominated textile minister Makhdoom Shahabuddin to replace Gillani, but the nomination failed when the Anti-Narcotics Force issued a warrant for Shahabuddin's arrest on drug charges. Ashraf was then selected as the party's next option.
On 22 June 2012, Raja Pervez Ashraf was elected Prime Minister of Pakistan Ashraf and his cabinet were sworn in on the same day. His selection as Prime Minister restored the country's government after several days of turmoil where officially the country was without a government. The Associated Press said Ashraf's election was "unlikely to calm the tensions roiling the country" and noted that many observers expected him to eventually be ousted like his predecessor. Political analyst Raza Rumi said Ashraf was likely chosen by the PPP because they knew he would not last long. On 24 July 2012, the government informed the Supreme Court, one day before expiry of the court's deadline, that it had not taken a decision on reopening of the graft cases against President Zardari.

Immediately after his election, Ashraf said that the economy, inflation, and the country's power crisis would be his top concerns. "Our country cannot afford politics of confrontation at this time," he said. Within 24 hours of being elected, Ashraf held a meeting to resolve the energy crisis in the country and directed the Ministry of Petroleum to ensure the supply of 28,000 tonnes of fuel daily to power plants, so as to add 1200 mega watts to the national grid system. There were power protests erupting throughout the country for continual load shedding. The Pakistan Economy Watch (PEW) was critical of this renewed focus on energy, calling it a "useless effort" with the president of PEW, Murtaza Mughal, remarking that load shedding had only "increased in the harrowing summer", making life difficult for the ordinary citizen; Mughal further noted that the announcement of adding more fuel into independent power producers had been portrayed positively, despite the fact that the actual problem did not lie in scarcity of fuel but rather in non-payment of dues. Businesspeople and economists in Pakistan had a mixed response to Ashraf's appointment; while some appreciated the prime minister's focus on the energy crisis and hoped for greater cooperation between key institutions and political parties as being good for economic stability, others questioned his reputation related to rental power and expressed anxiety over the government's ongoing clash with the judiciary which could cause uncertainty and scare businesses away. A government official praised the smooth transition of power and said that the country's economic policy would stay the same, adding that the government's economic team will carry on with implementing the budget and other economic functions as present before Gillani's disqualification.
As an initiative to overcome the energy crises, Ashraf announced his intention to build several small dams across the country. He said that these projects would start from his native Potohar plateau, as part of a development programme for the Potohar region. Apart from energy, he identified the deteriorating law and order situation of Karachi, especially with regards to target killings, as a second major challenge.
In September 2012, during his maiden trip to Gilgit-Baltistan, Ashraf announced a Rs. 2 billion development package for the region.
On 12 July 2012, The Supreme Court in its NRO implementation case order has ruled that Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf must write the letter to Swiss authorities to reopen graft cases against President Asif Ali Zardari.
On 25 July 2012, The Supreme Court gave Raja Pervez Ashraf to 8 August 2012 to implement its order by writing a letter to Swiss authorities to reopen graft cases against President Asif Ali Zradari.
On 8 August 2012, the supreme court adjourned the hearing till 18 September 2012.
Three days after his election, Ashraf visited Nine Zero and met with leaders of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement in Karachi. He also visited the leader of the Pakistan Muslim League (F). The visits were seen as part of a fresh move to reaffirm ties with coalition political parties.
The first significant milestone Ashraf performed after taking charge of his office was an approval for the creation of a post of Deputy Prime Minister of Pakistan to fulfill a demand of the coalition party Pakistan Muslim League (Q) (PML-Q). The post was inaugurated on 25 June and Chaudhry Pervez Elahi of PML-Q was appointed as the first deputy prime minister of the country. However, the position is largely symbolic and has no legal constitutional duties.
On 27 June 2012, the Supreme Court of Pakistan gave prime minister Ashraf two weeks to indicate whether he would ask Swiss authorities to reopen corruption cases against president Zardari. However, Ashraf stated that his position on the issue was no different from that of previous prime minister Gillani. In the first week of July, he directed attention on the Balochistan conflict and called for a high-level meeting to discuss the issue of missing persons in the province. In the first week of July, Ashraf announced the government's plans to establish legislation which would remove the bar on dual nationality holders from contesting in elections. If passed, the legislation would enable Overseas Pakistanis holding dual nationalities eligible to participate in elections and hold public office. The enforcement of such a legislation remains a controversial issue. He made a visit to Peshawar a few days later, where he met local politicians, during which he expressed his views on the parliament being "the mother of all institutions". He has praised the role of democracy in creating an "independent media, judiciary and parliament." He further paid tribute to the Pakistan Army in its role in the War on Terror and military operations in the troubled northwestern areas.
In the fraud case against Asif Ali Zardari, he indicated in September 2012 that he would be willing to open the pending fraud cases.
When commenting on foreign policy after assuming premiership, Ashraf said that he wanted to deal with the United States on "an equal footing". However, he will likely have to deal with the court's demands to charge Zardari before doing much else. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of India congratulated Ashraf shortly after his election, and anticipated greater progress in bilateral relations between the two countries during Ashraf's term. The Chinese government greeted Ashraf and pledged closer ties with Pakistan to strengthen their "all-weather friendship". Other notable messages of congratulation came from U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Afghan president Hamid Karzai.
On 24 June 2012, several Tehrik-i-Taliban militants from Afghanistan entered Pakistan's bordering tribal areas killing 13 Pakistani troops, of which seven were beheaded. During the conflict, Pakistani troops killed fourteen of the raiding militants. The attack, one of several such cross-border skirmishes, was strongly condemned with Raja Pervez Ashraf stating that the matter would be directly taken to Afghan president Hamid Karzai.
Regarding his stand on the Kashmir conflict with India, Ashraf has categorically stated that Pakistan would continue providing moral, political, and diplomatic support to the Kashmiri people of Jammu and Kashmir until a solution was to be reached for the issue in accordance with UN resolutions and Kashmiri aspirations.
Ashraf is expected to visit Kabul, Afghanistan, to hold talks with the Afghan leadership on the peace process in Afghanistan amidst the ongoing Afghan war and to discuss the status of Afghan-led reconciliation with the Afghan Taliban. The visit comes at a time when Pakistan's relations with the United States have improved in the aftermath of the 2011 NATO attack. On 15 July, he performed a two-day state visit to Saudi Arabia, his first official tour since becoming prime minister. During the visit, he would perform Umrah, meet with King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, discuss the status of relations between Pakistan and Saudi Arabia and also meet members of the Pakistani community in Saudi Arabia.
On his visit to Kabul, Afghanistan, in late July 2012, Ashraf met with Karzai government officials and engaged in talks with the two main opposition leaders Abdullah Abdullah from the National Coalition of Afghanistan and Ahmad Zia Massoud from the National Front of Afghanistan. Among other things they discussed the need for increased and regular dialogue between leaders of Afghanistan and Pakistan.
On 30 March, the apex court had directed the National Accountability Bureau to proceed against those who were in the post of minister for water and power from 2006 till the next general elections. As a result, on 20 April, NAB issued arrest warrants for 33 persons, including Ashraf.


== Post-premiership ==
On 16 April 2022, Ashraf was elected unopposed as the 22nd Speaker of the National Assembly.


== Controversies ==


=== Arrest order ===
On 15 January 2013, the Supreme Court of Pakistan ordered the arrest of Raja Pervez Ashraf for alleged corruption as Ashraf was accused of kickbacks from rental power plants that were part of a project intended to serve as part of the solution to Pakistan's power problems. The media derided Raja Pervez Ashraf as Rental Raja. The arrest order came at the same time as the Long March culminated in the national capital of Islamabad. None of the accused in the rental case has been convicted so far. The rental power case is pending with independent Supreme court for nearly four years and no conviction has been made. Ashraf has time and again demanded clearance of his name and denies all the charges. Ashraf in his appearance in the Supreme Court categorically denied such charges and offered his complete cooperation with all authorities and courts.  A member of the ruling Pakistan People's Party referred to the arrest order as "a conspiracy" while Pakistan's interior minister Rehman Malik, claimed that "Even after this order, (Ashraf) is the prime minister and, God willing, he will continue as prime minister." The accountability court in Islamabad indicted former Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf and six others in the rental power case on 16 January 2014.


=== Nepotism ===
Raja Pervez Ashraf appointed his son-in-law Raja Azeem in World Bank (Executive Director-Pakistan and others) in violation of rules and an example of nepotism prevalent in Pakistani political elite.


== See also ==

Left-wing politics in Pakistan


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Government of Pakistan

833 Monica is a minor planet orbiting the Sun. Measurements of the lightcurve made in 2010 give a rotation period of 12.09 ± 0.01 hours. It has a diameter of 21.2 km.


== References ==
 


== External links ==
833 Monica at AstDyS-2, Asteroids—Dynamic Site
Ephemeris · Observation prediction · Orbital info · Proper elements · Observational info
833 Monica at the JPL Small-Body Database

Legal act may refer to:

Legal transaction, means by which legal subjects can change the legal positions of themselves or other persons intentionally
Legislative act, e.g. an act of Parliament or act of Congress, a formal written enactment produced by a legislature
a legal document, regulation, part of law.


== See also ==
Legal action

Southwark Borough Football Club was a football club based in the London Borough of Southwark, England.


== History ==
Founded in 1975 as Southwark Sports, the club initially competed in Sunday league football. In 1982, the club joined the London Spartan League, and advanced to the Premier Division in 1984. In 1988, the club changed its name to Southwark Borough, one year after it first entered the FA Vase. Following a ninth-place finish in the 1988–89 Spartan League, Southwark Borough was ejected from the league for breaking misconduct rules. The club folded on 3 April 1990 after failing to gain admission to the Essex Senior League.


== Ground ==
The club initially played at Southwark Sports Ground in Dulwich. In 1988, Southwark Borough entered a groundsharing agreement with Fisher Athletic at their Surrey Docks Stadium. The groundshare was terminated at the end of the season following Southwark's expulsion from the Spartan League. Southwark later secured a pitch in Kidbrooke before folding due to not having a league to compete in.


== Records ==
Best FA Vase performance: First round, 1988–89
Record attendance: 325 vs Fisher Athletic, Spartan League, 3 April 1989


== References ==


== External links ==
Southwark Borough at the Football Club History Database

Bloodgood was an American Christian metal band that formed in Seattle, Washington, in 1983. By 1988, Bloodgood represented one of the four largest Christian metal bands (excluding the mainstream success of Stryper) alongside Barren Cross, Leviticus, and Whitecross.
Bloodgood became known for their "go-for-broke attitude about showmanship", displaying attitudes and imagery that brought them into collision with some on the extreme Christian right. In a 1998 retrospective, Christian music critic Brian Quincy Newcomb would write that "Bloodgood's ministry and music was a vital stepping stone in the maturing process of Christian rock."


== Background ==
The band formed around the leadership of Les Carlsen and Michael Bloodgood, who had been active in the local music scene in Seattle for some time. Directly prior to the formation of Bloodgood, Michael had been involved in a local effort, what he later described as "basic straight-ahead rock." That effort had disbanded by mid-1984 as Michael Bloodgood felt called to build a Christian metal band. The Seattle area at that time was known for metal bands such as TKO, Queensrÿche, and Metal Church, but Bloodgood felt a need to represent Christ to that audience, and the band was the natural way to do so.
In 1985, Bloodgood released a demo, Metal Missionaries, of which they sold over 5,000 copies at concerts. Their 1986 eponymous debut was produced by Darrell Mansfield. While Bloodgood was visually similar to other metal bands at the time, it was distinguished by three elements: the vocals of Les Carlsen, the songwriting of Michael Bloodgood, and the guitar techniques of David Zaffiro. The band's sound was in many ways typical of competent 1980s glam metal bands, but their lyrics were distinctly Christian. Themes often included Armageddon, hope and victory in Christ, and the Grace of living in God, with Biblical language throughout. When asked about the influence of Stryper upon the band, Michael Bloodgood told an interviewer that the band had formed before Stryper became well known, and so they were not a musical influence because they played different styles of metal.
Their first major United States tour was in 1987 and was protested by groups on the extreme Christian right. The band was more popular in Europe than in the United States and they toured the United Kingdom in 1988. This tour featured lead vocalist Les Carlsen portraying Pontius Pilate during the song "Crucify", as well as a graphic, live-action portrayal of Christ being crucified. The band's position on theatrics, as summed up by Carlsen: "Heavy metal lends itself to visuals and drama... They come naturally from the music we write."


== Present ==
After five studio albums and three live releases, the group officially disbanded in 1994. The group reformed in 2006 and performed several times a year in the U.S. and Europe until 2022 working with Oz Fox from Stryper in the newly formed lineup. Michael Bloodgood, the group's bass player and namesake, also released a worship solo album, The Cross Changes Everything, in early 2008, under the name "Michael Bloodgood and Friends", featuring the guest talents of other musicians, including bandmates Les Carlsen, Oz Fox, Paul Jackson, Mark Welling, and Michael's son, Paul Michael Bloodgood on drums and vocals.
Bloodgood was a 2010 Inductee into the Christian Music Hall of Fame.
In 2010, HM Magazine listed Detonation No. 23 on its Top 100 Christian Rock Albums of All Time list stating that it has "quite an original metal sound". It singles-out "Crucify", "Messiah", "Self-Destruction" and the ballad "Alone in Suicide". Heaven's Metal fanzine ranked it No. 8 on its Top 100 Christian metal albums of all-time list.
Michael Bloodgood was senior pastor of Calvary Chapel Redmond, Washington. where guest artists such as long time friend and lead singer, Les Carlsen came and performed, other artists such as Randy Stonehill, Buck Storm and Darrell Mansfield have also made appearances at CCR in Redmond, Washington.
Les Carlsen was the lead in the Broadway musical Hair. He performed as a guest vocalist with the American Christian metal band Tourniquet on Intense Live Series, Vol. 2 in 1993. Kevin Whisler was in a Tacoma-based Christian pop-metal band called "Watchmen" before joining Bloodgood. Watchmen released two albums: Fear No Evil in 1988 and Generation in 1990, both on Regency Records.
A full-length documentary, Trenches of Rock is currently touring the film festival circuit. Produced by Bloodygood Pictures, the film features exclusive interviews, music and photos, and all of the controversy surrounding the band. Executive producer is James Moll. The official trailer was released in March 2017. A soundtrack is under way to coincide with the documentary's release in late 2017. On October 19, 2013, Bloodgood released the first video, Lamb of God, from Dangerously Close.
On July 29, 2022, it was announced on their official Facebook page that Michael Bloodgood had died due to complications of a hemorrhagic stroke he suffered in February 2022. Two days later, Bloodgood announced its disbanding.


== Members ==
Former

Les Carlsen – lead vocals (1984–1994, 2002–2022)
Michael Bloodgood – bass (1984–1994, 2002–2022; his death)
J.T. Taylor – drums (1984–1986)
David Zaffiro – guitar (1984–1988)
Mark Welling – drums (1986–1989, 1993–1994, 2006–2013)
Paul Jackson –  guitar (1989–1994, 2002–2022)
Kevin Whisler – drums (1989–1991, 2013–2021; his death)
David McKay – keyboards (1991–1994, 2002–2007)
Paul Roraback – drums (1991–1993)
Tim Heintz – keyboards (1991)
David Huff – drums (1991)
Jeffrey McCormack – drums (2002–2006)
Oz Fox – guitar (2007–2022)
Touring

Craig Church – rhythm guitar (1990)
Michael Feighan – drums (2021–2022)
Kent Walstead – guitar (1992)
Timeline


== Discography ==


=== Studio albums ===
Bloodgood (1986, Frontline Records)
Detonation (1987, Frontline Records)
Rock In a Hard Place (1988, Frontline)
Out of the Darkness (1989, Intense Records)
All Stand Together (1991, Broken Records)
Dangerously Close (2013, B. Goode Records)
Trenches of Rock Movie Soundtrack (2019, Bloodygood Pictures/B. Goode Records)


=== Live/video albums ===
Alive In America: Live Volume One (1990, Intense Records)
Shakin' the World: Live Volume Two (1990, Intense Records)
Alive in America: Live Volume One (1990, Intense Records, VHS)
Shakin' the World: Live Volume Two (1990, Intense Records VHS)
To Germany With Love! (1993; Stephans-Buchhandlung)
Bloodgood: Live in Norway (2009, DVD of the band's performance at the SeaSide Festival in Norway, 2009)
Bloodgood Rock Theater (2002, DVD re-issue of Alive in America and Shakin' the World)


=== Compilation appearances ===
Hot Metal Summer (1988, Benson Records)
Hot Metal Summer II (1989, Frontline Records)


=== Compilation ===
The Collection (1991, Intense Records)
Metal Missionaries 25th Anniversary Edition (2010, B. Goode Records)


=== Demo ===
Metal Missionaries (1985, self released)


== See also ==
List of Christian metal artists
List of glam metal bands and artists


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Bloodgood at AllMusic 
Bloodgood CD Gallery

Emerson Point Preserve is a 365-acre (1.48 km2) preserve in Manatee County, Florida, located west of Palmetto and at the western end of Snead Island.


== History ==
The majority of Emerson Point was undeveloped until preliminary site plans were submitted to the County in the early 1980s for an eight-story condo on a three-acre site at the tip of Emerson Point. Due to local opposition, the County suspended the condo project after considering to seek public acquisition of the land. The initial portion of what was then referred to as "Emerson Point Park” was acquired by the State in 1991, with approximately 195 acres acquired under the Conservation and Recreation Lands (CARL) program (exists today as the Florida Forever program) on October 23, 1991, under a 70% State, 30% County funding initiative.


== Features ==
The preserve is home to several Native American mounds in the Portavant Mound Site. The preserve also has an observation tower that provides views of Terra Ceia Bay, Tampa Bay, and the Sunshine Skyway Bridge.


== References ==

The women's aerials event in freestyle skiing at the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, Canada, took place on the February 20 (qualification) and February 24 (final) at Cypress Bowl Ski Area.


== Results ==


=== Qualification ===
The qualification was held on 20 February at 10:00.


=== Final ===
The final was held on 24 February at 19:30.


== References ==

John Scher is an American concert promoter. He was one of the organizers of Woodstock '99.
Scher won the 2009 Tony Award for Best Special Theatrical Event for his work producing Liza's at the Palace.


== References ==


== External links ==
John Scher at IMDb

Casaseca de las Chanas is a municipality located in the province of Zamora, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2009 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 420 inhabitants.


== References ==

Fargo is a town in Monroe County, Arkansas, United States. As of the 2020 United States census it had a population of 57, down from 98 in 2010.


== History ==
Main lines and branches of railroads were being built across Arkansas in the late 1880s. By 1898, two of them—the St. Louis Southwestern Railway running roughly north–south, and the Missouri and North Arkansas Railroad (M&NA) running roughly east–west—crossed. A post office with the name Fargo was established at the crossing, but it was not yet a town. In 1911, the two railways built a depot in Fargo.
At least 33 settlements formed along the railroad as the M&NA was built, including Fargo, where Leroy Mahon owned the farmland at the railroad crossing.


=== Development as a "freedmen's town" ===
Leroy Mahon platted the land and created a settlement for Black families. In doing so, he created a freedmen's town.
Leroy ("Lee") Washington Mahon was born into slavery as Leroy Stenhouse in 1861 in Greenville County, South Carolina. The surname Stenhouse was the same as their slaveowners. When freed, his parents and their children worked as sharecroppers. In 1888, Leroy and his brother Tom moved to Monroe County, Arkansas for better opportunities. In about 1900, Leroy changed his surname to Mahon, and in 1911 he platted the town on 40 acres (16 hectares) of his farmland and Black homeowners bought plots and built homes.
The first established church in Fargo was called First Baptist and Bethel Presbyterian.
In 1920, Floyd B. Brown established the Fargo Agricultural School, which brought students from across the state and had some financial supporters even outside Arkansas. The school focused on outreach and community service in Fargo, gravelling the mud roads, bringing electricity and telephone service to the town, and holding an annual farmers' conference that brought hundreds of farmers to the area to share information and knowledge.


== Geography ==
Fargo is located in northern Monroe County along U.S. Route 49, which leads south 4 miles (6 km) to Brinkley and north 8 miles (13 km) to Hunter. Interstate 40 passes 3 miles (5 km) south of Fargo, with access from Exit 216 (US 49).
According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 0.47 square miles (1.22 km2), of which 0.02 square miles (0.05 km2), or 3.59%, are water.


== Demographics ==


=== 2020 census ===


=== 2000 census ===
As of the census of 2000, there were 118 people, 41 households, and 31 families residing in the town. The population density was 70.1 people/km2 (182 people/mi2). There were 50 housing units at an average density of 29.7 units/km2 (77 units/mi2). The racial makeup of the town was 53.39% White, 45.76% Black or African American, 0.85% from other races.
There were 41 households, out of which 46.3% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 53.7% were married couples living together, 19.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 22.0% were non-families. 17.1% of all households were made up of individuals, and 4.9% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.88 and the average family size was 3.34.
In the town, the population was spread out, with 38.1% under the age of 18, 6.8% from 18 to 24, 26.3% from 25 to 44, 19.5% from 45 to 64, and 9.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 29 years. For every 100 females, there were 93.4 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 97.3 males.
The median income for a household in the town was $24,375, and the median income for a family was $28,750. Males had a median income of $19,583 versus $21,250 for females. The per capita income for the town was $8,634. There were 26.5% of families and 30.0% of the population living below the poverty line, including 31.8% of under eighteens and 72.7% of those over 64.


== Notable people ==
Actress and comedian Sasheer Zamata is the great-granddaughter of Leroy Mahon. This was discovered on the TV show Finding Your Roots with Henry Louis Gates Jr. which aired on January 7, 2020.


== References ==

George Holmes (c. 1680 – 1720) was an English organist and composer.


== Biography ==
Holmes was a chorister at Durham Cathedral from 1688 to 1694. He was domestic organist to the Bishop of Durham afterwards, in 1698, and as successor to Thomas Allison, became organist of Lincoln Cathedral in 1704–5. In 1707 he was appointed there one of the junior vicars; and also was master of the Company of Ringers of the Blessed Virgin Mary of Lincoln. Holmes died in Lincoln in 1720.


== Works ==
Several compositions of Holmes are preserved in the British Library and the Cathedral Library in Lichfield. They are considered to be "among the best examples of English church music composed outside the Chapel Royal in the period immediately following Purcell."


== See also ==
List of musicians at English cathedrals


== References ==

Aleksandra Apanovich (born December 6, 1969) is a Soviet sprint canoer who competed in the late 1980s. She won two bronze medals at the 1989 ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships in Plovdiv, earning them in the K-2 5000 m and K-4 500 m events.
Apanovich also finished fourth in the K-4 500 m event at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul.


== Bibliography ==
"ICF medalists for Olympic and World Championships – Part 1: flatwater (now sprint): 1936–2007" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on January 5, 2010. Retrieved May 12, 2019.
"ICF medalists for Olympic and World Championships – Part 2: rest of flatwater (now sprint) and remaining canoeing disciplines: 1936–2007" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 2009-11-09. Retrieved 2019-05-12.
Sports-reference.com profile

Jason Goldwatch (born September 1, 1976) is an American music video director and commercial director and self described "disrupter" who is a co-founder and Executive Creative Director of Decon / Mass Appeal creative agency and record label based in New York.


== Early life ==
Goldwatch was born in San Francisco, where he attended  San Francisco School of the Arts high school before attending the California Institute of the Arts. 
He worked at multiple production companies (including Satellite Films, where he was recruited by Spike Jonze) before touring with Dilated Peoples, Rage Against The Machine and Kanye West as a photographer and Documentarian. (Resisting the title "videographer.") 
He is best known for his directorial work with Kid Cudi, Pharrell Williams, Jay-Z, Tyler the Creator, Linkin Park, Mike Dean, Jay Electronica, Kendrick Lamar, Atmosphere, Travis Barker, Roc Marciano, Busta Rhymes, Grizelda, The Alchemist, Earl Sweatshirt, School Boy Q, Action Bronson Soul Assassins, and Dilated Peoples. 
In 2000, he partnered with Peter Bittenbender on a film entitled One Big Trip, which led to their founding of Decon in 2002. The accompanying soundtrack featured DJ Shadow, Heirogliphics, Space Time Contimum and Tranquillity Bass. Having received the "Soundtrack of the Year" from "HIGH TIMES" Magazine, he established the record label with Sony Music, "DECON RECORDS" with his business partner Peter Bittenbender. One of the most recognizable aspects about the music videos and short films by Goldwatch aside from the creative ingenuity and unpredictable psychedelic edge, is that he credits himself at the beginning of each of his works. He has said it was a decision he made early on to help establish his personal brand and also because people were already misspelling his name and he considered his films as not only commercially viable pieces but simultaneously "stand out works of art.".


== Selected videography ==


=== Music videos ===
Swollen Members – “Paradise Lost” 1994
Swollen Members – “Deep End” 1995
Aceyalone – “I Think” 1996
Kool Kieth – “Plastic World” 1998
Hieroglyphics – “Soweto” 2000
Linkin Park – “Enth E Nd” 2002
Aceyalone – “Give It Here” 2003
Loot Pack – “Whenimondamic” 2006
Loot Pack (feat. Quasimoto) – “20 Questions” 2006
Common and Sadat X feat. Talib Kweli – “1999” 2007
Jay-Z – “Pray” 2007
Aceyalone (feat. Chali 2na & Bionikc) – “Eazy” 2008
Dilated Peoples – “Worst Come To Worst” 2008
Dilated Peoples (feat. Defari) – “Third Degree” 2008
Dilated Peoples (feat. Erick Sermon) – "Platform Remix" 2008
Evidence – “Mr. Slow Flow” 2008
Ludacris – “Blueberry Yum Yum” 2008
Busta Rhymes (feat. Estelle) – “World Go Round,” 2009
Chali 2na (ft. Beenie Man) – “International,” 2009
Damian Marley – “One Loaf Of Bread” 2009
Dilated Peoples – “Work The Angels” 2009
Evidence – “For Whom The Bell Tolls” 2009
Evidence (feat. Defari) – "Don't Hate"
Kid Cudi – “Soundtrack 2 My Life” 2009
Plantlife – “Sumthin About Her” 2009
The Alchemist – “Smile” 2009
88 Keys feat. Kanye West - “Stay Up (Viagra),” 2009
Evidence – “To Be Continued,” 2010
Gangrene – “The Sickness,” 2010
Jay Electronica and Just Blaze – “Exhibit A” 2010
Jay Electronica – "Abracadabra" 2010
Jim Jones (feat. Rell) – “Blow Your Smoke” 2010
Kid Cudi – “Cudderisback” 2010
Kid Cudi – “Erase Me” 2010
Kid Cudi – “Mojo So Dope” 2010
Ninjasonik – “Bars” 2010
The Roots – “Dear God 2.0” 2010
Jay Electronica – “Dimethyltryptamine” 2011
Nas – “Nasty” 2011
Pusha T (feat. Tyler The Creator) – “Trouble On My Mind" 2011
Pusha T – “What Dreams Are Made Of” 2011
Rakaa (feat. Aloe Blacc) – “Crown Of Thorns” 2011
The Alchemist (feat. Danny Brown and Schoolboy Q)  – “Flight Confirmation” 2011
Alexander Spit (feat. Bago) – “A Breathtaking Trip” 2012
Gangrene – “Vodka & Ayahuasca” 2012
Roc Marciano – “76” 2012
Travis Barker and Yelawolf –“Push Em” 2012
Jay Electronica - "Time Pieces" 2012
Action Bronson – “Strictly For My Jeeps,” 2013
Gangrene – “Take Drugs” 2013
Step Brothers – “Step Masters” 2013
The White Mandingos – “The Ghetto Is Tryna Kill Me” 2013
Schoolboy Q – “Break The Bank” 2014
The Alchemist – “Shut The Fuck Up” 2014
Gangrene (feat. Action Bronson) – “Driving Gloves” 2015
Gangrene (feat. Sean Price and Havoc) – “Sheet Music” 2015
Gangrene – “The Last Great Disgrace” 2015
Loudpvck – “Lit” 2015
Code Cut Crew – "Terrible Teddy” 2016
Code Cut Crew – "Planes" 2016
Invisibl Skratch Piklz – “Fresh Out Of Fucks” 2016
Travis Barker And Yelawolf – "Out Of Control” 2016
Blink 182 – “Home Is Such A Lonely Place” 2017
Evidence – “Jim Dean” 2017
Evidence – "Start The Day With A Beat" 2017
Evidence (feat. Slug) – “Powder Cocaine”  2018
The Alchemist (feat. Earl Sweatshirt) – “E Coli” 2018
The Alchemist (feat. Conway, Schoolboy Q and Westside Gun) – “Fork In The Pot” 2018
Atmosphere – “Graffiti” 2018
Atmosphere – “Virgo” 2018
Cypress Hill (feat. Sick Jacken) – “Locos” 2018
J Critch and Harry Fraud – “Thousand Ways” 2018
Nas x Dave East x Lin Manuel Miranda and Aloe Blacc – “Hamilton” 2018
Everlast – “The Cull” 2018
Everlast – “Dream State” 2019
Coolkids – “Dipped” 2019
Evidence – “The Factory” 2019
DJ Premier (feat Westside Gunn, Conway and Benny) – "Headlines" 2019
Nas – “War Against Love” 2019
Atmosphere – (The Day Before Halloween) : “Where The Road Forks,” “Space is Safe,” “She Loves My Not,” “The New People,” “The Future Is Disgusting,” “DoubleTown,” “Stardust,” “Blotter Acid Reflux Syndrome,” “Party Crashers,” “Sleep Apnea,” 2020
Bam Marley – “Fight Your Fears” 2020
Boldy James and The Alchemist – “Slow Roll” 2020
Brother Ali – “Greatest That Never Lived” 2020
Conway The Machine and The Alchemist – “Calvin” 2020
Everlast – “Slow Your Roll” 2020
Roc Marciano – “Downtown 81” 2020
The Alchemist (feat. Westside Gun) – “Blank Canvas” 2020
The Alchemist (feat. Westside Gun) – “Stained Glass” 2020
Travis Barker and Run The Jewels – “Forever" 2020
B-Real (feat. Berner) – “Number 9” 2021
Evidence – “Start The Day With A Beat” 2021
Kid Cudi – “Solo Dolo Pt III” 2021
Nas – “40-16 Building” 2021
The Alchemist and Born x Raised – “Carry The Fire,” 2021
Westside Gun (feat. Freddie Gibbs and Roc Marciano) – “$500 Ounces” 2022
Action Bronson – “Spirit Crocodile” 2022
Roc Marciano and The Alchemist (feat. Ice T) – “ The Horns of Abraxas” 2022
Kid Cudi – "I'll What I Bleed" 2023
Kid Cudi – "SuperBoy" 2023
The Alchemist (feat. Gangrene) – "Royal Hand" 2023
B-Real – "That One" 2024
The Alchemist – "Seasons Change" 2024
Gangrene – "Watch Out" 2024
Gangrene – "Oxnard Water Torture" 2024
Roc Marciano (feat. The Alchemist) - "Street Magic" 2024
B-Real x Psycho Les (Ft. Stephen Carpenter) "Lyrical Hammers" 2024
Lord Sko " Stubborn" 2024
B-Real (feat. Psycho Les) - "You Might Know Us" 2025
Amanda Reifer "R U Dumb" 2025
Lord Sko "Cigarette Butts"  2025
Lord Sko "Problem Child" 2025
Lord Sko and Currency "Understand" 2025
Lord Sko "Randy Moss" 2025


=== Commercials ===
Motor Trend "Gen
Square Space with Eric Ripert
Patron with Chef Marcus Samuelsson
Converse "Chuck Test"
"Break Through" with FUTURA 2000 and Sprite
Mega Millions
Absolute Vodka
Kia Cadenza
Tuft and Needle
Mercedes Benz "Socially Driven"
Toyota "Music in Motion" with Jay Electronica
Toyota "Music in Motion"  with Dougie Fresh
7 up with Sir Mix-A-Lot
ChapStick
Dutch Masters "Burn Slow" Los Angeles
Google Glass Campaign with Young Guru and  Roy Choi
Malibu Rum
Microsoft Zune campaign
Teva - "The Naturist" and "Teva Life Agents"
Sony Ericsson - "Girl What's Up?"
Shakira - "She Wolf" online video campaign
Kübler Absinthe online campaign
Eminem - "Relapse" web shorts


=== Long Form ===
"One Big Trip" (2002)
”Revenge of the Robots” (2003) – Def Jux documentary
The Neptunes Presents "Clones" 2003
"Ludacris" Red Light District (2004)
"Ice Cream: Vol. 1" (2006)
"Dilated Peoples: The Release Party" (2007)
”A Billion Bucks” (2010) – Documentary about Young Buck
"Into The Light" Jay Electronica Documentary (2010)
"A Million in the Morning" (2010)
"The Journey of Mr. Rager" (2010) - Documentary about Kid Cudi
"Time Alone" (2013)
"Cycles" with The Alchemist (2018)
"Death Valley" (2024) - Short film accompanying DJ Muggs's Soul Assassins third album "Death Valley"
"424" Mike Dean (2024)


=== Television ===
Avec Eric 2009 (Emmy Nominated for Outstanding Directing in Lifestyle and Travel)
Nas "Illmatic" With The National Symphony Orchestra


== References ==

Julie McClemens is a Canadian actress and comedian. She has acted on radio, stage and TV and in film. She won a Prix Gémeaux in 2002 for best actress in a drama, followed by another in 2004 for best supporting actress in a drama.


== Early life and education ==

McClemens was born on 26 September 1969. She is of Irish descent through her father. She was a native of Jonquiere and studied ballet before attending Collège Lionel-Groulx, a sixth-form college, where she majored in theatre. She obtained her diploma in 1990.


== Career ==
After graduating, she starred in two short films and joined the touring cast of the play  Tu Peux Toujours Danser (You Can Always Dance). Her first TV role was as Cecile in 1992 in the TV series Ville Ouverte.
In 1995, McClemens starred on stage in Claude Poissant's production of Marivaux's Le Triomphe de l'Amour (Triumph of Love). In 1996, McClemens played the publisher, Dawn, in The Passage from Indiana (1996) at the Théâtre du Nouveau Monde (New World Theatre) and the Ubu Theatre.
McClemens also played Marie for three seasons on the popular TV show La vie, la vie on Radio-Canada from 2001 to 2002. In 2004, she played opposite Pascale Montpetit in Claude Poissant's La Fausse Suivante and the Théâtre du Nouveau Monde.
In 2016, McClemens played the mother of The Boy with the Vanishing Face at La Licorne Theatre (Théâtre La Licorne).
McClemens played Madame Pin-Pon in the children's play Le bain over 150 times.


== Critical reception ==

Of her turn in Passage de l'Indiana (1996) at the Théâtre du Nouveau Monde and the Ubu Theatre, La Nouvelliste noted that she was "slightly overshadowed" by the other two actors; her performance was "more subdued..[but] no less interesting".
Of her performance in Claude Poissant's La Fausse Suivante, Le Devoir called it "Lively and graceful, Julie McClemens proves...to be the one who best masters Marivaux's brilliant language: her delicate, ethereal delivery highlights both the intentions and all the subtlety."
The Gazette called her a "revelation" in the TV series Ville Ouverte "Exuberant, spirited..., Cécile heats up the story whenever it focuses on her."


== Awards and honours ==
1993 - Newcomer of the Year by the Association of Theatre Critics for the role of Hortense in Le Prince travesti
2002 - Prix Gémeaux for best actress in a drama for her role as Marie in La vie, la vie
2004 - Prix Gémeaux for best supporting actress in a drama for her role as Stéphanie Ferron in Grande Ourse
2005 - Aubagne International Film Festival Meilleure for best actress in short film for her role as Pascale in Un ange passe


== Filmography ==
Luc Picard
The United States of Albert [Les États-Unis d'Albert] (2005)
Arwad (2013)


== References ==


== External links ==
Julie McClemens at IMDb

Frances Stokes Berry is an American political scientist, public administration scholar, academic, and author. She is the Reubin O’D. Askew Eminent Scholar and the Frank Sherwood Professor of Public Administration at the Askew School of Public Administration and Policy at Florida State University.
Berry has published papers and books on topics related to public administration, policy diffusion, and innovation in public management. She is best known for her work exploring the drivers of the adoption of policies and innovations in the public sector. Her research on state-level lottery, strategic planning, and tax policy adoptions has been cited thousands of times. She is also a prominent scholar working on E-democracy, or the uses information and communication technology in political and governance processes. In recognition of her contributions to the fields of political science and public administration, Frances Berry was selected for the John Gaus Award by the American Political Science Association in 2022. In her Gaus Award lecture, Berry (2023, p. 336) stressed that, "Political science and public management scholars learned from one another but have more to learn."
Berry is a fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration. She also received the H. George Frederickson Award from the Public Research Management Association (PMRA). The H. George Frederickson Award honors a senior scholar for career contributions to the field of public management.  Exemplary contributions include, but are not limited to, adding to the intellectual development of the field and building professional capital (e.g., journal development and other means of sharing PM scholarship and information) related to public management research. In 2014, she was given the Distinguished Research Award (2013), a joint award from American Society for Public Administration (ASPA), and the National Association of Schools of Public Administration and Policy (NASPAA), awarded annually to one scholar whose work has made a significant impact on the field of public administration.


== Education and early career ==
Berry studied at Washington University in St. Louis and received her bachelor's degree in political science in 1974. Following her undergraduate studies, she obtained two master's degrees from the University of Minnesota. One in political science in 1977 and the other in public affairs in 1979. After earning these degrees, Berry briefly worked as a lecturer at the University of Kentucky before spending more than a decade with the Council of State Governments in various roles including serving as the associate director of the Productivity Research Center, Director of the Center for Health and Regulation, and Director of Division of Associated Programs and Leadership Development. During her work with the Council of State Governments, Berry continued her graduate studies and earned a Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota in 1988.


== Academic career ==
In 1990 Berry joined the Askew School of Public Administration and Policy at Florida State University as an associate professor. Eight years later Berry was promoted to Professor and began serving as the MPA director. From 2003 to 2009, Berry was the Director of the Askew School. As a Fulbright scholar in 2009, she worked in Taiwan. Since 2014, Berry has been the Reubin O’D. Askew Eminent Scholar and the Frank Sherwood Professor of Public Administration in the Askew School of Public Administration and Policy at Florida State University.


== Awards and honors ==
2006 – Fellow, National Academy of Public Administration
2009 - Visiting Fulbright Scholar, National Taipei University
2013 Distinguished Research Award, ASPA/NASPAA
2014-2018 - Distinguished Visiting professor, National Taipei University
2016 - Delivered Donald Stone Lecture, American Society for Public Administration (ASPA)
2018 - The H. George Frederickson Award, Public Management Research Association
2022 - John Gaus Award, American Political Science Association (APSA)


== Bibliography ==


=== Books ===
International Handbook of Practice-Based Performance Management (2007) ISBN 9781412940122. Authors: Patria de Lancer Julnes, Frances Stokes Berry, Maria P. Aristigueta, and Kaifeng Yang


=== Selected articles ===
Berry, F.S.; Berry, W.D. (1990). State lottery adoptions as policy innovations: An event history analysis. American Political Science Review, 84(2): 395–415. doi:10.2307/1963526
Berry, F.S.; Berry, W.D. (1992). Tax Innovation in the States: Capitalizing on Political Opportunity. American Journal of Politics, 36(3): 715–742. doi:10.2307/2111588
Berry, F.S.; Berry, W.D. (2018). Innovation and Diffusion Models in Policy Research in Theories of the Policy Process. IBSN: 9780429494284
Berry, F.S. (2023). Finding Common Ground: Innovation and Diffusion across Political Science and Public Management Research. PS: Political Science & Politics, 56(3): 329 - 338. doi: 10.1017/S1049096523000112


== References ==

The naked mole-rat (Heterocephalus glaber), also known as the sand puppy, is a burrowing rodent native to the Horn of Africa and parts of Kenya, notably in Somali regions. It is the only species in the genus Heterocephalus.
The naked mole-rat exhibits a highly unusual set of physiological and behavioural traits that allow it to thrive in a harsh underground environment, most notably its being the only mammalian thermoconformer with an almost entirely ectothermic (cold-blooded) form of body temperature regulation, as well as exhibiting eusociality, a complex social structure including a reproductive division of labour, separation of reproductive and non-reproductive castes, and cooperative care of young. The closely related Damaraland mole-rat (Fukomys damarensis) is the only other known eusocial mammal. Naked mole-rats lack pain sensitivity in their skin, and have very low metabolic and respiratory rates. The animal is also remarkable for its longevity and resistance to cancer and oxygen deprivation.
Although closely related to the blesmols, more recent investigation places it in a separate, exclusive family, Heterocephalidae, and no longer in the same family as other African mole-rats, Bathyergidae.


== Description ==
Typical naked mole-rat individuals are 8 to 10 cm (3 to 4 in) long and weigh 30 to 35 grams (1.1 to 1.2 oz). Breeding females are larger and may weigh well over 50 grams (1.8 oz), the largest reaching 80 grams (2.8 oz). They are well adapted to their underground existence. Their eyes are quite small, and their visual acuity is poor. Their legs are thin and short; however, they are highly adept at moving underground and can move backward as fast as they can move forward. Their large, protruding teeth are used to dig and their lips are sealed just behind the teeth, preventing soil from filling their mouths while digging. About a quarter of their musculature is used in the closing of their jaws while they dig. They have little hair (hence the common name) and wrinkled pink or yellowish skin. They lack an insulating layer in the skin.


== Physiology ==


=== Metabolism and respiration ===
The naked mole-rat is well adapted to the limited availability of oxygen within the tunnels of its typical habitat. It has underdeveloped lungs and its hemoglobin has a high affinity for oxygen, increasing the efficiency of oxygen uptake. It has a very low respiration and metabolic rate for an animal of its size, about 70% that of a mouse, thus using oxygen minimally. In response to long periods of hunger, its metabolic rate can be reduced by up to 25 percent.
The naked mole-rat survives for at least five hours in air that contains only 5% oxygen; it does not show any significant signs of distress and continues normal activity. It can live in an atmosphere of 80% CO2 and 20% oxygen. In zero-oxygen atmosphere, it can survive 18 minutes apparently without suffering any harm (but none survived a test of 30 minutes). During the anoxic period it loses consciousness, its heart rate drops from about 200 to 50 beats per minute, and breathing stops apart from sporadic breathing attempts. When deprived of oxygen, the animal uses fructose in its anaerobic glycolysis, producing lactic acid. This pathway is not inhibited by acidosis as happens with glycolysis of glucose. As of 2017, it was not known how the naked mole-rat survives acidosis without tissue damage. Naked mole-rats choose hypoxic environments over normoxic air when given a choice, behaviour not commonly observed among mammals.


=== Thermoregulation ===
The naked mole-rat does not regulate its body temperature in typical mammalian fashion. They are thermoconformers rather than thermoregulators in that, unlike other mammals, body temperature tracks ambient temperatures. The relationship between oxygen consumption and ambient temperature switches from a typical poikilothermic pattern to a homeothermic mode when temperature is at 29 °C (84 °F) or higher. At lower temperatures, naked mole-rats can use behavioural thermoregulation. For example, cold naked mole-rats huddle together or seek shallow parts of the burrows that are warmed by the sun. Conversely, when they get too hot, naked mole-rats retreat to the deeper, cooler parts of the burrows.


=== Pain insensitivity ===
The skin of naked mole-rats lacks neurotransmitters in their cutaneous sensory fibres. As a result, the naked mole-rats feel no pain when they are exposed to acid or capsaicin. When they are injected with substance P, a type of neurotransmitter, the pain signaling works as it does in other mammals but only with capsaicin and not with acids. This is proposed to be an adaptation to the animal living in high levels of carbon dioxide due to poorly ventilated living spaces which would cause acid to build up in their body tissues.
Naked mole-rats' substance P deficiency has also been tied to their lack of the histamine-induced itching and scratching behaviour typical of rodents.


=== Resistance to cancer ===
Naked mole-rats have a high resistance to tumours, although it is likely that they are not entirely immune to related disorders. A potential mechanism that averts cancer is an "over-crowding" gene, p16, which prevents cell division once individual cells come into contact (known as "contact inhibition"). The cells of most mammals, including naked mole-rats, undergo contact inhibition via p27, a gene which prevents cellular reproduction at a much higher cell density than p16 does. The combination of p16 and p27 in naked mole-rat cells is a double barrier to uncontrolled cell proliferation, one of the hallmarks of cancer.
In 2013, scientists reported that the reason naked mole-rats seem to be able to avoid cancer can be attributed to an "extremely high-molecular-mass hyaluronan" (HMW-HA) (a natural sugary substance), which is over "five times larger" than that in cancer-prone humans and cancer-susceptible laboratory animals. The scientific report was published a month later as the cover story of the journal Nature. A few months later, the same University of Rochester research team announced that naked mole-rats have ribosomes that produce extremely error-free proteins. Because of both of these discoveries, the journal Science named the naked mole-rat "Vertebrate of the Year" for 2013.
In 2016, a report was published that recorded the first ever discovered malignancies in two naked mole-rats. However, both animals were captive-born at zoos, and hence lived in an environment with 21% atmospheric oxygen compared to their natural 2–9%, which may have promoted tumourigenesis.
The Golan Heights blind mole-rat (Spalax golani) and the Judean Mountains blind mole-rat (Spalax judaei) are also resistant to cancer, but by a different mechanism.
In July 2023 a study reported the transference of the gene responsible for HMW-HA from a naked mole rat to mice leading to improved health and an approximate 4.4 percent increase in median lifespan for the mice.


=== Longevity ===
Naked mole-rats can live longer than any other rodent, with lifespans in excess of 37 years; the next longest-lived rodent is the African porcupine at 28 years. The mortality rate of the species does not increase with age, and thus does not conform to that of most mammals (as frequently defined by the Gompertz-Makeham law of mortality). Naked mole-rats are highly resistant to cancer, and maintain healthy vascular function longer in their lifespan than shorter-living rats. Queens age more slowly than nonbreeders.
The mechanisms underlying naked mole-rat longevity are debated, but are thought to be related to their ability to substantially reduce their metabolism in response to adverse conditions, and so prevent aging-induced damage from oxidative stress. This has been referred to as "living their life in pulses". Their longevity has also been attributed to "protein stability". Because of their extraordinary longevity, an international effort was put into place to sequence the genome of the naked mole-rat. A draft genome was made available in 2011 with an improved version released in 2014. Its somatic number is 2n = 60. Further transcriptome sequencing revealed that genes related to mitochondria and oxidation reduction are expressed more than they are in mice, which may contribute to their longevity.
The DNA repair transcriptomes of the liver of humans, naked mole-rats, and mice were compared. The maximum lifespans of humans, naked mole-rats, and mice are respectively c. 120, 30 and 3 years. The longer-lived species, humans and naked mole-rats, expressed DNA repair genes, including core genes in several DNA repair pathways, at a higher level than did mice. In addition, several DNA repair pathways in humans and naked mole-rats were up-regulated compared with mice. These findings suggest that increased DNA repair facilitates greater longevity, and also are consistent with the DNA damage theory of aging.


=== Size ===
Reproducing females become the dominant female, usually by founding new colonies, fighting for the dominant position, or taking over once the reproducing female dies. These reproducing females tend to have longer bodies than that of their non-reproducing counterparts of the same skull width. The measurements of females before and after they became reproductive show significant increases in body size. It is believed that this trait does not occur due to pre-existing morphological differences but to the actual attainment of the dominant female position. As with the reproductive females, the reproductive males also appear to be larger than their non-reproducing counterparts but the difference is smaller than in females. These males also have visible outlines of the testes through the skin of their abdomens. Unlike the females, there are usually multiple reproducing males.


=== Chronobiology ===
The naked mole-rat's subterranean habitat imposes constraints on its circadian rhythm. Living in constant darkness, most individuals possess a free-running activity pattern and are active both day and night, sleeping for short periods several times in between. However, colonies do not exhibit synchrony in circadian sleep-wake cycles.


== Ecology and behaviour ==


=== Distribution and habitat ===
The naked mole-rat is native to the drier parts of the tropical grasslands of East Africa, predominantly southern Ethiopia, Kenya, and Somalia.


=== Roles ===

The naked mole-rat was the first mammal found to be eusocial. The Damaraland mole-rat (Fukomys damarensis) is the only other eusocial mammal currently known.
The social structure of naked mole-rats is similar to that of ants, termites, and some bees and wasps. Only one female (the queen) and one to three males reproduce, while the rest of the members of the colony function as workers. The queen and breeding males are able to breed at one year of age. Workers are sociologically but not physiologically sterile. Smaller workers focus on gathering food and maintaining the nest, while larger workers are the tunnelers, and are the most reactive to threats. The non-reproducing females appear to be reproductively suppressed, meaning the ovaries do not fully mature, and do not have the same levels of certain hormones as the reproducing females. By contrast, there is little difference of hormone concentration between reproducing and non-reproducing males. In experiments where the reproductive female was removed or died, one of the non-reproducing females would take over and become sexually active. Non-reproducing members of the colony cooperate to care for the pups produced by the queen (usually their mother or sister). Workers keep the pups from straying out of the nest, groom the pups, and snuggle to keep them warm, extend tunnels in search of food, bring food to the nest, and defend pups from attacks by predators and foreign colonies.


==== Queen and gestation ====
The relationships between the queen and the breeding males may last for many years; other females are temporarily sterile. Queens live from 13 to 18 years, and are extremely hostile to other females that attempt to exert physical dominance, or that produce hormones associated with becoming queens. When the queen dies, another female takes her place, often after a violent struggle with her competitors. Once established, the new queen's body expands the space between the vertebrae in her backbone to become longer and ready to bear pups. 
In the wild, naked mole-rats usually breed once a year, if the litter survives. In captivity, they breed all year long and can produce a litter every 80 days. Gestation lasts about 70 days. Litter size is typically 3 to 12 pups; the average litter size is 11–12. The young are born blind and weigh about 2 grams (0.07 oz). The queen nurses them for the first month, after which the other members of the colony feed them faecal pap until they are old enough to eat solid food.
In most female mammals the number of mammae is about double the average litter size. Presumably this enables females to successfully nurse litters even if some mammae fail to produce milk. Naked mole-rats break this "one-half rule"; field caught and lab born litters averaged 11 to 12 pups, and numbers of mammae on both wild and captive females were similarly 11 to 12. Maximum litter sizes were 28 in the field and 27 in captivity, whereas the maximum number of mammae was 15. Breeding female naked mole-rats can bear and successfully rear litters that are far more numerous than their mammae because young take turns nursing from the same mammary, and breeding females and pups are fed and protected by colony mates, enabling queens to concentrate their reproductive efforts on gestation and lactation.


==== Workers ====
The queen is the most active member of a colony, and she induces workers to increase their activities by repeatedly shoving them.  Smaller workers focus on acquiring food and maintaining tunnels, while the larger workers react strongly to disturbances. As in honey bees, the workers are divided along a continuum of different worker-caste behaviour instead of being in discrete groups. Larger workers function primarily as tunnellers, expanding the large network of tunnels within the burrow system, ejecting earth excavated during tunneling onto the ground surface, and as soldiers, protecting the group from outside predators. Smaller workers perform colony maintenance tasks such as foraging, nest building, and pup care. Workers that find new food sources (tubers) in their vast subterranean burrow systems give a special call on their way back to the nest and wave the food around once they get there. Recruits find the new site by following an odour trail left by the initial scout, behaviour somewhat analogous to trail deposition and following by ants and termites.


==== Dispersers ====
Inbreeding is common among naked mole-rats within a colony. This results in colony members being extremely closely related, which in turn favours nepotism among non-breeders toward siblings. However, prolonged inbreeding is usually associated with lower fitness. The discovery of male and female dispersers has revealed that there is a mechanism of inter-colony outbreeding. Dispersers are morphologically, physiologically and behaviourally distinct from colony members and actively seek to leave their burrow when an escape opportunity presents itself. These individuals are equipped with generous fat reserves for their journey. Though they possess high levels of luteinising hormone, dispersers are only interested in mating with individuals from foreign colonies rather than their own colony's queen. They also show little interest in working cooperatively with colony members in their natal burrow. Hence, disperser morphs are well-prepared to promote the establishment of new, initially outbred colonies, before cycles of inbreeding resume.


==== Colonies ====
Colonies average 75-80 individuals, but may contain more than 300, and their tunnel systems can stretch 3 to 5 kilometres (1.9 to 3.1 mi) in cumulative length.
Laboratory colonies are xenophobic, and will attack and kill invaders from different colonies. Likewise, wild colonies sometimes expand their territories by invading neighboring colonies. Invaders may kidnap small pups and incorporate them into their own colony's workforce, an intriguing convergence with the behaviour of slave-making ants.


=== Female mate choice ===
In lab experiments, reproductively active female naked mole rats tended to associate with unfamiliar males (usually non-kin) when given a choice, whereas reproductively inactive females did not discriminate. The preference of queens for unfamiliar males likely is an adaptation to reduce inbreeding; however, within established colonies queens rarely have opportunities to express such preferences. Evolutionarily, outbreeding may be preferred because it reduces the likelihood of expressing deleterious recessive alleles, whereas inbreeding results in closer genetic relationships among naked mole-rat families, favouring self-sacrificial and nepotistic behaviour.


=== Diet ===

Naked mole-rats feed primarily on very large tubers (weighing as much as a thousand times the body weight of a typical mole-rat) that they find deep underground through their mining operations. A single tuber can provide a colony with a long-term source of food, lasting for months, or even years, as they eat the inside but leave the outside, allowing the tuber to regenerate. Symbiotic bacteria in the mole-rats' intestines ferment the fibres, allowing otherwise indigestible cellulose to be turned into volatile fatty acids.
Naked mole-rats sometimes also eat their own faeces. This behaviour not only nourishes pups post-weaning but also is part of their eusocial behaviour, a mechanism of sharing and assessing hormones from the queen.


=== Predators ===
Naked mole rats are primarily preyed upon by snakes, especially the rufous beaked snake and Kenyan sand boa, as well as honey badgers and various raptors. They are at their most vulnerable when ejecting soil to the surface ("volcanoing").


== Conservation status ==
Naked mole-rats are not threatened. They are widespread and numerous, but, being subterranean, they are essentially unnoticeable in the drier regions of East Africa (except for their small "volcanoes" of ejected earth).


== In popular culture ==
Kim Possibles sidekick Ron Stoppables pet Rufus is a naked mole rat.


== References ==


== Further reading ==


== External links ==

View the hetGla2 genome assembly in the UCSC Genome Browser

Operation Nifty Package was a United States Delta Force and Navy SEAL-operated plan conducted in 1989 designed to capture the de facto ruler of Panama Manuel Noriega who ruled through puppet presidents. When Noriega took refuge in the Apostolic Nunciature of the Holy See (diplomatic quarter), deafening music and other psychological warfare tactics were used to convince him to exit and surrender himself.
The United States claimed that after ten days of psychological harassment, the Papal Nuncio (ambassador) Monsignor Laboa had threatened to revoke Noriega's sanctuary if he didn't surrender to the United States, although Laboa insisted that he had made no threats of revoking the right of asylum under the Church, but had used his own "precisely calibrated psychological campaign" to force Noriega's departure.
Although the operation was successful, Brent Scowcroft, National Security Advisor, would later point to the psychological harassment of the Papal Nuncio as "a low moment in U.S. Army history", noting that their approach had been silly, reproachable, and undignified.


== Military operation ==

Launched in the starting hours of Operation Just Cause, this operation was handled by SEAL Team 4. Consisting of 48 U.S. Navy SEALs (three SEAL Platoons; Golf, Bravo, and Delta) under the command of Lt. Cmdr. Patrick Toohey (executive officer of Team 4 and former SEAL Team Six officer), this team was tasked with destroying Noriega's private jet (a 1980 Learjet 35 registered N930GL; serial 35A-330) on the ground at the Punta Paitilla Airport, a coastal airport in Panama City. The main force of SEALs landed just south of the airport at approximately 0030, shortly before the initial combat operations started within Panama City itself. Several reconnaissance teams were hidden on the north side of the airfield to provide real-time data on enemy movements. Once the SEALs landed, Lt. Cmdr. Toohey established a command post near the southern edge of the runway. At this time Cmdr. McGrath, a SEAL officer stationed on a patrol boat offshore coordinating several operations, passed on information implying that the aircraft was to be disabled with "minimal damage" (defined as shot out tires and cut control wires), rather than destroyed. This later became a point of controversy after the operation, as the message was poorly worded and forced the SEALs to change their tactics at the last minute and approach the aircraft more closely than anticipated.
The three platoons then began advancing up the airfield, with Golf platoon taking up final assaulting positions outside the hangar at roughly 0105. At this point, Lt. Cmdr. Toohey received a message stating that PDF V300 Cadillac Gage Commando armored cars were heading towards the airport. To counter the threat, a squad (Squad One of Golf Platoon) was ordered to move into ambush positions on a nearby road. As they stood up to move, the PDF soldiers stationed in the airfield immediately opened fire, killing two SEALs and wounding five others. The other two platoons moved to reinforce Golf, and within several minutes had secured the hangars, with two more SEALs killed and four more wounded. The SEALs then disabled Noriega's private plane by shooting it with an AT4 anti-tank weapon. Shortly after, a MEDEVAC helicopter arrived and transported the injured SEALs to the Joint Casualty Collection Point at Howard Air Force Base. The SEALs held the area throughout the night, and disabled the runway for use by any PDF transport planes by rolling other aircraft onto it. The next day, the SEALs were replaced by a company from the 75th Ranger Regiment. Due to the high level of casualties sustained and several inconsistencies regarding planning and command and control during the battle, the Battle of Paitilla Airport is considered one of the most controversial operations within Operation Just Cause from the U.S. Military perspective.
During the Paitilla Airfield operation, another Navy SEAL group from SEAL Team 2, consisting of four divers and men on Zodiac inflatable boats, was assigned to conduct a combat swimmer attack and sabotage Noriega's heavily armed gunboat, Presidente Porras, a 65-foot (20 m) aluminum gunboat built in 1982 in Louisiana by Swiftships, while it was tied to a pier on the canal. The plan called for the divers (Lieutenant Edward Coughlin, Chief Electronics Technician Randy Beausoleil, Engineman 3rd Class Timothy K. Eppley, and Photographer's Mate 2nd Class Christopher Dye) to plant explosives on the bottom of the boat, using Dräger rebreathers, which do not give off exhalation bubbles, for added secrecy. The divers were transported by several combat rubber raiding craft to an insertion point located in a grove of mangrove trees roughly one hundred and fifty yards (140 m) away from the target. The divers entered the water and approached the boat in separate pairs, attached the explosives, and began exfiltrating. As they were leaving, several PDF guards began dropping grenades and shooting into the water, forcing the SEALs to take cover under the pier. Due to this diversion, the divers were still in the area when the bombs went off, and were able to confirm that the boat was destroyed. As the divers were heading back to the rendezvous point, they heard a large ship approaching overhead and were forced to descend to forty feet (12 m) which was dangerous due to the increased toxicity of the pure oxygen used in the Draeger at greater pressures. However, no divers experienced any ill effects, and both pairs were picked up by several raiding craft, and were transported back to Rodman Naval Base.


== Encircling the Apostolic Nunciature of the Holy See ==
On the fifth day of the American invasion, Noriega phoned Monsignor Laboa at the Apostolic Nunciature and explained he would appreciate being able to seek sanctuary within; noting that he would otherwise have to flee to the countryside and wage a guerrilla war. Given only ten minutes to decide, Laboa said he did not confer with the Vatican, but agreed to allow Noriega to enter the Nunciature grounds – although from the very start, he confessed that he deceived Noriega, noting that he believed that Panamanian politics necessitated that his own role be to convince Noriega to surrender to the American army, not to grant him asylum within Vatican territory. Laboa later confided he was "surprised and dismayed" that Noriega would choose to seek refuge with the Church.
Noriega fled to the Apostolic Nunciature, the de facto embassy of the Holy See, and took refuge there with four others: Lieutenant Colonel Nivaldo Madrinan, head of Panama's secret police; Captain Eliecer Gaitan, who led the special force charged with protecting Noriega; Belgica de Castillo, the former head of the immigration department; and her husband Carlos Castillo. He turned over the majority of his weapons, and requested sanctuary within. He spent his time in a "stark" room with no air conditioning or television, reading the Bible for the duration of his stay.
American soldiers set up a perimeter outside this building, as any direct action against the embassy itself would have violated international diplomatic law.
United States Secretary of State James Baker wrote to the Vatican, insisting that "this is an exception to diplomatic immunity. We've indicted him as a drug dealer...you must understand that having lost American lives to restore democracy in Panama, we cannot allow Noriega to go to any other country than the United States."
Joaquin Navarro-Valls, speaking on behalf of the Vatican, clarified that the strong messages left by American diplomats and military leaders would not be obeyed and Noriega would not be turned over. Navarro-Valls clarified that Pope John Paul II had not spoken on the issue except to lament the deaths caused by "absurd imprudence".
The U.S. Army turned to psychological warfare, blaring disturbing chicken noises at "deafening levels", gunning the engines of armored vehicles against the Nunciature's fence, and setting fire to a neighboring field and bulldozing it to create a "helicopter landing zone". Reportedly the version of the song  "I Fought the Law" performed by The Clash was played repeatedly along with "You Shook Me All Night Long" by AC/DC and "Welcome to the Jungle" by Guns N' Roses; other songs in the line-up were "Too Old To Rock 'N' Roll" by Jethro Tull, "Panama" by Van Halen, and "Never Gonna Give You Up" by Rick Astley.
On 27 December, the psychological warfare was turned over to the control of the 4th Psychological Operations Group of Special Operations Command. The Holy See complained to President George H. W. Bush about actions of the American soldiers surrounding the embassy, and after three days, the rock music was stopped.
On 30 December, the Vatican clarified that it did not believe Noriega had asylum, "but [was] a person in refuge". Meanwhile, Monsignor Laboa petitioned both Panama and the Vatican to agree to extend the embassy property to include another building where he had Noriega's four companions moved to prevent them from encouraging Noriega to stay under Vatican sanctuary, allowing him to convince Noriega to leave. A friend of Laboa later told the UPI that Laboa wanted to "go to work on Noriega, weave a sort of spell around him until he gives in".


== Surrender ==
After ten days of demoralization, Monsignor Jose Sebastian Laboa told Noriega that he had no choice but to surrender to the American soldiers at the front gate. Time magazine later noted that Monsignor Laboa was not entirely honest with Noriega, falsely telling him that no country in the world was willing to grant him refuge. Monsignor Laboa had also written to the US Army, granting his permission for them to storm the property if they believed his life was in danger. Eventually, Monsignor Laboa said that if Noriega did not surrender to the Americans, the Papal staff would evacuate the building, move into a Catholic high school and declare it the new embassy – leaving Noriega alone in the abandoned building to face the Americans without any benefit of Vatican sanctuary.
Noriega asked permission to phone his wife and three daughters, who had taken refuge in the Cuban embassy. He was assured that they would be flown to exile in the Dominican Republic if he surrendered.
On 3 January, Noriega attended Holy Mass in the Nuncio's chapel and took communion; where Laboa's homily was about the thief on the cross who in one moment asked God to change his life, and reportedly brought tears to Noriega's eyes.
After Mass, Noriega retired to his room where he wrote two letters, one to his wife informing her "I go now on an adventure", and the other thanking the Pope and stressing that he believed himself innocent and that he had always acted in the best interests of the Panamanian people and requesting the Pope's prayers. 
Noriega surrendered on January 3, 1990. That day, he dressed in his tan uniform, receiving permission to bring the Nuncio's Bible with him, and went outside into the dark night with three priests who walked with him the fifty paces to the front gate; when he reached the front gate, an American paratrooper named Sgt. Scott Geist confronted Noriega and described him as "a broken man". A number of other soldiers then forced him to the ground and began searching his effects. His wrists were taped behind his back, and was immediately put on an MC-130E Combat Talon I aircraft, which took him to Howard Air Force Base.
Monsignor Laboa later told the press that he was proud at having "outwitted" Noriega and convincing him to surrender himself to the Americans, noting "I'm better at psychology".


== In popular culture ==
In the 1998 film Small Soldiers, the psychological tactics of the operation are mentioned by individuals being attacked by toy soldiers that are loudly playing "Wannabe" by the Spice Girls.


== See also ==
Manhunt (military)
Death of Pablo Escobar
Capture of Saddam Hussein
Capture of Abimael Guzmán
Capture of Nicolas Maduro


== References ==

Delicate Arch is a 52-foot-tall (16 m) freestanding natural arch located in Arches National Park, near Moab in Grand County, Utah, United States. The arch is the most widely recognized landmark in Arches National Park and is depicted on Utah license plates and a postage stamp commemorating Utah's centennial anniversary of admission to the Union in 1896. The Olympic torch relay for the 2002 Winter Olympics passed through the arch.


== History ==

Because of its distinctive shape, the arch was known as "the Chaps" and "the Schoolmarm's Bloomers" by local cowboys. Many other names have been applied to this arch including "Bloomers Arch", "Marys Bloomers", "Old Maids Bloomers", "Pants Crotch", "Salt Wash Arch", and "School Marms Pants". The arch was given its current name by Frank Beckwith, leader of the Arches National Monument Scientific Expedition, who explored the area in the winter of 1933–1934. Although there is a rumor that the names of Delicate Arch and Landscape Arch were inadvertently exchanged due to a signage mixup by the National Park Service (NPS), this is false.
This arch played no part in the original designation of the area as a national monument (Arches National Monument) in 1929 and was not included within the original boundaries. It was added when the monument was enlarged in 1938.
In the 1950s, the NPS investigated the possibility of applying a clear plastic coating to the arch to protect it from further erosion and eventual destruction. The idea was ultimately abandoned as impractical and contrary to NPS principles.
Nature photographer Michael Fatali started a fire under the arch in September 2000 to demonstrate nighttime photography techniques to a group of amateur photographers. The fire discolored portions of the sandstone near the arch. Fatali was placed on probation and fined $10,900 in restitution to the NPS for the cost of cleanup efforts.
In 2017, the United Utah Party was founded, and chose Delicate Arch as its official party logo.


== Geology ==
Delicate Arch is formed of Entrada Sandstone. The original sandstone fin was gradually worn away by weathering and erosion, leaving the arch. Other arches in the park were formed the same way but, due to placement and less dramatic shape, are not as famous.


== Ecology ==
During the summer, white-throated swifts (Aeronautes saxatalis) nest in the top of the arch.


== Climbing ==
In May 2006, climber Dean Potter performed as many as six free solo ascents of the arch. Climbing Delicate Arch was not explicitly forbidden under the rules in force at the time, which only stated that routes "may be closed" on any named arch; however, most climbers accepted that the named arch formations should not be climbed. The NPS has since closed the loophole by disallowing climbs on any named arch within the park year-round. Slacklining and the placement of new fixed anchors on new climbs are also prohibited.
Controversy ensued when photographs taken after Potter's climb appeared to show damage caused by a climbing technique called top roping. Potter stated on several occasions that he never damaged the arch, and no photos exist of Potter using a top rope setup on the arch. Previous climbers may have top-roped the arch, leaving the existing rope scars. Potter did admit to using a counterweighted rope over the top of the arch, within a natural groove, as well as four cams in a horizontal crack of harder rock at the summit. He used the rope and cams for protection while rehearsing his free solo route and to rappel back down after the free solos. Two fellow climbers also ascended via fixed ropes, one of whom recorded video of Potter from the top.


== Tourism ==
Delicate Arch is one of the main tourist draws in Arches National Park. The parking lot at the Delicate Arch Trailhead, although large, fills up quickly on most days. The trail to Delicate Arch is 3 miles (4.8 kilometers) round trip with an elevation change of 480 feet (146 meters). The trail is well defined for the first 1/2 mile, then does a steep incline over open rock. There is a narrow ledge for the last 200 yards (183 meter) before reaching the arch.


== See also ==
 Utah portal


== References ==


== External links ==

Arches National Park Delicate Arch page
Arches National Park Trails Page
Panorama Under Arch (archived 9 June 2009)
Beautiful Places episode of Delicate Arch (archived 28 June 2010)
Panoramic View of Delicate Arch at Sunset Archived March 15, 2016, at the Wayback Machine

Old Cambrai Cathedral was the Gothic cathedral of the diocese of Cambrai in France, sited on what is now Place Fénelon in Cambrai but now entirely lost. Recorded as one of the largest and finest architectural monuments in northern France, it was replaced by the current Cambrai Cathedral.


== History ==
The foundations of the old cathedral dated back to the fourth century. The church was rebuilt by Saint Vaast in the sixth century.
The first plans for a new cathedral were made after a fire in 1148 destroyed the city's 11th century cathedral (rebuilt by bishops Gerard of Florennes and Gerard of Lessines). By the end of the twelfth century, a chapel dedicated to Saint Gangulph was finished and a bronze angel crowned the octagonal stone spire. The choir was completed around 1251 (when the canons took possession of it). There was a clock in the north transept above the Chapel of Notre-Dame-de-Pitié. The cathedral as a whole was consecrated in 1472.
Known as 'the wonder of the low countries', it measured 131 meters in length and 72 meters wide and its highest spire was 114 meters above ground level. Nineteenth century excavations to renew a road along Place Fénelon rediscovered part of its choir. That choir is sometimes attributed to Villard de Honnecourt, but the sketch of it in his portfolio is inexact and possibly by another architect. Another excavation in 1954, in advance of building work, uncovered the foundations of the south transept and another in the 2000s for the construction of the Lycée Fénelon's gymnasium revealed some buildings from the adjoining archbishop's palace, a golden key and other finds.
The cathedral, “exceeded all others in Christendom with its fine singing, its bright lighting and its sweet bells”, but most significantly, resided leading musicians and composers of the time The old cathedral was host to several notable French and Flemish composers who served as maître de chapelle including Guillaume Dufay, Robert de Févin, Johannes Lupi, and Jean de Bonmarché. Nicolas Malin and Richard Loqueville taught Dufay there; Gilet Velut was likely petit vicaire in 1409. In 1428 Philippe de Luxembourg claimed that the cathedral was the finest in all of Christianity, for the fineness of its singing, its light, and the sweetness of its bells.
In 1791, during the French Revolution, the cathedral was used for worship under the "culte constitutionnel", but only a year later it was damaged. In 1793 it was converted into a granary, and on 6 June 1796 sold to a certain Blanquart, a merchant from Saint-Quentin, who demolished it in order to sell off the stone. Its spire survived into the early years of the First French Empire, when attempts were made to save it as a memorial to Fénelon, but the project was abandoned after being judged too costly, and the spire left to be blown down in a storm in 1809.
The building is known only through a few surviving documents - two high-precision drawings by Louis XIV's military painter Van der Meulen, statements made on the feasibility of the Fénelon spire project, a watercolour painted by an English soldier on the fall of the First Empire, and two photographs of the royal engineers' 1695 'plan-relief' of the town (the plan-relief itself was taken by the Germans during the Second World War occupation and was destroyed in the Battle of Berlin in 1945).


=== Notre-Dame de Grâce ===
In 1450, a painting of the Madonna and child was presented to the cathedral by Fursy de Bruille, a cathedral canon. It was installed with great ceremony in the Chapel of the Holy Trinity and became the object of fervent pilgrimage, reflecting a contemporary appetite for new types of devotional imagery. A confraternity was established in 1453 for the "care and veneration" of the relic, which from 1455 was carried in procession through the town on the Feast of the Assumption (August 15). In Cambrai, the work attracted thousands of pilgrims, including Philip the Good (1457), Charles the Bold (1460), and Louis XI of France. The painting was subsequently transferred to the present cathedral.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Sources ==
Trénard, Louis (ed), 1982: Histoire de Cambrai. Presses Universitaires de Lille


== External links ==
(in French) Association Recherche Fénelon"
(in French) Paroisse Notre-Dame à Cambrai

Adir Blazio Kist (born 21 March 1972), is a Brazilian football coach and former player who played as a goalkeeper.


== Playing career ==
Born in Ipumirim, Santa Catarina, Kist began his career with Juventude. After representing Ariquemes, Lajeadense, Guarany de Garibaldi, Brasil de Farroupilha, São José-RS, Porto-PE and Náutico, he moved abroad in 1999, and joined Portuguese Segunda Liga side Santa Clara.
Kist continued to feature in the Portuguese second level in the following years, playing for Felgueiras, Penafiel and Maia. He returned to his home country in April 2004 with Londrina, but left the club in June, after the departure of head coach Caio Júnior.
Kist subsequently moved to Cianorte, and later represented Farroupilha, Rio Branco-SP and Garibaldi before returning to Cianorte for the 2008 season. He retired with the side shortly after, aged 36.


== Post-playing career ==
After retiring, Kist became an executive director of his last club Cianorte. On 24 June 2023, he left the side after 15 years, and became Paulo Turra's assistant at Santos.


== References ==

USS Requisite (AM-109) was an Auk-class minesweeper acquired by the United States Navy for the dangerous task of removing mines from minefields laid in the water to prevent ships from passing.
Requisite was laid down 12 November 1941 by the Winslow Marine Railway and Shipbuilding Company, Seattle, Washington; launched 25 July 1942; and commissioned 7 June 1943.


== World War II Pacific operations ==
Following shakedown off southern California, Requisite proceeded to San Francisco. Thence on 1 August, she escorted a convoy to Honolulu. Attached to Service Squadron 6, she trained in Hawaiian waters into October. On the 25th, she cleared Pearl Harbor and headed for the New Hebrides to prepare for her first amphibious operation, the invasion of Tarawa Atoll, in the Gilberts.
Departing Efate on 13 November, she took up her position as listening vessel at the lagoon entrance off Betio early on the morning of the 20th. While pre-invasion bombardment was in progress, she and Pursuit (AM-108) swept a channel from the transport area into the lagoon. Just prior to the landings, she took up duties as assistant control and survey ship and began marking the channel and searching out possible anchorages in the lagoon. On the 21st, she returned to the transport area and resumed screening duties.
As Tarawa was being secured, Requisite shifted to Abemama and assisted in the offloading of equipment and supplies for the garrison group. She then remained in the area until 12 December when she got underway for Pearl Harbor.


== Operating with Task Force 52 ==
On 22 January 1944, she sortied with Task Force TF 52 for the invasion of the Marshalls. In the antisubmarine screen of the Southern Attack Force, en route, she arrived off Kwajalein Atoll on the 31st. She continued her antisubmarine activities until 3 February, then began sweeping operations off Kwajalein and other islands in the southern part of the atoll. On the 6th, she planted navigational aids, and on the 15th, sortied with Task Group TG 51.11 for the Eniwetok assault.
Two days later, she entered Eniwetok lagoon between Japtan and Parry Islands. Sweeping and survey duties followed. On the 24th, she returned to Kwajalein and, through March escorted reconnaissance parties in LSTs and LCIs to Wotho, Ujae, Lae, Ailinglapalap, Namorik and other minor atolls and islands of the Marshalls.
On 10 April, she departed those islands and headed east with an LST convoy. On the 24th, she escorted her charges into Pearl Harbor and 2 days later continued on to San Francisco and overhaul.
On 16 July she returned to Hawaii. An escort run to Eniwetok and inter-island escort duty in Hawaii took her into September. Then, on the 23rd, she headed west for her next invasion target, the Philippines.


== Operations with the Seventh Fleet ==
Moving across the Pacific via Eniwetok, she joined the 7th Fleet at Manus on 10 October, and seven days later she commenced sweeping the approaches to Leyte Gulf. She continued her sweeping operations until the 24th, when she anchored in San Pedro Bay. Three days later, she began a five-day search for survivors of the battles for Leyte Gulf.
During November she swept in waters near Homonhon, Suluan, Calicoan, and Dinagat. In early December, she and Pursuit swept the Canigao Channel, West Passage, to provide a second access to the Camotes Sea. On the 6th, 7th, and 8th, Requisite participated in the Ormoc Bay assault, then returned to the east coast of Leyte.
On 2 January 1945, Requisite moved north with Task Group TG 77.6. The next day she entered the Sulu Sea. She passed Manila Bay on 5 January, and, on the 6th, she began sweeping operations in Lingayen Gulf which continued until the 14th. She then replenished at Leyte, and returned to Luzon on 29 January for pre-invasion sweeps off San Felipe in Zambales Province. On the 31st, she anchored in Subic Bay.
In February, Requisite with others of Mine Division 3, moved east to Guam, whence she continued to Ulithi. In mid-March she sortied with Mine Group 1 of the Okinawa invasion force.


== Okinawa operations ==
Arriving in the Ryūkyūs on the 24th, Requisite swept the approaches to Kerama Retto the same day. On the 25th, she extended operations to Keise Shima. The 26th saw her off southern Okinawa. From the 27th through the 29th, she operated off the Hagushi beaches and on the 30th and 31st she swept off the Motobu Peninsula and Ie Shima. She then retired to Kerama Retto.
Requisite remained in the Okinawa area, employed in screening and sweeping operations until 16 April. A month's respite in the Marianas followed; but by the end of May she was back in the Ryūkyūs. Through June, she continued patrol and sweeping duties off Okinawa. In July she began sweeping in the East China Sea in anticipation of an invasion of the Japanese home islands. Then, in August, she departed for an availability at Leyte. There when hostilities ceased, she returned to Okinawa at the end of the month and in September resumed sweeping operations, this time to clear Japanese waters for the arrival of occupation forces and the resumption of peacetime maritime traffic. Off Shikoku during early September, she shifted to Honshū at midmonth and during October operated in the Ise Wan area. On in November, she added the responsibility of communications and operational headquarter, CTG 52.8, to her duties and on 17 December she headed back to the United States.


== Post-War operations ==
The ship arrived at San Diego on 17 January 1946. The following month, she continued on to the U.S. East Coast arriving at Norfolk on 21 February. For the next year and a half she operated with the Atlantic Fleet towing targets for training groups. Then ordered inactivated, she proceeded to Orange, Texas, where she decommissioned and joined the Reserve Fleet on 23 December 1947.


== Operations as a survey ship ==
Recommissioned 15 February 1950, Requisite was assigned to hydrographic survey duties. She reported to the Atlantic Fleet for duty on 1 March and for the next three years she spent the winter survey season operating in the Caribbean and the warmer months off Labrador and Greenland. Reclassified AGS-18 on 18 August 1951, she discontinued her North Atlantic-Caribbean schedule in the fall of 1954. On 6 October she got underway from Norfolk; and, from 1 November 1954 to 2 February 1955, she conducted surveys from İskenderun, Turkey. Returned to Norfolk. They went west through the Panama Canal to San Diego, then to Seattle. 1955
Requisite shifted to the northern Pacific. She arrived at her new homeport, Seattle, June 1955-Captain Robert F. Hopkins,  in late June and before the end of the month had commenced Arctic operations. Arrived Nome Alaska July 3 rd  and some of the crew marched in the 4 th of July Parade in Nome. By mid-September she had surveyed routes from Herschel Island to Shepherd Bay, taking continuous soundings and compiling bathythermograph information and gathering core samplings every 20 miles. She continued her operations from Seattle until July 1958. Then homeported at San Francisco, California, she remained in the Pacific, ranging from the Arctic to Polynesia, to Central America until the spring of 1959.
On 1 May 1959, she got underway for Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Arriving on the 23rd, she resumed operations with ServRon 8, Atlantic Fleet and during the summer operated in the Caribbean. In November, she sailed east for her first survey season in the Persian Gulf. During the 1960–61 season she returned to the Persian Gulf, but remained in the Atlantic, the Caribbean, and off New England during the 1961–62 season. On 1 July 1962, she sailed for Iceland and a return to survey operations of Greenland, completing that mission in November. In January 1963, she sailed to the West Indies, operated there through the summer, and returned to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in early November.


== Decommissioning ==
Ordered inactivated she reported to the Philadelphia Group, Atlantic Reserve Fleet, on 23 December. She was decommissioned and struck from the Navy list on 1 April 1964.


== Awards ==
Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal with eight battle stars
World War II Victory Medal
Navy Occupation Medal
National Defense Service Medal with star


== References ==
 This article incorporates text from the public domain Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships. The entry can be found here.


== External links ==
Photo gallery of USS Requisite (AM-109/AGS-18) at NavSource Naval History
USS Requisite
USS Requisite (AM-109, later AGS-18), 1943-1965
Ships of the U.S. Navy, 1940-1945 AM-109 USS Requisite
USS Requisite (AM 109)

Sheel Vardhan Singh is a retired Indian Police Service officer, former 29th Director General of the Central Industrial Security Force, and former Special Director of the Intelligence Bureau from Bihar cadre (1986). He also served as First Secretary of the Indian High Commission in Dhaka. An alumnus of Panjab University and National Defence College, India, he serves as a member of the Union Public Service Commission from 15 January 2024 to 25 August 2028.


== References ==


== External links ==
https://www.cisf.gov.in/cisfeng/

A tzompantli (Nahuatl pronunciation: [t͡somˈpant͡ɬi]) or skull rack was a type of wooden rack or palisade documented in several Mesoamerican civilizations, which was used for the public display of human skulls, typically those of war captives or other sacrificial victims. It is a scaffold-like construction of poles on which heads and skulls were placed after holes had been made in them. Many have been documented throughout Mesoamerica, and range from the Epiclassic (c. 600–900 CE) through early Post-Classic (c. 900–1250 CE). In 2015 archeologists announced the discovery of the Huey Tzompantli, with more than 650 skulls, in the archeological zone of the Templo Mayor in Mexico City.


== Etymology ==
The name comes from the Classical Nahuatl language of the Aztecs but is also commonly applied to similar structures depicted in other civilizations. Its precise etymology is uncertain although its general interpretation is 'skull rack', 'wall of skulls', or 'skull banner'. It is most likely a compound of the Nahuatl words tzontecomatl ('skull'; from tzontli or tzom- 'hair', 'scalp' and tecomatl ('gourd' or 'container'), and pamitl ('banner'). That derivation has been ascribed to explain the depictions in several codices that associate these with banners; however, Nahuatl linguist Frances Karttunen has proposed that pantli means merely 'row' or 'wall'.


== Historical distribution ==


=== General information ===
It was most commonly erected as a linearly-arranged series of vertical posts connected by a series of horizontal crossbeams. The skulls were pierced or threaded laterally along these horizontal stakes. An alternate arrangement, more common in the Maya regions, was for the skulls to be impaled on top of one another along the vertical posts.
Tzompantli is known chiefly for their depiction in Late Postclassic (13th to 16th centuries) and post-Conquest (mid-16th to 17th centuries) codices, contemporary accounts of the conquistadores, and several other inscriptions. However, a tzompantli-like structure, thought to be the first instance of such structures, has been excavated from the Proto-Classic Zapotec civilization at the La Coyotera, Oaxaca site, dating from around the 2nd century BCE to the 3rd century CE. The Zapotecs called this structure a yàgabetoo, and it displayed 61 skulls.
Tzompantli are also noted in other Mesoamerican pre-Columbian cultures, such as the Toltec and Mixtec.


=== Toltec ===
At the Toltec capital of Tula the first indications in Central Mexico of a real fascination with skulls and skeletons. Tula flourished from the ninth until the thirteenth century. The site includes the decimated remains of a tzompantli. The tzompantli at Tula displayed multiple rows of stone carved skulls adorning the sides of a broad platform upon which the actual skulls of sacrificial victims were exhibited. The tzompantli appeared during the final phases of civilization at Tula, which was destroyed around 1200.


=== Maya ===
Other examples are indicated from Maya civilization sites such as Uxmal and other Puuc region sites of the Yucatán, dating from around the late 9th-century decline of the Maya Classical Era. A particularly fine and intact inscription example survives at the extensive Chichen Itza site.

Human sacrifice on a large scale was introduced to the Maya by the Toltecs from the appearances of the tzompantli in the Chichen Itza ball courts. Six ball court reliefs at Chichen Itza depict the decapitation of a ball player; it seems that the losers would be beheaded and would have their skulls placed on the tzompantli.


=== Aztec era ===
The word tzompantli is Nahuatl and was used by the Aztecs to refer to the skull-racks found in many Aztec cities; The first and most prominent example is the Hueyi Tzompantli (Great Skull-rack) located in the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan and described by the early conquistadors. There were at least five more skull racks in Tenochtitlan but by all accounts they were much smaller.
According to Bernal Díaz del Castillo's eye-witness account, the Historia verdadera de la conquista de la Nueva España, written several decades after the event, after Hernán Cortés's expedition was forced to make their initial retreat from Tenochtitlan, the Aztecs erected a makeshift tzompantli to display the severed heads of men and horses they had captured from the invaders. This tzompantli is depicted in the twelfth book of the Florentine Codex. This taunting is also depicted in an Aztec codex which relates the story, and the subsequent battles which led to the eventual capture of the city by the Spanish forces and their allies.
During the stay of Cortes's expedition in the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan (initially as guest-captives of the Emperor Moctezuma II, before the battle which would lead to the conquest), they reported a wooden tzompantli altar adorned with the skulls from recent sacrifices. Within the complex of the Templo Mayor itself, a relief in stucco depicted these sacrifices; the remains of this relief have survived and may now be seen in the ruins in the Zócalo of present-day Mexico City.


==== Preparation of tzompantli ====
Excavations at Templo Mayor in the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan have revealed many skulls belonging to women and children, in addition to those of men, a demonstration of the diversity of the human sacrifices in Aztec culture. While the severed heads were put on display, many scholars have determined that the limbs of Aztec victims were cannibalized. Fray Diego Durán confirms this, stating that skulls were delivered to temples after "the flesh had been eaten".
Durán notes that the tzompantli were periodically renovated. Regarding this, Durán states: "When [the skulls] become old and deteriorated, they fell in pieces. When the palisade become old, however, it was renovated, and on its removal many [skulls] broke. Others were removed to make room for more, so that there would be a place for those were to be killed later."
Archeologist Eduardo Contreras believes that the tissue attached to skulls was removed prior to a tzompantli pole being inserted through the side of the skulls. He bases these assumptions on excavations of the Plaza de las Tres Culturas at Tlatelolco, Mexico City, between 1960 and 1965.


==== Hueyi Tzompantli ====
The Hueyi Tzompantli was the central tzompantli found in Tenochtitlan. The skull rack here served as a reminder of the Aztec's ongoing Flowery Wars. An important aspect of Aztec warfare was the capture of enemy warriors to serve as sacrificial victims, which is evident from the number of warriors found sacrificed around Aztec structures. One conquistador, Andrés de Tapia, was given the task of counting the skulls on the tzompantli at Tenochtitlan and estimated that there were 136,000 skulls on it. However, based on numbers given by Taipa and Fray Diego Durán, Bernard Ortiz de Montellano has calculated that there were at most 60,000 skulls on the Hueyi Tzompantli of Tenochtitlan. The Hueyi Tzompantli consisted of a massive masonry platform composed of “thirty long steps” measuring fully 60 meters in length by 30 meters wide at its summit. Atop of the aforementioned platform was erected an equally formidable wooden palisade and scaffolding consisting of between 60 and 70 massive uprights or timbers woven together with an impressive constellation of horizontal cross beams upon which were suspended the tens of thousands of decapitated human heads once impaled thereon. Regarding this, Bernal Díaz de Castillo states:

I remember that they had in a plaza, where there were some shrines, so many places of dead skulls, which could be counted, according to the concert as they were set, that when they appeared they would be more than one hundred thousand; and I say again about one hundred thousand. And in another part of the square were as many rowers of bones without meat, bones of dead, that could not be counted; and they had in many beams many heads hanging from one part to another. And keeping those bones and skulls were three priests, who, as we understood, were in charge of them. Of which we had to look more after we entered the land well: in all the villages they were that way, and also in Tascala.
Various scholarly interpretations of the cosmological importance of Hueyi Tzompantli's placement have emerged. Eduardo Matos Moctezuma claims that a central tzompantli was placed north of the Templo Mayor. Moctezuma notes that no corresponding shrine was found south. Moctezuma also notes that Mexica views of the universe, which divide the universe into a horizontal and vertical plane, claim that the northern sector of the horizontal plane corresponds to Mictlampa, or the land of the dead. On the other hand, Rubén G. Mendoza contends that the Hueyi Tzompantli was placed on an east–west axis between the Templo Mayor and a principal ball court. The Hueyi Tzompantli would have been aligned with the  marker within the Templo Mayor dividing one half for Tlāloc and the other half for Huītzilōpōchtli. Mendoza argues that as the sun traveled through the sky, it would have ascended into the "vault of the heavens", represented by the Hueyi Tzompantli.
Modern archeological evidence has found that this large palisade was flanked by two circular towers made out of skulls and mortar.


==== Historical depictions ====

There are numerous depictions of tzompantli in Aztec codices, dating from around the time or shortly after the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire, such as the Durán Codex, Ramírez Codex, and Codex Borgia. The Codex Mendoza contains multiple depictions of tzompantli. The Frontispiece of the Codex Mendoza depicts a tzompantli holding single skull next to an eagle perched on a cactus. A similar depiction of a tzompantli is used to represent the town of Tzompanco in the Codex Mendoza. Folio 45v of the Codex Borgia depicts a platform adorned with skulls.


==== Recent excavations ====
Archaeologists affiliated with the National Institute of Anthropology and History have taken part in a series of excavations since 2015 that have resulted in the finding of tzompantli. These excavations took place near the Mexico City Metropolitan Cathedral and included the finding of one tzompantli tower. These excavations have revealed that women and children were sacrificed, although men made up 75% of the sacrificial victims.


== Association and meaning ==
Apart from their use to display the skulls of ritualistically-executed war captives, tzompantli often occur in the contexts of Mesoamerican ball courts, which were widespread throughout the region's civilizations and sites. The game was 'played for keeps' ending with the losing team being sacrificed. The captain of the winning team was tasked with taking the head of the losing team's captain to be displayed on a tzompantli. In these contexts it appears that the tzompantli was used to display the losers' heads of this often highly ritualised game. Not all games resulted in this outcome, however, and for those that did it is surmised that these participants were often notable captives. An alternative theory is that it was the captain of the winning team who lost his head, but there is little evidence that this was the case. Still, it is acknowledged that in Mesoamerican culture to be sacrificed was to be honored with feeding the gods. Tula, the former Toltec capital, has a well-preserved tzompantli inscription on its ball court.
The association with ball courts is also reflected in the Popol Vuh, the famous religious, historical and cultural account of the K'iche' Maya. When Hun Hunahpu, father of the Maya Hero Twins, was killed by the lords of the Underworld (Xibalba), his head was hung in a gourd tree next to a ball court. The gourd tree is a clear representation of a tzompantli, and the image of skulls in trees as if they were fruits is also a common indicator of a tzompantli and the associations with some of the game's metaphorical interpretations.


== Gallery ==


== Contemporary uses ==
Tzompantli have been the subject of multiple artworks created during the twentieth century. Jose Chavez Morado depicted tzompantli in a 1961 painting. George O. Jackson, as part of his Essence of Mexico project, photographed various representations of skulls, which he refers to as calaveras (the Spanish word for 'skulls'); Jackson refers to groups of these photos as tzompantli. Tzompantli were also the subject of murals created for the festival Mextonia, which celebrates Mexican culture and occurs in Estonia, by the art collective Nueve Arte Urbano. The Museo de Arte de Querétaro featured an exhibit titled Tzompantli, which featured works made by various artists depicting skulls.


=== In popular culture ===
In Charles Stross's Laundry Files novels, the new prime minister of the United Kingdom adds a tzompantli  to the Marble Arch.


== See also ==

Capela dos Ossos
Headhunting
Santa Maria della Concezione dei Cappuccini
Sedlec Ossuary
Skull Chapel, Czermna
Skull Tower


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Brandes, Stanley (2009). Skulls to the Living, Bread to the Dead: The Day of the Dead in Mexico and Beyond. Hoboken: John Wiley & Sons. ISBN 9781405178709.
Campbell, Joseph (1988). The Power of Myth. New York: Doubleday. ISBN 978-0385418867.
Coe, Michael D.; Koontz, Rex (2008). Mexico: From the Olmecs to the Aztecs. New York: Thames and Hudson. ISBN 978-0-500-28755-2.
Coe, Michael D. (2011). The Maya. New York: Thames and Hudson. ISBN 978-0-500-28902-0.
Diaz del Castillo, Bernal (1963). Historia verdadera de la conquista de la Nueva España [The Conquest of New Spain]. Translated by J. M. Cohen. New York: Penguin Group. ISBN 978-0140441239. {{cite book}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help)
Flannery, Kent V.; Marcus, Joyce (July 2003). "The origin of war: New 14C dates from ancient Mexico". PNAS. 100 (20): 11801–11805. Bibcode:2003PNAS..10011801F. doi:10.1073/pnas.1934526100. PMC 208841. PMID 14500785.
Harner, Michael (February 1977). "The Ecological Basis for Aztec Sacrifice". American Ethnologist. 4 (1): 117–135. doi:10.1525/ae.1977.4.1.02a00070. JSTOR 643526.
Levy, Buddy (2009). Conquistador: Hernán Cortés, King Montezuma, and the Last Stand of the Aztecs. New York: Random House LLC. ISBN 9780553384710.
Mendoza, Ruben G. (2007). "The Divine Gourd Tree". In Chacon, Richard J.; Dye, David H. (eds.). The Taking and Displaying of Human Body Parts as Trophies by Amerindians. Interdisciplinary Contributions to Archaeology. New York: Springer Press. pp. 400–443. doi:10.1007/978-0-387-48303-0_16. ISBN 978-0-387-48300-9.
Miller, Mary; Taube, Karl (1993). The Gods and Symbols of Ancient Mexico and the Maya. London: Thames and Hudson. ISBN 978-0-500-05068-2.
Nelson, Ben A.; Darling, J. Andrew; Kice, David A. (December 1992). "Mortuary Practices and the Social Order at La Quemada, Zacatecas, Mexico". Latin American Antiquity. 3 (4): 298–315. doi:10.2307/971951. JSTOR 971951. S2CID 163819183.
Ortíz de Montellano, Bernard R. (1983). "Counting Skulls: Comment on the Aztec Cannibalism Theory of Harner-Harris". American Anthropologist. 85 (2): 403–406. doi:10.1525/aa.1983.85.2.02a00130.
Palka, Joel W. (2007). Historical Dictionary of Mesoamerica. Lanham: Scarecrow Press. ISBN 978-0810837157.
Spencer, C. S. (1982). The Cuicatlán Cañada and Monte Albán: A Study of Primary State Formation. New York: Academic Press. ISBN 978-0-12-656680-2.

The Dutch Empire is a term comprising different territories that were controlled by the Netherlands from the 17th to 20th centuries. They settled outside Europe with skills in trade and transport. In the late 16th century, the Netherlands reclaimed their lead at sea, and by the second half of the 17th century, dominated it. This hundred-year period is called the Dutch Golden Age. The Dutch built their empire with corporate colonialism by establishing the Dutch East India Company (VOC) and the Dutch West India Company (GWC), following Britain's footsteps, which led to war between both empires. After the French Revolutionary Wars, the Netherlands lost most of its power to the British after the French armies invaded the Netherlands and parts of the Dutch colonies. Hence, Dutch leaders had to defend their colonies and homeland. Between 1795 and 1814, the French restored the VOC in Indonesia and Suriname which remained under Dutch control.


== The global expansion of the Dutch Empire ==

By the 17th century, there was a beginning of revolutionary thought in Europe. This had an impact on the European politics, culture, and science, eventually leading to the Age of Enlightenment in the 18th century. Due to  Enlightenment thinking and science, European economies developed faster than the rest of the world. Therefore, a primary consequence was the beginning of  modern imperialism and the rise of the colonial states. This led to the rise of the Dutch Empire. The Dutch Empire lasted for three and a half centuries, both in the east and west of the globe. The majority of the Dutch Empire's economy was concentrated on the East Indies and only a small part of their focus was on the West Indies. By the 19th century, the Netherlands started losing most of its possessions in Asia, while Great Britain managed to become the undisputed successor that took over most of the Dutch East India Company's assets. For that reason, Dutch trade in the East Indies weakened while the British took control of Asia, Africa, and the Caribbean.


=== Dutch East India Company (VOC) ===

The VOC name came from the Dutch East Indies Company (Vereenigde Oost-Indische Compangnie). This trading company was founded in the Dutch Republic, started in 1602 to protect their trade along the Indian Ocean. The VOC main trade location was in Indonesia. The company became the only power of the peninsula. According to the Dutch colonial archive, the communication between Batavia and the government in Hague were disrupted during the British captured and occupied the Dutch East Indies. However, it was restored when Java returned to the Dutch in 1816, after five years under British rule. The structure of the company factories was to control the supplies of some products such as cloves, nutmeg and mace. They used a forceful system as a form of tax, to control the locals to sell at a set price. The purpose of this system was to bring all these products to Europe; and VOC profits were only for the company not to the indigenous traders.


=== Dutch West India Company ===

The GWC name came from the Dutch West India Company (Geoctrooieerde Westindische Compagnie). When the VOC took control in the eastern shores, Amsterdam decided to establish the GWC. The Dutch arrival in Africa and the Americas had a great effect on the political culture of both countries. According to historians, the Dutch played an important role in the Atlantic countries. They brought their culture and politics to Africa and the Americas. The Dutch were at war with Spain; but Amsterdam was only interested in taking over the Spanish colonies in the Caribbean and South America, the reason behind the war with Spain, due to the Spanish invasion of the southern Netherlands between the 15th and the 16th centuries. The government did not care about investment or trade, which angered the merchants because they did not have any financial guarantees. It was obvious that the West India Company was interested in war more than trade. On the other hand, Spain did not intend to wage war against the Dutch, as a result, the Spanish made them sign a truce to force the Dutch to withdraw from the Americas. The Dutch were not impressed with the Spanish ban on their trade, except the Dutch were more knowledgeable in map-making across the globe. The most famous Dutch cartographer of the 17th century was Hessel Gerritsz.


== Economy ==
The demand for wool could not meet with the native production in the Netherlands. By the 12th century, Flemings imported a large amount of English wool. Textile industries in the southern Netherlands became the largest manufacturers of cloth as well as being front-runners of crafts in the thirteenth century. The Dutch Republic was more successful in cloth-making, with Flanders being the most favoured throughout all of Europe. Whereas, in the other European countries, they used fake textiles trying to copy Flanders work, most of the Dutch textile industry were mastered by Romans. By the end of the 15th century, Flanders was not the sole manufacturer anymore. When the demand grew for textile, the English imported wool which was the high-quality product and the most demanded all over Europe. Flanders lost its position in textile industries. However, the economy was built on fishing. Agriculture and fishing were the most essential for the Dutch economy. The Dutch were successful in the fishing industries in the Baltic and North Seas between the 15th and 16th centuries, nearly a hundred years before they established their empire in the 17th century. As the urban population increased during the 17th century, there was a dramatic rise in demand for fruit and vegetables. As a result, many farmers turned to gardening as well as animal production, considering Holland's weather and soil was ideal to grow cattle. Agriculture was the biggest section of Dutch economy. Though grain production could not cover the demands, due to migrations from the southern provinces. Consequently, the Dutch started to import grains from the Baltic, and sure enough the main trade considered the main source of the Dutch employment in the eighteenth century. Due to the early success that the Dutch had with the Baltic trade, Dutch ships expand their trade to east Russia, south to the Mediterranean. By the 17th century, they moved their trade to the American and Asian markets. They also expanded to Guinea trade ignoring the slave trade, as it was the Portuguese trade. There was a big rivalry between trade companies from European Asia to America. The Dutch trade faced stark competition from the Portuguese in Asia and English in Africa and America. As they controlled the trade road from the Indian to Atlantic Oceans. Until the VOC was formed, it became the first and most big merchant ships in Asia. Even then they had stiff competition with the English East India company. Although the economy was built on fishing, the agriculture during the fifteenth century, animal farming was another reason for building the Dutch economy. Dutch cattle were well cared for, during that period urban population grew and farmers grew fruits and vegetables to supply the cities. The success they built in the Baltic trade gave the Dutch the ability to increase their trade to Asia and the Americas.


== Africa ==


=== South Africa ===

In 1652, the Dutch East India Company under Jan van Riebeeck established a resupply station at the Cape of Good Hope, situated halfway between the Dutch East Indies and the Dutch West Indies. Great Britain seized the colony in 1797 during the wars of the First Coalition (in which the Netherlands were allied with revolutionary France), and annexed it in 1805. The Dutch remained in South Africa until the Boer Wars broke out. The Dutch colonists in South Africa remained after the British took over and later made the trek across the country to Natal.  They were involved in the Boer Wars against the British and are now known as Boers.


=== West Africa ===
The Dutch had several possessions in West Africa. These included the Dutch Gold Coast, the Dutch Slave Coast, Dutch Loango-Angola, Senegambia, and Arguin. They built their first two forts on the Gold Coast in 1598 at Komenda and Kormantsil (in present-day Ghana). They expanded their presence in the following centuries. In 1872, they sold the Dutch Gold Coast to the British.


=== East Africa ===
Mauritius is an island east of Madagascar, off Africa's southeast coast. Dutch Mauritius was an official settlement of the Dutch East India Company on the island of Mauritius between 1638 and 1710.


== Asia ==


=== Dutch East Indies ===

The Dutch East Indies comprised and formed the basis of mostly the later Indonesia. The first Dutch conquests were made among the Portuguese trading posts in the Maluku "Spice Islands" in 1605. The Spice Islands were out of the way for the Dutch trade routes to China and Japan, so Jayakarta on Java was captured and fortified in 1619. As "Batavia" (now Jakarta), it became the Asian headquarters of the East India Company (VOC). The company administered the islands directly on a for-profit model that restricted most of its attention to Java, southern Sumatra, and Bangka. English incursions were curtailed by the 1623 Amboyna massacre but the attack left bad blood and prompted a series of Anglo-Dutch wars. The company and its territories were nationalized in 1795 after British attacks effectively bankrupted it. The Dutch Malacca was part of the Dutch East Indies governorate between 1818 and 1825. However, the Dutch preferred Batavia (present-day Jakarta) as their economic and administrative centre in the region and their hold in Malacca was to prevent the loss of the city to other European powers and, subsequently, the competition that would come with it. In 1825, based on the Anglo-Dutch Treaty of 1824, the Dutch have ceded Malacca to the United Kingdom that have consolidated modern-day rule to the Malacca state of Malaysia. During the 19th and early 20th centuries, the Dutch expanded throughout the archipelago. Following the 1940 German occupation of the Netherlands and the 1942 Japanese occupation of the Dutch East Indies during World War II, Indonesian independence was declared in August 1945 and – following a prolonged revolution – recognized in December 1949.
Dutch New Guinea was retained separately until 1962, when it was transferred to Indonesia under pressure from the United States amid the escalation of the Vietnam War.


=== Dutch India ===

Dutch India was also composed of colonies and trading posts administered initially by the East Indies Company (VOC) and then directly by the Dutch government after the VOC's collapse.
Coromandel was the major Dutch colony on the mainland. It grew from the fort at Pulicat (Geldria) captured from the Portuguese in 1609. It comprised India's southeastern Coromandel coast across from Ceylon. Surat (Suratte) administered Dutch outposts in Gujarat after 1616. Outposts in Mughal Bengal (Bengalen) were consolidated after Chinsura (Gustavius) was fortified in 1635. Malabar was conquered from the Portuguese in the 1660s and administered from Cochin.
Amid the Napoleonic Wars, Malabar and Suratte were yielded to the British in 1795; Ceylon in 1802; and Bengal and Coromandel in 1824.


=== Ceylon ===
Ceylon (Zeylan; modern Sri Lanka) was the principal interest of the Dutch in India: it provided cinnamon and elephants and serviced trade between South Africa and the East Indies. Buddhists, Muslims and Hindus were struggling against the Portuguese who were trying to convert the people to Christianity. Where the Dutch were interested in trade more than religion, as a result, they took over and made Ceylon their major trading post. The VOC successfully wrested it from Portuguese control during the 1630s, 1640s, and 1650s although, like the Portuguese, they were never able control the interior of the island. In 1796, Britain took control of all the Dutch positions.


=== Formosa ===

Formosa was the Dutch colony on Taiwan. It was based at Fort Zeelandia from 1624 to 1662, when Koxinga conquered the island. The island was a source of sugarcane and buckskin, as well as an entrepot for merchants from China.


=== Malacca ===

Malacca was an important port on the western Malay Peninsula controlling the Strait of Malacca. It was seized from the Portuguese in 1641. During the Napoleonic Wars, it was yielded to Britain in 1806; it was later returned in 1816 and finally ceded again in 1824.


=== Iran ===
An asterisk (*) designates a trading post.
Band-e Kong (1690)*
Bandar-e Abbas (1623–1758)* The Dutch East India Company founded an office in Gamron in 1623. Here they purchased wool and attar of roses and above all silk. They sold spices, cotton fabrics, porcelain, opium, and Japanese lacquer work. Gamron had a garrison comprising around 20 European employees and 20 Persian staff. In 1729 the Dutch attempted, without success, to move their factory from Bandar-e Abbas to the island of Hormuz. In 1758 the company decided to close the station at Bandar-e Abbas.
Bushehr (1738–1753)*
Esfahan (1623–1747)* In 1623 Huybert Visnich established a trading station in Isfahan and concluded a commercial treaty with the Shah. Esfahan was the capital of the kingdom of Persia. The Dutch East Indies Company bought silk from the Shah in exchange for spices and military protection. They were obliged to maintain an office in Esfahan due to the endless negotiations with the Shah about trading concessions. In 1722, Esfahan was conquered by the Afghans. During this time the Dutch were kept virtual prisoners in their factory. In 1727 the factory had to be abandoned because the inner city was to be reserved for Afghans only. The Dutch staff moved to Jolfa. In 1747 the Dutch East India Company office was closed.
Kerman (1659–1744)* A Dutch trading station was opened at Kerman in 1659. It remained in operation, with interruptions, until 1744. The town of Kerman was known for its wool trade.
Khark (1753–1766) Khark is an island in the north of the Persian Gulf near Basra. In Khark the Baron Tido von Kniphausen, formerly Dutch East India Company agent in Bassora, built Fort Mosselstein in 1753 where Javanese sugar and Indian textiles were offered for sale. In 1766 the fort was plundered by the Persian army.
Lar (1631)
Qeshm (1685)
Shiraz (???)


=== Iraq ===
Al Basrah (1645–1646, 1651)*


=== Pakistan ===
The Dutch had a trading office in the city of Sindi (now Thatta) from 1652 to 1660.


=== Yemen ===
Aden (1620)* On 22 August 1620, the Dutch ship T Wapen van Zeelandt reached Aden. Here the Dutch immediately rented a house. When the ship left Aden, five servants and a supply of goods (worth about 42.000 guilders) were left in the trading post under the charge of Harman van Gil. Van Gil went to Sana'a where Muhammad Basha granted to the Dutch permission to build a trading office in Mocha. In November/December 1620 Van Gil transferred the company's goods to Mocha and closed the temporary office in Aden.
Al Mukha (1621–1623, 1639–1739)* Van Gil arrived in Mocha on 28 January 1621 and there he founded a Dutch trading office. Harman van Gil died in July 1621. Willem Jacobsz de Milde was appointed chief of the trading office. The trading office was closed in April 1623 due to problems with the Yemenite governors. It was reopened in 1639–1739.
Ash Shihr (1614–1616)*


=== Bangladesh ===

Dhaka (1602–1757)*
During the period of Proto-industrialization, the empire received 50% of textiles and 80% of silks import from the India's Mughal Empire, chiefly from its most developed region known as Bengal Subah.
In the 18th century the Dutch Colonial Empire began to decline as a result of the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War of 1780–1784, in which the Netherlands lost a number of its colonial possessions and trade monopolies to the British Empire and the conquest of the wealthy Mughal Bengal at the Battle of Plassey.


=== Oman ===
Muscat (1674)*


=== Burma ===
Bandel (1608–1631, 1634)*
Syriam (1635–1679)*
Ava (1635–1679)*
Mandalay (1625–1665)*
Martaban (1660)*
Pegu (???)*


=== Thailand ===
Ayutthaya*
Bangkok*
Nakhon Si Thammarat*
Pattani*
Phuket*
Songkhla*


=== Malaysia ===

Melaka*
Kuala Kedah*
Kuala Linggi
Kuala Selangor
Tanjung Putus*
Ilha das Naus
Kota Belanda (1670–1743, 1745–1748) The origins of this fort can be traced back to 1670. At this time, the Dutch had a monopoly on the export of tin in Perak. The fort was built to protect the tin trade. It is located in the fishing village of Teluk Gedung on Pangkor Island. An early fort was built in 1651 but was destroyed. In 1670, Batavia ordered the construction of a new wooden fort. Ten years later it was replaced by a brick one. In 1690, the Malays under the leadership of Panglima Kulup attacked, damaging the fort and killing several Dutchmen. The settlement was temporarily abandoned until 1743, when the Dutch returned and repaired it. The Dutch stationed 60 soldiers here, including of 30 Europeans.
In 1748, the Dutch built another fort near the Perak River. Following this the Dutch administrators ordered the abandonment of this fort. In 1973, the Museums Department rebuilt the fort and it is now a tourist attraction.


=== Cambodia ===
Phnom Penh*
Laauweck (1620–1622, 1667)* The town of Lawec in Cambodia was situated halfway along the Mekong River on the way to Phnom Penh. The Dutch East India Company set up a trading post at Lauweck in 1620, but the trade there proved disappointing, and just two years later the company shut the post down. A new Lawec trading post was opened in 1636, and then sold to the British in 1651, with discontinuities corresponding to the Anglo-Dutch Wars of the era.  Meanwhile, "From 1636 to 1670 the Dutch merchants lived at Udong on a semi-permanent basis."[1] but in 1667 the Company left Cambodia durably (to continue regional trade from their expanding holdings in what is now Indonesia). Besides deer hides and ray skins, Cambodia functioned mainly as a source of provisions for Batavia such as rice, butter, salted pork, and lard.


=== Vietnam ===
Hanoi (1636–1699)* Towards the end of the 1630s, the Company signed an agreement with the king of Tonkin and opened a trading post in or near today's Hanoi. The country was a major silk producer. The silk which the Dutch East India Company bought there was particularly valuable for trade with Japan. The Company maintained a trading post in Tonkin from 1636 to 1699. This trading post was run by an 'opperhoofd' or supervisor.
Hoi An* 


=== China ===
Fuzhou (????-1681)* After the loss of Taiwan to the Chinese in 1662, the Dutch East India Company tried to gain access to the Chinese porcelain and silk trade at the port of Fuzhou. The company's attempts to trade there were hampered by a string of bureaucratic restrictions. Although the trading post at Fuzhou barely made a profit, the Company kept it open until 1681.
Huangpu (1728) Whampoa, an island situated in the Zhujiang River, served as the harbour for the city of Canton. A Dutch warehouse was built here.
Canton (1749–1803)* Tea and porcelain were the principal products purchased by the Dutch East India Company in Canton (now known as Guangzhou). In the 18th century the Company rented permanent premises in Canton, next to the building occupied by the British.
In 1622, some Dutch East India Company (VOC) ships attempted to set up a trading post at Fat Tong Mun (佛堂門) (now in Hong Kong) after the Dutch settled in present-day Tainan The Dutch then sailed their ships via present day Victoria Harbour to Nantou in Shenzhen. The Dutch left for Portuguese Macau and finally Taiwan after violent crashes with the locals.


=== Japan ===

Firando (1609–1641)*
Deshima (1641–1853)* Initially the Dutch maintained a trading post at Hirado, from 1609 to 1641. The Japanese granted the Dutch a trade monopoly in Japan from 1641 to 1853, but solely on Deshima, an artificial island off the coast of Nagasaki. During this period they were the only Europeans allowed into Japan. Chinese and Korean traders were still welcome, though restricted in their movements.


== Europe ==


=== Belgium ===
The Netherlands were granted control of the Southern Netherlands after the Congress of Vienna.  The Southern Netherlands declared independence in 1830 (the Belgian Revolution), and its independence was recognized by the Netherlands in 1839, giving birth to the new country of Belgium.  As part of the Congress of Vienna, King William I of the Netherlands was made Grand Duke of Luxembourg, and the two countries united into a personal union.


=== Luxembourg ===
The independence of Luxembourg was ratified in 1869. When William III of the Netherlands died in 1890, leaving no male successor, the Grand Duchy was given to another branch of the House of Nassau.


== North America ==


=== New Netherland ===

New Netherland (Nieuw-Nederland) comprised the areas of the northeast Atlantic seaboard of the present-day United States that were visited by Dutch explorers and later settled and taken over by the Dutch West India Company. The settlements were initially located on the Hudson River at Fort Nassau (1614–7) in present-day Albany, New York (later resettled as Fort Orange in 1624), and New Amsterdam, founded in 1625 on Manhattan Island. New Netherland reached its maximum size after the Dutch absorbed the Swedish settlement of Fort Christina in 1655, thereby ending the North American colony of New Sweden.
New Netherland itself formally ended in 1674 after the Third Anglo-Dutch War. Dutch settlements passed to the English crown. The treaty was that each party would hold on to their land, as the Anglo-Dutch war ended, the English conquered New Amsterdam of Peter Stuyvesant including Manhattan Island. Amsterdam city is today called New York. The treaty forged by the Dutch and English stated that each party would hold onto any lands held or conquered at the time of the Treaty of Breda which had ended the Second Anglo-Dutch War.  There was no exchange of lands.  Hence, the English held onto New Amsterdam (including Manhattan Island and the Hudson River Valley), and the Dutch spoils included Dutch Guiana in South America, and the group of islands in the East Indies known as the Spice Islands (now called Maluku Islands) that were the source of the valuable spice nutmeg. These islands were the only place in the world where the nutmeg tree was found at that time.


=== Dutch West Indies ===

The Dutch Antilles (Nederlandse Antillen) comprised various islands around the Caribbean principally colonized or seized by the Dutch from the Spanish. The first settlement was at Saint Martin in 1620. Former territories include the Dutch Virgin Islands (Nederlandse Maagdeneilanden) settled in 1648 but seized by the English in 1672 and New Walcheren (Nieuw-Walcheren) on Tobago held at various times between 1628 and 1677.
Six of the original islands remain part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to this day. Three – Aruba, Curaçao, and St. Maarten – are counted as "countries" within the Kingdom of the Netherlands, while the BES Islands – Bonaire, Saba, and St. Eustatius – are counted as special municipalities of the Netherlands proper within the country and overseas territories under the EU.


== Oceania ==


=== New Holland ===

New Holland was a nominal Dutch claim over western Australia. Although no formal colonization attempt was ever made, many places along the northwest coast retain Dutch names. Numerous Dutch ships on their way to the Dutch East Indies such as the Batavia were wrecked off the coast. Later British explorers also claimed to discover small pockets of aborigines with blonde hair and blue eyes.


=== Van Diemen's Land ===

Another Dutch claim in present-day Australia, that to Van Diemen's Land, dated from 1642 when Abel Tasman claimed the present-day island of Tasmania that now commemorates his name. It too was never colonized (or even re-visited by later Dutch explorers).


== South America ==


=== Suriname ===

Suriname (Surinam) was originally established as the English colony of Willoughbyland by Lord Willoughby in 1650. The colony was captured by a Dutch force on 26 February 1667 during the Second Anglo-Dutch War. Under the terms of the treaties of Breda and Westminster, the English government accepted the loss of Suriname in exchange for receiving New Netherland (which they renamed New York) in North America. Slavery in Dutch Suriname was abolished in 1873, following a decade-long transition period. Suriname remained a Dutch colony until the German occupation of the Netherlands during World War II, during which the importance of its aluminium mines prompted its occupation by American troops. After the war, Suriname was returned to Dutch rule but promoted to a constituent country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in 1954. It was granted full independence in 1975.
Suriname was known for its valuable sugar plantations so it fell into the hands of the Dutch in return for New Netherland when a treaty was signed in 1674.


=== Guyana ===

Pomeroon was established on its eponymous river in 1581 and destroyed by natives and Spaniards around 1596. Its original colonists fled to the ruins of an old Portuguese settlement on the island of Kyk-Over-Al in the Essequibo River and established New Zeeland (Nova Zeelandia). After a new fort was established in 1616, the colony became known as Essquibo (Essequebo). In similar fashion, settlements along the Berbice River became known as Berbice in 1627 and others along the Demerara River became Demerara (Demerary) in 1745. Pomeroon was briefly refounded in 1650 but destroyed by French pirates in 1689; later settlements were considered part of the other three colonies. Berbice was occupied by the French in 1712 during the War of Spanish Succession. It was also the site of a major slave uprising under Cuffy in 1763 and '64.
All three were repeatedly captured by the British, finally being ceded at the close of the Napoleonic Wars and reformed as Demerara-Essequibo and Berbice and then united as British Guiana. By 1814 the Netherlands surrendered Guyana to the United Kingdom.


=== New Holland (Brazil) ===

New Holland (Nieuw-Holland) comprised territories captured from the Iberian Union in northern and northeastern Brazil, held between 1630 and 1654, and claimed until the 1661 Treaty of the Hague. The conquest was the culmination of the "Grand Design", a plan by the West India Company to control the sugar trade by seizing the rich Brazilian plantations and the African slave ports necessary to resupply their labor force. A 1624 attempt held the Brazilian capital of Salvador da Bahia for a year but failed in Africa and finally yielded to a combined Luso-Spanish force. The Battle of Matanzas Bay provided the West India Company with a huge windfall of Spanish silver, which it used to successfully renew the plan. At its height, New Holland spread from Sergipe to Maranhão. Governor Maurits successfully managed the colony for years but, upon his recall to the Netherlands in 1643, the Portuguese planters began a long campaign against his successors. This struggle against the Dutch was later considered formative for later Brazilian independence. Newly independent, Portugal finally agreed to pay the Netherlands 4 million reais (63 metric tons of gold) for abandoning its claims to the territory.


=== Chile ===

In 1643 a Dutch fleet sailed from Dutch Brazil to Southern Chile with the goal of establishing a base in the ruins of the abandoned Spanish city of Valdivia. The expedition led by Hendrik Brouwer sacked the Spanish Fort at Carelmapu and the settlement of Castro in Chiloé Archipelago before sailing to Valdivia. The Dutch arrived to Valdivia on 24 August 1643, built a fort and named the colony Brouwershaven after Brouwer who had died several weeks earlier. The short-lived colony was abandoned on 28 October 1643 as they did not find the gold mines they had expected. Nevertheless, the occupation caused great alarm among Spanish authorities and the Spanish resettled Valdivia and begun the construction of an extensive network of fortifications in 1645 to prevent any similar intrusions from happening again. Although contemporaries considered the possibility of a new incursion, the expedition was the last one undertaken by the Dutch on the west coast of the Americas.


== References ==

An asterisk (*) designates a trading post

Bladedance of Elementalers (Japanese: 精霊使いの剣舞（ブレイドダンス）, Hepburn: Seirei Tsukai no Bureidodansu; lit. Spirit Elementalist's Blade Dance), also written as Blade Dance of Elementalers, is a Japanese light novel series written by Yū Shimizu with illustrations by Hanpen Sakura (volumes 1–13), Yuuji Nimura (volumes 14–16) and Kohada Shimesaba (volumes 17–20). A manga adaptation illustrated by Hyōju Issei was serialized from June 27, 2012, to January 27, 2017, in Media Factory's Monthly Comic Alive and compiled in six volumes. The first volume was released on February 23, 2013. An anime television series adaptation by TNK aired from July 14 to September 29, 2014. The last volume of the novel was released on March 25, 2019.


== Plot ==
The story takes place in a world where spirits exist and only pure maidens have the privilege of contracting with the spirits. These maidens hail from noble families and gather at the Areishia Spirit Academy, a specialized school where they are trained to become elementalists.
However, a male teenager named Kamito Kazehaya changes everything. After receiving an invitation from the Academy's director, Greyworth Ciel Mais to come to Areisha Spirit Academy, he loses his way in the spirit forest and stumbles upon a girl named Claire Rouge purifying herself in a lake. She is, understandably, upset and embarrassed and attacks him. He is able to avoid the worst of her wrath and finds out that she intends to contract with a sealed sword spirit. He accompanies her so that she can guide him out of the forest once she has accomplished her goal. Claire attempts to contract with the sealed sword spirit but fails causing it to go berserk. In order to save her life and much to Claire's chagrin, Kamito forms a contract with the sword spirit himself, turning him into the only male elementalist in the world (he also becomes the second male elementalist in 1000 years). Disregarding the fact that he saved her life, she accuses him of stealing her spirit and insists that he atone for it by becoming her contracted spirit.


== Characters ==


=== Team Scarlet ===
Kamito Kazehaya (カゼハヤ・カミト, Kazehaya Kamito)
Voiced by: Makoto Furukawa
The world's only known male elementalist. He forms an incomplete contract with the sealed sword spirit, Est, while responding to a summon from the director of Areishia Spirit Academy.
Before being summoned to the Academy he was raised as an elite assassin by the Institutional School where he was conditioned to become an emotionless shell in order to make him a more controllable (and disposable) tool. However, his life changed after meeting the spirit, Restia. She taught him about the world outside of the school, and, in the process, rekindled his emotions. The Institutional School was attacked and destroyed by a rampant fire spirit which allowed him to escape, along with the sealed artifact, a special ring that belonged to the first "Demon King", imprisoning Restia. An encounter with Greyworth, further changed his life.
Three years before, Kamito participated in the Blade Dance in drag under the name Ren Ashbell (レン・アッシュベル, Ren Asshuberu) and won the title of the Strongest Blade Dancer. He had long hair at the time, and an outfit (for girls) from what is believed to be his homeland as his disguise. Since Ren Ashbell is such a prominent role model to many of the maidens at the Academy, Kamito tries to avoid using his better-known techniques to avoid revealing that everyone's favorite idol is really a boy, usually unsuccessfully. His attempts at subterfuge are aided by the fact that, as Ren, he wielded Restia (a black sword) with his left hand (now covered with a glove), and he now wields Est (a white sword) with his right hand.
Kamito's life at the Academy is rather taxing because of The girls' feelings for him, coupled with wildly exaggerated rumors and misconceptions about him. The result of these hijinks is that Kamito becomes known as the 'Demon King of the Night' (and eventually daylight and noon). The irony of the situation is that if Kamito had actually done even a fraction of the perverted stuff he is rumored to, neither he or the girls he 'soiled' would be pure enough to use their contracted Spirits. Despite this inconsistency, the rumors about him are considered fact by numerous Intelligence agencies including the Duchy of Dracunia who first wanted to castrate him to protect innocent maidens, and then later changed their minds to wanting to seduce him, with the hope that the resulting children would inherit his abilities.
Claire Rouge (クレア・ルージュ, Kurea Rūju)
Voiced by: Ibuki Kido
Claire is the younger daughter of Duke Elstein. She inherited the Elstein fire-red hair and eyes as well as the family aptitude for Fire magic. The Elsteins were grand nobles who had served the royal family for generations ever since the founding of the Ordesian Empire. Four years ago her elder sister, Rubia, the Queen serving under the Fire Elemental Lord, snatched the strongest flame spirit, Laevateinn, and disappeared. Outraged by this betrayal, the Fire Elemental Lord burned parts of the Empire and would not allow any fires other than those of Flame Spirits to exist within the Empire. Ren Ashbell's Blade Dance the following year appeased the Fire Lord's anger enough that he stopped randomly burning the Empire. As the result of that incident, the Elstein duchy and fortune were seized and the duke and his wife were imprisoned in Balsas's prison. Although Claire was not sent to prison, the Imperial family demanded the return of Scarlet, her elemental spirit. However, Greyworth interceded on her behalf, saying that Claire would become an excellent elementalist at her Academy.
After Claire accepted Greyworth's offer, she dropped the Elstein family name and attends Areishia Spirit Academy under the alias Claire Rouge. Initially a meek and shy child Claire has strengthened herself in order to win the Blade Dance and find out the reasons for her sister's actions. Due to being ostracized as the sister of the "Calamity Queen", she has little trust in anybody other than Scarlet. Claire has studied intensely to become one of the top students of the school and become an able strategist. Her contract symbol with Scarlet is on the back of her right hand and looks like a white/red whirling mass of flames.
Although she treats Kamito as her 'slave spirit' as punishment for contracting Est in her place, she seems to enjoy books where the male character enslaves the female protagonist and even has dreams of being Kamito's slave. Like many other maidens, she was inspired by Ren Ashbell's Blade Dance three years ago. She has suspicions of Kamito being Ren Ashbell after observing him fight using the same moves as Ren and seeing him cross-dress during the current Blade Dance.
Ellis Fahrengart (エリス・ファーレンガルト, Erisu Fārengaruto)
Voiced by: Shizuka Ishigami
A daughter of Duke Fahrengart who's the head of the militant Fahrengart family. She has contracted with Simurgh, a wind spirit who appears as a large hawk with a waffe form of a spear. Her contract symbol is on the back of her right hand and resembles the view of a tornado seen from directly above in white/green. The Duke Fahrengart is Ellis' father, who wants her to marry Kamito and raise kids. Ellis also has a two years-elder adopted sister, Velsaria Eva Fahrengart.
Ellis is also the captain of the Sylphid Knights; a group of students, who help protect the Academy, enforce discipline and morals, handle wild spirits and the recently opened Astral Gates in the forest. Although initially vehemently against Kamito's presence at the Academy (as the only other known male elementalist was the demon king) she gradually warms up to and falls in love with him. Ellis has a strict and firm personality, but has the heart of an innocent maiden which her close friends and comrades in the Sylphid Knights take advantage of;– she was once tricked her into believing a risqué outfit was the new dress uniform. It's unknown if she had a specific wish for the Blade Dance, although she may have entered to save her sister Velsaria as well as to bring honor to her family and country.
After seeing Kamito fight numerous times she is suspicious of how similar his fighting style is to Ren Ashbell's, but is fooled by an article listing Ashbell's believed "preferences" which are different from his due to him giving vague yes/no answers back then to cover his voice cracking. In Volume 13, she gets a big boost to her divine power and recovery ability after kissing Kamito on the lips. The boost was powerful enough to heal several days' worth of injuries in one day and enlarged Sigmurgh enough to enable him to carry two people instead of just one.
Rinslet Laurenfrost (リンスレット・ローレンフロスト, Rinsuretto Rōrenfurosuto)
Voiced by: Kana Yūki
She is one of the daughters of the Laurenfrost family. While a prominent family it was slightly lesser to that of the Elsteins before their fall. Rinslet's personality is that of a showoff that enjoys the spotlight chance permitting, but not at the expense of doing her duty. Despite that is still a shy girl who hides her concern for others and unlike many never treated Claire any differently from when they were friends to Rubia becoming the Calamity Queen. She was chosen by the Laurenfrost guardian spirit Fenrir to be his contractor. Due to being contracted with him she is very skilled in Ice magic and an accomplished sniper with his Waffe form of a bow. Like the others has the heart of an innocent maiden who falls deeply for Kamito. Also like the others this does not stop her from striking hard with magic (and holding him completely at fault) if she catches him in an embarrassing situation with another girl. She is an expert in domestic matter due to her maid Carol being completely lacking in skills of being a Laurenfrost maid except for being cute (and able to trick Rinslet easily).
Rinslet enters the Blade Dance with the wish for the Water Lord to forgive her sister Judia and break the eternal ice curse cast upon her for what was thought to be a mistake during a kagura dance to the Water Lord. Similar to Ellis she gets a boost to her divine power after kissing Kamito in Volume 13. Position in team is that of Sniper/Support as her Ice Magic and Bow attacks are best suited for mid/long range battle while extremely disadvantageous at close melee range. Contract symbol is on back of her right hand and resembles a white/blue complex snowflake with two sides cropped off by the edge of the symbol. While trying to save a spirit after the Blade Dance she gets another contract symbol on the back of her left hand that looks like a white/blue ice rose.
Fianna Ray Ordesia (フィアナ・レイ・オルデシア, Fiana Rei Orudeshia)
Voiced by: Saori Ōnishi
She is the second princess of the Ordesian Empire and the chosen contractor of the family guardian spirit, Georgios. Her contract symbol is white/gold in color and located just above her cleavage. It is discovered later that she was using pads and the family bloodstone she stole to appear bigger. Fianna has a playful personality with a risque sense of humour that earned her the nickname Perverted Princess. She is aware that Kamito is Ren Ashbell due to him having saved her from a rogue spirit while wielding Restia three years previously. She demanded his true name and made a promise to meet him again. When she enrolls in the Academy, Greyworth asks Kamito's team to act as Fianna's bodyguard and Kamito does not recognize her at first due to trauma and Restia's magic clouding his memories around the time of his wish.
Fianna was raised as a typical potential Queen candidate maiden being trained in seclusion but she has been unable to summon Georgios since Rubia used the just stolen Levateinn to take out Georgios in one strike. As a result she was ostracized as the "Lost Queen", practically disowned, and treated harshly by not only her family, but the family servants and other nobles as well. Especially in regards to her two year-older brother, Arneus Ray Ordesia, who she considers cruel and unfit to be the next emperor as well as anyone getting what they deserve if they crown him. As with many other girls of her generation, seeing Ren Ashbell's Blade Dance three years ago gave her the strength to go on. Greyworth and a few other teachers are aware that she 'cheated' on her entrance exam by using flash stones (magic stones containing a spirit anyone can use but is expensive and one use only) and that she is unable to function as an elementalist, but the headmistress allowed her to enroll regardless, hoping that she will be able to regain her abilities.
Fianna joins Team Scarlet, and with the support of Kamito and the others, is able to summon Georgios again. Her purpose in entering the Blade Dance is to regain her ability as an elementalist. Due to lack of combat training, she is unable to enter direct combat except for summoning and sending Georgios. After learning how to summon a waffe she is also able to cast the spell known as "Save the Queen" which establishes an area around where the waffe has been stabbed into the ground as her territory which shields those inside from enemy attacks as well as heal wounds and replenish divine power through the Holy Attribute. She acts as the team's healer but she has to be in skin contact with Kamito to heal him due to his resistance to Holy magic, which she does quite willingly and forwardly. While she cherishes the friends who did not abandon her, she wishes to remain with Team Scarlet as they fully accepted her, even after discovering she was initially faking being an elementalist (especially as she is very much in love with Kamito.)


=== Spirits ===
Terminus Est (テルミヌス・エスト, Teruminusu Esuto)
Voiced by: Ai Kakuma
Est is Kamito's second contracted spirit. Due to his guilt (for making another spirit contract) and refusal to abandon Restia, the contract was only partially completed so she can only manifest 10% of her power. Therefore, unlike other spirits, she can't return to Astral Zero to recharge and so spends a large amount of time sleeping in sword form to recover her strength. This also means Kamito can't summon her with the Spirit Seal on his hand as summoning only works if the spirit is in Astral Zero. She has long, white hair, blue eyes, and in human form looks to be about 12-13 years old. She is usually stoic (speaking softly in a monotone), but she likes to be praised and having Kamito pat her on the head. Est is especially jealous of Restia. In an effort to "please" Kamito she has read some of Claire's X-rated books and wears unusual costumes from Fianna's collection to bid him good morning. For some reason Est has no problem appearing naked as long as her legs are covered, usually with knee socks.
In the past, she was contracted to Areishia Idriss, the Sacred Queen who defeated the Demon King, but her unique ability which destroys curses unfortunately builds up her own curse until it activates turning her wielder into Spirit Crystal. This is because she is not a true Holy Sword but rather a Demonic Sword. After years of daily fighting, her curse finally took its toll and, to her horror, Est witnessed Areishia turn into crystal right in front of her. Afterwards that she sealed herself in the Demon King's armory and refused to make a contract with anyone to prevent the same thing from happening again. After her memory was restored, not wanting to curse Kamito too, she sealed herself away again but he refused saying that he would accept her curse and destiny even if it would one day lead to his own destruction.
Restia Ashdoll (レスティア・アッシュドール, Resutia Asshudōru)
Voiced by: Yōko Hikasa
Kamito's first contracted spirit. She was sealed in the ring of Sulaimon and taught Kamito everything including about the world beyond the Institutional School, and giving him emotions as well as forming a Spirit Contract with him without permission. After the Institutional School was destroyed Kamito took the ring and searched for a way to release her, eventually leading him to Greyworth who took an interest in him and helped him to release her from the ring. Afterwards she and Kamito took part in the Bladedance becoming the Strongest Bladedancer and making a forbidden wish which corrupted her and made her disappear. It's later revealed that she was one of the 72 pillars of the first Demon King and that her job is to find, select, and raise a potential candidate as the next Demon King if she feels that person is worthy of inheriting the title. Kamito is the first potential candidate she has come into contact with who was not overwhelmed by the Demon King's power within them. Her personality is that of a mischievous, caring young woman fond of pranks but can be deadly serious when the situation calls for it. Like Est she cares very deeply for Kamito and is jealous that Est is also Kamito's contracted spirit. Restia's contract circle isn't described but is located on Kamito's left hand which he usually covers with a leather glove. As no two Spirit Contract symbols are alike this could expose his identity as Ren Ashbell whose Spirit Contract symbol is as well known as Ashbell is.
Her elemental waffe is The Sword That Pierces Truth Vorpal Sword that looks like a black greatsword with a red edge. Her special power as a sword is releasing powerful black/purple lightning that destroys almost everything it touches. In human form she can disappear into shadows and shoot all the feathers from her wings like darts, although using the latter prevents her from being able to fly until her wings recover. To ensure that she doesn't become the "Enemy of the World" she told Kamito to kill her if she became someone other than herself.
Scarlet/Ortlinde (スカーレット/オルトリンデ, Sukāretto/Orutorinde)
Voiced by: Ibuki Kido
Scarlet is Claire's female contracted spirit that had been passed down the Elstein family contracting only with those of her choosing. Scarlet usually takes the form of a flaming red house cat or, when in waffe form, that of a whip with Fire attributes. It is later revealed that Scarlet is in fact a powerful fire spirit able to take human form, but that her true name, Ortlinde, was forgotten. Ortlinde, also known as the Scarlet Valkyrie, appears as a young cat girl garbed in flames who wields a flame scythe and is able to conjure fireballs which are immensely more powerful than Claire's. Due to her isolation as Rubia's younger sister, Claire developed a habit of keeping Scarlet around for companionship. Scarlet is fond of Kamito because he feeds her and Ortlinde considers him to be Claire's master because of Claire's dreams involving him.
Fenrir (フェンリル, Fenriru)
Fenrir is an Ice attribute spirit, contracted with Rinslet Laurenfrost, who takes the form of a white/silver Wolf with blue eyes. Fenrir is large enough to be ridden by Rinslet. His waffe form is that of a silvery bow that shoots ice arrows. In addition to Ice Magic, Fenrir can also 'suck' up items that are carried in some kind of pocket dimension (Hammerspace) that can be 'spat' out later depending on which items are wanted.
Simurgh (シムルグ, Shimurugu)
Simurgh is Ellis' contracted Wind spirit who takes the form of a large hawk or, in his waffe form, that of a spear. Being a Wind spirit, Simurgh is able to act independently at greater distances than other contracted spirits.
Georgios (ゲオルギウス, Georugiusu)
Georgios is Fianna's contracted Holy Spirit who takes the form of a glowing knight in full plate armor wielding a sword and shield. Georgios' waffe form is that of a ceremonial rapier. As a Holy Spirit he has extreme resistance and can inflict severe damage to Darkness Spirits. Georgios was overwhelmed by Rubia when Fianna tried to stop Rubia's betrayal, and as a result Fianna became unable to summon him until, three years later, she was able to regain the inner strength she needed thanks to Kamito. Unlike Claire and Rinslet, Fianna doesn't summon Georgios for companionship but only when he is needed.


=== Ordesian Empire ===


==== Areishia Spirit Academy ====
Greyworth Ciel Mais (グレイワース・シェルマイス, Gureiwāsu Sherumaisu)
Voiced by: Mai Nakahara
Greyworth is the principal and director of the Areishia Spirit Academy and a former member of the Ordesia Empire's Numbers, an organization of elites. She is also known as the "Dusk Witch". She has the appearance of a beautiful woman in her early twenties with ash-blonde hair and gray eyes. She won the Blade Dance 24 years prior to the beginning of the story with her demon spirit, Void. She wished for immortality and youth. She met Kamito soon after he escaped the destruction of the Instructional School when he was contracted to kill her. She took him in and trained him in the sword techniques that allowed him to win the Blade Dance the following year. In the present, she summons Kamito to Areishia Spirit Academy where she enrolls him as a transfer and forces him to participate in the current Blade Dance.
Freya Grandol (フレイヤ・グランドル, Fureiya Gurandoru)
Voiced by: Yumi Kakazu
Freya is a teacher at Areishia Spirit Academy. She is Raven Class's homeroom lecturer and a shadow spirit elementalist. She is also the manager of the academy's Astral Gate. She appears to be in her mid-twenties and has long black hair. She uses her ability to travel between shadows to gather information for Greyworth. As a member of the Spirit Research Agency Freya has traveled and performed field work across the continent.


=== Instructional School ===
The Instructional School was a secret academy run by powerful but unknown people from the Empire for the express purpose of training children to become emotionless assassins. The children raised at the Instructional School were usually orphans, abandoned for various reasons or kidnapped. The school was destroyed by an extremely powerful fire spirit and those children who were not killed or did not escape on their own were taken into the care of the Ordesian Empire.
Muir Alenstarl (ミュア・アレンスタール, Myua Arensutāru)
Muir was the second most powerful assassin at the Instructional School after Kamito. She was born in a small village on the border of the Empire. Even though she was not of noble blood, she was found to possess the ability to contract with spirits and for this she was treasured. On her fourth birthday she was presented to the village's guardian spirit in hopes that she would form a contract with it and so allow the village to prosper. Unknown to the villagers, Muir's ability could only cause spirits she encountered to go berserk. As a result, the guardian spirit ran amok and destroyed the village and itself in the process. Vilified, Muir was abandoned and picked up by the Instructional School, where she was taught nothing but slaughter techniques, given the Cursed Armament Seal called "Jester's Vice", which allowed her some measure of control over the spirits she encountered, and became known as a Monster. She has a child-like personality and likes to do things as the whim takes her without regards for anyone else. Since she was born with a power which the world rejects, she has chosen to reject the world in turn and is merciless against those who oppose her will, with the exception of Kamito, whom she refers to as Onii-sama. In fact, one might call Muir obsessed with Kamito who tried to befriend her when she arrived at the Instructional School, but when she refused friendship offered to think of her as a younger sister.
Lily Flame (リリィ・フレイム, Riryi Fureimu)
Lily is an Elfim assassin with jade-green hair, red eyes and pointy ears. She was ranked as the sixth strongest at Instructional School and worked closely with Muir and Kamito, where she was in charge of information gathering. Lily has contracted with Titania, a plant spirit with many different types of poisons and chemicals to wear down its opponents that have been touched by its spines. :Following the destruction of the Instructional School, Lily was found by Rubia Elstein and swore loyalty to her because not only did Rubia value her abilities, but she treated Lily as a person worthy of respect rather than a disposable tool. Two years later, she was reunited with Muir and later became a member of Team Inferno.
Jio Inzagi (ジオ・インザーギ, Jio Inzāgi)
Voiced by: Yoshitsugu Matsuoka
Jio was an orphan who was raised at the Instructional School. He has a hard, steel-like reddish hair (black in the light novel) and red eyes with dark skin. Although he went through the same training as Kamito, his abilities were inferior (he was outclassed by both Muir and Kamito) and he did not have the ability to communicate and form a contract with spirits. Jio has a haughty and arrogant personality that considers spirits to be disposable tools to be used up and discarded like trash. Only keeps his promises or word when he feels like it, and ready to break them and abandon anyone at his earliest convenience while saying it's not his fault that they were foolish enough to trust him.
After the destruction of the Instructional School, Jio was found to have the ability to maintain numerous Spirit Seals within his body (in the form of tattoos) and command them through use of a blood stone. (Most people would have trouble with just a few Seals without getting drained.) He is extremely jealous of Kamito's position as the next demon king and tries to defeat Kamito using various tricks to make it seem that he's doing so with the Demon King's power to prove 'he' is the rightful successor and not the cheap imitation he really is. After his defeat, Jio is sent to Balsas Prison.


=== Laurenfrost House ===
Judia Laurenfrost (ユーディア・ローレンフロスト, Yūdia Rōrenfurosuto)
She is the second daughter of Gryus Laurenfrost. Rinslet's younger sister. She took Rinslet's place to do a dance honoring the Water Elemental Lord Iseria Seaward, but made a mistake resulting her being imprisoned in eternal ice for punishment. No Water Spirit users have been able to melt the ice, and no offerings have been enough to pardon Judia. Feeling guilty for letting Judia take her place in the dance, Rinslet wants to win the Blade Dance to wish Judia forgiven and freed.
Turns out Judia didn't make a mistake, but during her dance the Darkness driving the Elemental Lords mad noticed her and used the ritual to send a piece of itself into her to control her. Unable to stop it from corrupting Judia, Iseria froze her to stop keep her from summoning the rest of the Darkness into the human world. However, Kamito is able to use Est to free Judia from the Darkness, but what damage to her body and mind is unknown as she's still out cold at the end of Light Novel 13 and is resting in bed.
Mirelle Laurenfrost (ミレーユ・ローレンフロスト, Mirēyu Rōrenfurosuto)
Rinslet's youngest sister. Looks a lot like a younger Rinslet, but hasn't shown any signs of forming a Spirit Contract yet.
Carol Nastassha (キャロル・ナスターシャ, Kyaroru Nasutāsha)
Voiced by: Manami Tanaka
She is Rinslet Laurenfrost's personal maid. Although Carol is quite useless as a maid, she understands her master very well and she is always there to support Rinslet. Carol often relays her master's true feelings to Kamito when Rinslet is not being honest. She is adept at talking Rinslet into taking care of her and doing things she should be doing for Rinslet. While she hasn't shown any skills expected for a maid, she seems to be accepted as a Laurenfrost maid as their only criterion seems to be that a maid is cute.


== Media ==


=== Light novels ===
Bladedance of Elementalers is a light novel series written by Yū Shimizu with illustrations by Hanpen Sakura (volumes 1–14), Yuuji Nimura (14–16) and Kohada Shimesada (17–20). The first volume was published on December 24, 2010, under Media Factory's MF Bunko J, and the last on March 25, 2019. Twenty novels in the series and one extra have been released.


=== Manga ===
A manga adaptation illustrated by Hyōju Issei was serialized from June 27, 2012, to January 27, 2017, in Media Factory's Monthly Comic Alive and compiled in six volumes. The first volume was released on February 23, 2013 and the last on March 23, 2017. In May 2014, Digital Manga licensed the manga for release in North America, and released the first volume on October 27, 2015. They did not release others.


=== Anime ===
It was one of five MF Bunko J light novel anime adaptations announced at Media Factory's Summer School Festival event on July 28, 2013. An anime television series adaptation by TNK aired from July 14 to September 29, 2014. The opening theme is "Kyoumei no True Force" (共鳴のTrue Force, Sympathy's True Force) performed by Hitomi Harada and the ending theme song is "Blade Dance" (精霊剣舞祭（ブレイドダンス）, Bureido Dansu) performed by Knee-Socks. Each BD release included a short special episode. Crunchyroll streamed the series, while Sentai Filmworks have licensed the series.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official light novel website Archived 2014-06-21 at the Wayback Machine (in Japanese)
Official anime website (in Japanese)
Bladedance of Elementalers (light novel) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia

The Personal Telco Project (or PTP) is a wireless community network project in Portland, Oregon. It was founded by Adam Shand in November 2000 after he read a Slashdot article about the Consume The Net project in London.
PTP has wireless hotspots offering free Internet access at locations around Portland including Pioneer Courthouse Square, three public parks, and several restaurants and coffee shops using Wi-Fi.
In 2005 PTP was involved in a grant-funded project to bring free wireless Internet to an entire neighborhood in North Portland, along N. Mississippi Avenue.
PTP is a non-profit organization in the state of Oregon, and received its 501(c)(3) status (a federal tax exemption granted to charitable organizations) in early 2003.
PTP made US news in August 2002 when their hotspot at Pioneer Courthouse Square was blocked by a for-fee hotspot at a nearby Starbucks coffee shop. The problem was resolved amicably when the for-fee hotspot moved their connection to another channel.
On March 4, 2003, a study was published stating Portland had more wireless hotspots per capita than any other U.S. city. This was due in part to PTP's advocacy.


== References ==


== External links ==
personaltelco.net  (Wiki server)
Article about the first PTP meeting
Article about PTP in the Portland Business Journal

Brian Clinton Hambly (31 October 1937 – 30 August 2008) was an Australian rugby league player, a representative forward for the Australia national team between 1959 and 1965. His club career was played with South Sydney and Parramatta. He was considered one of the Australia's finest rugby league players of the twentieth century.


== Club career ==


=== Souths and Wagga ===
A South Sydney junior from the Mascot club, Hambly played in Souths' Presidents Cup side in 1955. He was graded by the Rabbitohs in 1956 and played three seasons with the club. He represented in a New South Wales Colts side against Great Britain in 1958. In 1959 aged only 21 he took on a captain-coach role in the country town of Wagga Wagga, New South Wales for two seasons and it was from there as a country player that he made his state and national representative debuts that same season.


=== Parramatta ===
In 1961 he was lured to the Parramatta club on the then record transfer fee of 2,500 pounds.
The Parramatta club had languished at the bottom of the ladder in their first fifteen seasons after admission to the top grade competition in 1947 – they finished last eight times in the ten seasons from 1952 to 1961. With St. George champion Ken Kearney appointed coach, 1962 marked a turnaround: internationals Hambly and Ron Lynch had joined the club in 1961 with Bob Bugden and Ken Thornett following in 1962. The club was particularly competitive from 1962 to 1965 making the finals in all four seasons. Hambly, then at the top of his career, gave great service to the club at that time. He played on till 1967 in which season he was named captain-coach, however suffering the effects of knee injury during the year he sacked himself in favour of young future Eel star Bob O'Reilly.


== Representative career ==
Hambly first appeared on the representative scene in 1958 for New South Wales Colts against Great Britain playing alongside future greats in Johnny Raper and Ian Walsh. From his country position at Wagga he was first selected for New South Wales at the senior level in 1959 and played in the New South Wales loss to Queensland that attracted 35,261 spectators, smashing Brisbane's previous record for an interstate match of 22,817.
He was then picked as a reserve for Australia's test series against New Zealand that year and then for the 1959 Kangaroo tour. Hambly played in all six Tests plus in 16 other minor tour matches. Hambly was the preferred lock in the first two Ashes tests of the 1959-60 Kangaroo tour but the great form of Johnny Raper saw Hambly moved to the second-row for the remainder of this test career.
He toured to Britain again the next year for the 1960 World Cup and made a second Kangaroo tour in 1963-64 where he played in five tests and nineteen tour matches. Hambly injured a calf muscle doing private training and missed Australia's 50–12 win at Swinton which secured the Ashes.
Hambly made a further overseas tour of New Zealand in 1965. In all, Hambly played in eight different Test series, appearing against all of the major rugby league playing nations; Great Britain (five times), France (nine times) and New Zealand (four times).


== Career playing statistics ==


== Post playing and Accolades ==
Hambly was the licensee of the Willoughby Hotel on Sydney's North Shore from 1975 to 1979.
In February 2008, Hambly was named in the list of Australia's 100 Greatest Players (1908–2007) which was commissioned by the NRL and ARL to celebrate the code's centenary year in Australia.
In 2005, Hambly was inducted into Parramatta's hall of fame.
Hambly died on 30 August 2008, aged 71.


== Sources ==
Whiticker, Alan & Hudson, Glen (2006) The Encyclopedia of Rugby League Players, Gavin Allen Publishing, Sydney
Andrews, Malcolm (2006) The ABC of Rugby League Austn Broadcasting Corpn, Sydney
Pollard, Jack (ed) Gregory's Guide to Rugby League (1965), Grenville Publishing Sydney


== References ==

Pietro Ceccaroni (born 21 December 1995) is an Italian professional footballer who plays as a centre back for Serie B club Palermo.


== Club career ==


=== Spezia ===
Ceccaroni is a youth exponent from Spezia. He made his debut on 1 November 2014 against Pescara in a Serie B match. He came on as a 63rd-minute substitute for Niko Datković in a 2–1 away win. On 5 August 2017, he scored his first goal with Spezia in the Coppa Italia match against Reggiana, which ended in a 3–0 win for his team.


==== Loan to Padova ====
On 3 July 2018, he joined Padova on a season-long loan. Padova held an option to purchase his rights at the end of the loan term.


=== Venezia ===
On 7 August 2019, he joined Venezia on loan with a purchase option. On 23 August 2020, Venezia exercised the option and Ceccaroni signed a 3-year contract with the club.


==== Loan to Lecce ====
On 31 January 2023, Ceccaroni was loaned to Lecce, with an option to buy.


=== Palermo ===
On 7 July 2023, Ceccaroni signed a four-year deal with Palermo.


== Career statistics ==


=== Club ===
As of match played 23 August 2023


== References ==

Mehdiabad (Persian: مهدي اباد, also Romanized as Mehdīābād) is a village in Neh Rural District, in the Central District of Nehbandan County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 214, in 62 families.


== References ==

Tuason is a surname. Notable people with the surname include: 

Andrew Tuason (born 1962), Hong Kong musician
Kooky Tuason (fl. from 2005), Filipina spoken word artist and radio personality
Mercedes Arrastia-Tuason (born 1930), Philippine diplomat
Pedro Tuason (1884–1961), Filipino lawyer and government official
Yannick Tuason (born 1989), Filipino footballer

Solomon Islands first participated at the Olympic Games in 1984, and has sent athletes to compete in every Summer Olympic Games since then. The nation has never participated in the Winter Olympic Games.
To date, no athlete competing for Solomon Islands has ever won an Olympic medal.
The National Olympic Committee for Solomon Islands was created in 1983 and recognized by the International Olympic Committee that same year.


== Medal tables ==


=== Medals by Summer Games ===


== See also ==

List of flag bearers for Solomon Islands at the Olympics
Category:Olympic competitors for the Solomon Islands
Solomon Islands at the Commonwealth Games
Solomon Islands at the Paralympics


== References ==


== External links ==
"Solomon Islands". International Olympic Committee.
"Solomon Islands". Olympedia.com.
"Olympic Analytics/SOL". olympanalyt.com.

Radio Oscar C is a Herzegovina commercial radio station, broadcasting from Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina.


== Frequencies ==
The program is currently broadcast on 5 frequencies:

Mostar  103.4 MHz
Grude 88.5 MHz
Međugorje 88.5 MHz
Neum 91.2 MHz
Stolac 93.4 MHz


== See also ==
List of radio stations in Bosnia and Herzegovina


== References ==


== External links ==
oscarc.in
Communications Regulatory Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Radio Oscar C page on Facebook

Kim Sun-ok is a Korean name consisting of the family name Kim and the given name Sun-ok or Seon-ok, and may also refer to:

Kim So-hee (singer, born 1917) (1917–1995), South Korean traditional singer
Kim Soon-ok (screenwriter) (born 1971), South Korean television writer
Kim Sun-ok (bobsledder) (born 1980), South Korean bobsledder
Kim Soon-ok (table tennis), South Korean table tennis player

The 2018–19 Copa de la Reina was the 34th edition of the Copa de la Reina, Spain's annual field hockey cup competition for women. It was held from 22 to 24 March 1029 in Madrid, at Club de Campo.
Club de Campo won the tournament for the 16th time, defeating Real Club de Polo 5–2 in the final. UD Taburiente finished in third place after defeating Júnior 3–2 in penalties following a 0–0 draw.


== Qualified teams ==
The tournament was contested by the top eight ranked teams from the first half of the 2018–19 season of the Liga Iberdrola.


== Officials ==
The following umpires were appointed by the RFEH to officiate the tournament:


== Results ==


=== Knockouts ===


==== Quarterfinals ====


=== First to fourth place classification ===


==== Semi-finals ====


==== Third and fourth place ====


==== Final ====


== Awards ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Real Federación Española de Hockey

Obuasi Municipal Assembly is one of the forty-three districts in Ashanti Region, Ghana. Originally it was formerly part of the then-larger Adansi West District in 1988, until part of the district was split off to create Obuasi Municipal District on 15 December 2003 (effectively 17 February 2004); whose remaining parts had been absorbed into parts of Adansi North District and Adansi South District respectively. Later, the eastern part of the district was split off to create Obuasi East District on 15 March 2018; thus the remaining part has been retained as Obuasi Municipal Assembly. The municipality is the southern part of Ashanti Region and has Obuasi as its capital town.


== Resources ==
The city is well known for its natural resource: gold.


== Geography ==
The Municipality is located at the southern part of Ashanti between latitude 5.35N and 5.65N and longitude 6.35N and 6.90N. It covers a land area of 1624 km2. There are 53 villages in the Municipality which share 19 electoral areas. It is  bounded to the east by the Adansi South District, west by Amansie Central District and to the north by the Adansi North District. It has Obuasi as its Administrative Capital, where the famous and rich Obuasi Gold Mine is located.


=== Climate and topography ===
The Municipality has a rather undulating topography and the climate is of the semi-equatorial type with a double rainfall regime. Mean annual rainfall ranges between 1250mm and 1750mm.  Mean average annual temperature is 25.5 °C and relative humidity is 75% - 80% in the wet season.
The vegetation is predominantly a degraded and semi-deciduous forest. The forest consists of limited species of hardwood which are harvested as lumber. The Municipality has nice scenery due to the hilly nature of the environment.


== References ==


== Sources ==
"Obuasi Municipal District". Statoids.
GhanaDistricts.com

Alamogordo Daily News, founded in 1898, is a daily newspaper published in Alamogordo, New Mexico, United States. 
The paper was an evening paper until September 1, 2006, published weekday evenings and Sunday mornings. It then switched to a morning paper, published daily except Mondays. In March 2024, the newspaper announced it would switch from carrier to postal delivery.


== History ==
In August 1896, the Tularosa Chief was first published in Tularosa, New Mexico. It was founded by J.H. Lightfoot. In November 1897, the paper relocated to La Luz and was renamed to the Sacramento Chief. It relocated again to Alamogordo a year later. In 1899, the Alamogordo Printing Company acquired the paper and renamed it to the Alamogordo News. W.S. Shepherd soon acquired the paper.
In December 1912, the Alamogordo News and Otero County Advertiser merged to form the Alamogordo News-Advertiser. Charles. P. Downs was editor. In January 1914, Clarence W. Morgan took charge of the paper and renamed it to the Otero County News. The name was later changed back to the Alamogordo News. In 1922, the paper absorbed the Alamogordo Cloudcrofter. It continued as a weekly until the 1950s when it went daily.
In March 1953, C.W. Morgan died. That December, the Morgan family sold the paper to Billie Holder and Rolland Jacquart. Three years later Holder bought out Jacquart. Aubrey Dunn Sr. was soon hired as the paper's business manager and eventually became co-owner. He served for 15 years in the New Mexico Senate but abruptly resigned in 1979 to focus on the paper.
After Holder and Dunn, the News was acquired by several chains, including Donrey Media Group in 1983, Community Newspaper Holdings in 1998, MediaNews Group in 2001, Gannett in 2015, and El Rito Media, LLC in 2024.


== See also ==

Aubrey Dunn, Sr., New Mexico state senator and partial owner of Alamogordo Daily News
Atari video game burial, which was first reported on by the Alamogordo Daily News


== Notes ==


== External links ==
Official website
Official mobile website[link removed]

The Men's omnium competition at the 2020 UCI Track Cycling World Championships was held on 29 February 2020.


== Results ==


=== Scratch race ===
The race was started at 12:12.


=== Tempo race ===
The tempo race was started at 14:35.


=== Elimination race ===
The elimination race was started at 17:51.


=== Points race and overall standings ===
The race was started at 19:02.


== References ==

Charles Hirsch Schneer (May 5, 1920 – January 21, 2009) was an American film producer and writer, best known for the 12 films he produced with stop motion animator and special effects creator Ray Harryhausen from 1955-1981. He is credited with coining the term "Dynamation" to describe the advanced form of stop motion model animation Harryhausen developed, which resulted in superior compositing of animated and live action elements than had previously been possible.


== Life and career ==
Born in Norfolk, Virginia, he graduated from Columbia University in 1940. Serving in the U.S. Army's Signal Corps Photographic Unit during the War, he moved to Hollywood following demobilization.


=== Sam Katzman ===
Schneer joined Columbia Pictures, where he wrote the script for the Robin Hood film The Prince of Thieves (1948) for Sam Katzman. He later adapted Byron's The Corsair for Katzman but it was not made.
Schneer was credited as associate producer on Katzman's The 49th Man (1953).
Schneer worked as a producer on the TV series The Web (1954)


=== Ray Harryhausen ===
Schneer was introduced to Harryhausen by a mutual friend from Schneer's period in the Army.
Together the two men created It Came from Beneath the Sea (1955) (originally Monster from Beneath the Sea), about a giant octopus that wreaks havoc on the Golden Gate Bridge. To save money, the octopus had only six tentacles, which Schneer is reported to have been correct in claiming no one would notice. This film made use of stop-motion photography which the two men were to use to greater effect in later films.
"He was a typical producer", Harryhausen says, "although he didn’t smoke big black cigars." Schneer would produce all Harryhausen's films except One Million Years B.C. (1967).
Harryhausen and Scheer next worked together on Earth vs. the Flying Saucers (1957) which Schneer produced.


=== Morningside Productions ===
In 1956, it was announced Schneer was considering joining RKO but changed his mind and signed a new three-picture deal with Columbia for his Morningside Productions.
Schneer made the romantic drama Hellcats of the Navy (1957) with Ronald Reagan and his wife (billed as Nancy Davis); it was the first time Schneer worked with director Nathan H. Juran. He followed it with 20 Million Miles to Earth (1958) with Harryhausen, directed by Juran.
In March 1957 Schneer signed a new three pictures deal with Columbia. He produced a noir, The Case Against Brooklyn (1958), and a war film, Tarawa Beachhead (1958), both directed by Paul Wendkos. More popular than either was The 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958) with Harryhausen, directed by Juran and starring Kerwin Mathews, who had been in Tarawa.
Schneer made two Westerns with Fred MacMurray, Good Day for a Hanging (1959) (directed by Juran) and Face of a Fugitive (1959) (directed by Wendkos).
In May 1959 it was announced Schneer would make nine films for Columbia, including Battle of the Coral Sea, I Aim at the Stars, Mysterious Island, Gulliver's Travels and Air Force Academy. He started the new contract with Battle of the Coral Sea (1960), directed by Wendkos. Air Force Academy was never made.


=== London ===
In 1960, Schneer moved his base of operations to London, where he remained for 45 years. He produced a biopic of Wernher von Braun, I Aim at the Stars (1960), directed by J. Lee Thompson, and the fantasy The 3 Worlds of Gulliver (1961), starring Kerwin Matthews.
Mysterious Island (1961), directed by Cy Endfield was an adaptation of the Jules Verne novel, with Harryhausen effects. Gentleman to China with Lloyd Nolan was announced but never made.
Schneer had one of his biggest successes with Jason and the Argonauts (1963), again with Harryhausen; the screenwriter was Beverley Cross who worked with Schneer on many future projects.
Schneer produced a medieval swashbuckler, Siege of the Saxons (1963) then an Imperial adventure, East of Sudan (1963), both directed by Juran. He was reunited with Harryhausen for First Men in the Moon (1964), also from Juran.
Schneer produced a "swinging sixties" comedy directed by Michael Winner, You Must Be Joking! (1965), and the film version of the stage musical Half a Sixpence (1967) starring Tommy Steele. Fifth Paw of the Lion was announced but not made.
In Spain, he produced a Western, Land Raiders (1970), then returned to fantasy for The Valley of Gwangi (1969), with Harryhausen. The Executioner (1970), directed by Sam Wanamaker was a thriller.


=== Later Films ===
Schneer made three more films with Harryhausen: The Golden Voyage of Sinbad (1973), directed by Gordon Hessler; Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger (1977), directed by Wanamaker; and Clash of the Titans (1981), directed by Desmond Davis.
Harryhausen later said the secret to his success with Schneer was "never agreeing... We were together for a long time. Charles always had a great sympathy for fantasy. We had many disagreements, which brings up that old saying, "if two people think exactly alike, one of them is unnecessary." So we battled out many things in the name of the film, and in the end we'd come to a compromise."
Schneer died in Boca Raton, Florida, aged 88.


== Filmography ==


== References ==


== Notes ==
Swires, Steve (January 1990). "Mentor to the Magicks Part One". Starlog. No. 150. p. 57–72.
Swires, Steve (February 1990). "Mentor to the Magicks Part Two". Starlog. p. 65–68,70.
Swirds, Steve (March 1990). "Mentor to the Magicks Part Three". Starlog. p. 65–68,71.


== External links ==
Charles H. Schneer at IMDb
Obituary at Aintitcool news
Obituary at Cinefantastique

Dehydration is the excessive loss of body water.
Dehydration or water loss may also refer to other cases of water loss/removal (sometimes colloquially):

Drying, the removal of water through chemical or physical means
Desiccation, sometimes synonymous with drying, sometimes an extreme form of it
Food drying, food preservation by dehydration
Dehydration reaction, a chemical reaction
Dryness (medical) of skin, etc.


== See also ==
Dehydrogenation

Joseph Mozier (August 22, 1812 – October 3, 1870) was an American sculptor active in Italy. He was born in Burlington, Vermont, in 1812. In 1831 he moved to New York City, where he worked as a merchant. He retired from business around 1845, and shortly afterward went to Europe, studying sculpture for several years in Florence, after which he moved to Rome.
His best-known work is Undine, the title character in the novella by Friedrich de la Motte Fouqué, a water nymph who falls in love with a man. He won a grand prize for it in Rome in 1867. He made a short visit to the United States in 1870, and was hospitalized upon his return in London, England. He died in Faido, Switzerland, while en route to his home in Italy.


== Selected works ==
Bust of Pocahontas (1848), Peabody Institute, Baltimore, Maryland. A replica at University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia.
Bust of Diana (c. 1850), Locust Lawn Estate, New Paltz, New York.
Pocahontas (1854), Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois. A replica at Lockwood–Mathews Mansion, Norwalk, Connecticut.
Truth (1855), Chrysler Museum of Art, Norfolk, Virginia.
Silence (1855), Chrysler Museum of Art, Norfolk, Virginia.
Rebecca at the Well (1855), Chrysler Museum of Art, Norfolk, Virginia. Replicas at New York Historical Society, New York City; Indiana State Museum, Indianapolis, Indiana; Patterson Public Library, Paterson, New Jersey; and Crocker Art Museum, Sacramento, California.
The American Schoolboy (Young America) (1857), Redwood Library and Athenaeum, Newport, Rhode Island. A replica at Chrysler Museum of Art, Norfolk, Virginia.
The Prodigal Son (c. 1857), Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Indian Girl's Lament (1858), Cammie G. Henry Research Center, Northwestern State University, Natchitoches, Louisiana. A replica at Hearst Castle, San Simeon, California.
Queen Esther (c. 1858).
The Wept of the Wish-ton-Wish (1862), Lockwood–Mathews Mansion, Norwalk, Connecticut. Replicas at Yale University Art Gallery, New Haven, Connecticut; Chrysler Museum of Art, Norfolk, Virginia; and Arnot Art Museum, Elmira, New York.
Jephthah's Daughter (1865),
Il Penseroso (1866), Smithsonian American Art Museum, Washington, D.C.
Undine (1867), Colby College Museum of Art, Waterville, Maine. Replicas at Chrysler Museum of Art, Norfolk, Virginia; and Boll Theatre, University of Dayton, Dayton, Ohio.
The Peri (c. 1867), Acklen Mausoleum, Mount Olivet Cemetery, Nashville, Tennessee.
Flower Girl (Springtime) (1867), Smithsonian American Art Museum, Washington, D.C. A replica at Hudson River Museum, Yonkers, New York.
The Vigil of Rizpah (1869), Spanierman Gallery, New York City.
The White Lady of Avenel (1869), Chrysler Museum of Art, Norfolk, Virginia. Replicas at Newark Museum, Newark, New Jersey; and University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia.
Thomas Moore as a Boy (1870), Arnot Art Museum, Elmira, New York.


== References ==

Appleton's Cyclopedia of American Biography, edited by James Grant Wilson and John Fiske, New York: D. Appleton and Company, 1887-1889.
Madeleine B. Stern, "New England Artists in Italy 1835-1855", The New England Quarterly, Vol. 14, No. 2 (Jun., 1941), pp. 243–271.
"Joseph Mozier" from AskArt.


== External links ==
Art and the empire city: New York, 1825-1861, an exhibition catalog from The Metropolitan Museum of Art (fully available online as PDF), which contains material on Mozier (see index)
Joseph Mozier from SIRIS.

Raivis Belohvoščiks (born 21 January 1976) is a Latvian former professional road cyclist who specialized in individual time trial events. He is ten-time Latvian national time trial champion. In 2006 he signed a 2-year contract with UCI ProTour team Saunier Duval–Prodir, but this was not renewed for the 2009 season. In 2010, he rode for Ceramica Flaminia. He didn't achieve any major results in his first Tour de France. He was 40th in the first time trial around Metz. He was one of the major victims of the Passage du Gois in stage 2, and arrived last in stage 6 to Maubeuge. He left the race during the stage (10) to L'Alpe d'Huez.


== Major results ==


=== Grand Tour general classification results timeline ===


== References ==
Profile at Saunier Duval-Prodir official website
Raivis Belohvoščiks at Cycling Archives (archive)

Oconto Falls is a city in Oconto County, Wisconsin, United States. The population was 2,957 at the 2020 census. It is part of the Green Bay metropolitan area.


== History ==
The city was named for the original waterfalls on the Oconto River. According to Menominee storytelling, Manabozho threw a falls across the Oconto River "to protect the Menominee and to keep the sturgeon from getting to the Chippewa".
John and Almira Volk are considered the first European settlers of Oconto Falls, having moved to the region in 1846. Most early settlers were of German, Polish, and French descent. The Volk family established a sawmill along the river, and the lumber industry became the main source of employment.
A post office called Oconto Falls has been in operation since 1871, the same year the Peshtigo Fire destroyed a majority of buildings in the village. Later, a Methodist congregation was the first to build a church in 1889. The first bridge across the river was built in 1896, and in 1902, the falls was dammed to create a power source.
Shortly thereafter, Oconto Falls incorporated as a village on July 3, 1903. Anton Gustin, of Austrian heritage, came to the village and established a new pulp mill in 1908. It was constructed using his improved sulphate pulping process, which made Oconto Falls the location of the first commercial production of kraft paper in the United States. The village became a city in 1919.


== Geography ==
Oconto Falls is located at 44°52′29″N 88°8′34″W (44.874989, -88.1429).
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 2.95 square miles (7.64 km2), of which 2.73 square miles (7.07 km2) is land and 0.22 square miles (0.57 km2) is water.
The city is separated into eastern and western sides by the Oconto River.


== Demographics ==


=== 2010 census ===
As of the census of 2010, there were 2,891 people, 1,251 households, and 753 families living in the city. The population density was 1,059.0 inhabitants per square mile (408.9/km2). There were 1,333 housing units at an average density of 488.3 per square mile (188.5/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 95.9% White, 0.1% African American, 1.5% Native American, 0.4% Asian, 0.3% from other races, and 1.7% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino people of any race were 1.2% of the population.
There were 1,251 households, of which 33.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 40.3% were married couples living together, 14.5% had a female householder with no husband present, 5.4% had a male householder with no wife present, and 39.8% were non-families. 33.5% of all households were made up of individuals, and 12.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.24 and the average family size was 2.81.
The median age in the city was 38.1 years. 24.5% of residents were under the age of 18; 7.8% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 26.8% were from 25 to 44; 23.9% were from 45 to 64; and 17.2% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 47.7% male and 52.3% female.


=== 2000 census ===
As of the census of 2000, there were 2,843 people, 1,166 households, and 719 families living in the city. The population density was 1,056.5 people per square mile (408.1/km2). There were 1,231 housing units at an average density of 457.4 per square mile (176.7/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 98.21% White, 0.14% Black or African American, 0.49% Native American, 0.35% Asian, 0.11% from other races, and 0.70% from two or more races. 0.42% of the population were Hispanic or Latino of any race.
There were 1,166 households, out of which 32.5% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 46.6% were married couples living together, 10.5% had a female householder with no husband present, and 38.3% were non-families. 32.6% of all households were made up of individuals, and 15.9% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.35 and the average family size was 2.97.
In the city, the population was spread out, with 26.4% under the age of 18, 6.7% from 18 to 24, 28.7% from 25 to 44, 19.0% from 45 to 64, and 19.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 37 years. For every 100 females, there were 90.8 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 85.1 males.
The median income for a household in the city was $34,884, and the median income for a family was $41,107. Males had a median income of $32,386 versus $22,616 for females. The per capita income for the city was $17,170. About 5.9% of families and 9.5% of the population were below the poverty line, including 10.7% of those under age 18 and 12.2% of those age 65 or over.


== Education ==

Oconto Falls School District
Oconto Falls High School
Oconto Falls Elementary School
Washington Middle School
Abrams Elementary School
St. Anthony Catholic School
Jefferson Elementary School (closed 1996, demolished 2006)
Spruce Charter School (closed 2012)


== Notable people ==
Rusty Lemorande - director, screenwriter and actor


== References ==


== External links ==

Oconto Falls Area Chamber of Commerce
City of Oconto Falls
Oconto Falls Community Library
Sanborn fire insurance maps: 1904 1911 1919

City of Oconto Falls Website

A color gel or color filter (Commonwealth spelling: colour gel or colour filter), also known as lighting gel or simply gel, is a transparent colored material that is used in theater, event production, photography, videography and cinematography to color light and for color correction. Modern gels are thin sheets of polycarbonate, polyester or other heat-resistant plastics, placed in front of a lighting fixture in the path of the beam.
Gels have a limited life, especially in saturated colors (lower light transmission) and shorter wavelength (blues). The color will fade or even melt, depending upon the energy absorption of the color, and the sheet will have to be replaced. 
In permanent installations and some theatrical uses, colored glass filters or dichroic filter are used. The main drawbacks are additional expense and a more limited selection.


== History ==
In Shakespearean-era theater, red wine was used in a glass container as a light filter. In later days, colored water or silk was used to filter light in the theater. Later, a gelatin base became the material of choice. Gelatin gel was available at least until 1979. The name gel has continued to be used to the present day. Gelatin-based color media had no melting point, and the color was cast in the media as opposed to being coated on the surface. It would, however, char at high temperatures and become brittle once heated, so that it could not be handled once used in the lighting instrument.
By 1945, more heat-tolerant and self-extinguishing acetate-based through-dyed materials were being manufactured (marketed as Chromoid then Cinemoid by Strand Electric). In the U.S., Roscolene (acetate) was developed to deal with higher output light sources. Though cheaper, the acetate filters eventually fell out of favor with professional organizations since they could not withstand the higher temperatures produced by the tungsten halogen lamps that came into widespread use in the late 1960s. 
The acetate-based material was replaced by polycarbonates like Roscolar (mylar polycarbonate) and polyester-based filters. These materials have superior heat tolerance. Polyester having the highest melting point of 480 °F (249 °C). 
Often a surface coating was applied on a transparent film. The first dyed polyester gels were introduced by Berkey Colortran in 1969 as Gelatran, the original deep-dyed polyester. The Gelatran process is still used today to produce GAMColor (100% of the line) and Roscolux (about 30% of the line). Other color manufacturers, such as Lee Filters and Apollo Design Technology, use a surface applied dye. (Roscolux is 70% polycarbonate and 30% deep-dyed polyester.)
Almost every color manufacturer today uses either polycarbonate or polyester to manufacture their gels. Even today's gels can burn out (to lighten in color starting in the center) easily, rendering them useless. As instrument design improves, it has become a selling point on many lights to have as little heat radiating from the front of the fixture as possible to prevent burn-through, and keep stage equipment and actors cooler.

In the 1930s, Strand Electric of London provided the first numbering system for their swatches and with their agents in New York and Sydney, the numbering system went round the world. Remnants of this original filter color system exist in the color swatches of today (such as Deep Amber = No. 3; Primary Red = No. 6; Middle Rose = No. 10; Peacock Blue = No. 15; Primary Blue = No. 20; Primary Green = No. 39). 
In the theater, gels are typically available in single 20 in × 24 in (500 mm × 600 mm) sheets, which are then cut down to the appropriate size before use. The size originates from the gelatin days: it is the same as a standard baker's sheet, which was used to cast the sheets. In the film industry, gels are usually cut straight from rolls 24 or 48 in (600 or 1,200 mm) wide and 50 ft (15 m) long, as the size required may vary from a single practical halogen spotlight in a ceiling to a whole window.


== Colors ==
Similar colors may vary between different companies' formulations. For example, many have a color named "Bastard Amber", but the transmitted color spectrum may be different. For this reason it is often misleading to refer to gel colors by name. Even a familiar color name, like Steel Blue, transmits widely differing colored light in each manufacturer's line.  
By necessity, color gels are selected by specifying the manufacturer, line, color number, and name: Rosco Cinegel #3202 Full Blue CTB. 
Apollo Design Technology uses a four digit number based on the visible spectrum to designate and locate specific color transmissions. 
The GAMColor line from Rosco employs a three digit numbering system, organized by the wavelength of the principle color in the family, i.e.: Blues in the 800's with primary blue at 850 (though the manufacturer's numbers do not relate directly to any wavelength, transmission, or frequency). The same applies to Greens in the 600's, Reds in the 200's, etc.  
Rosco's Roscolux line is currently the oldest major line of color media,   . They started using only a two-digit numbering system, listing colors in no particular order. As the range demanded by designers increased and many more colors were offered in the 1970's and 1980's, two digits quickly proved inadequate. As a result the original scheme was overlaid by three-digit and eventually four-digit numbers in between the original two-digit colors in the line.  
Manufacturers produce swatch books, which contain a small sample of each color, along with the color name and manufacturer's catalogue number. Many manufacturers also provide spectral analysis for each color and transmission values, expressed as a percentage of light allowed to pass through the filter from the light source. Swatch books enable designers and technicians to have a true representation of the manufacturers' range of colors.
Many designers choose a limited color palette for generic applications because it is financially and logistically difficult to have access to all colors for a single show.

There are also gels for color correction, such as CTB (color temperature blue) and CTO (color temperature orange). Color correction gels alter or correct the color temperature of a light to more closely match the color temperature of a film negative or the white balance of a digital imager. Specifically CTB, which is blue in appearance, will correct tungsten lights that typically have a color temperature in the range of 3,200 to 5,700 kelvins to more closely match the color temperature of "daylight" negative, which is usually around 5,400 K (nominal daylight). CTO, which is orange in appearance, will correct a "daylight"-balanced light source (such as many common HMI bulbs) to match the color temperature of tungsten negative, which is typically 3,200 K. There are "half" and "quarter" variations of the common color correction gels. It is common to use color correction gels for artistic purposes and not just for negative-to-lightsource correction.
Most ranges of gels also include non-colored media, such as a variety of diffusion and directional "silk" materials to produce special lighting effects. "Opal" for example is an opalescent or translucent diffusion filter.
It is common for a gel manufacturer to publish the transmission coefficient or even the spectral transmittance curve in the swatch book and catalogs. A low transmittance gel will produce relatively little light on stage, but will cast a much more vivid color than a high transmission gel, because the colorfulness of a light source is directly related to narrowness of its spectral linewidth. Conversely, the flatter its curve becomes, the closer the gel is to a neutral density filter.


== See also ==
Photographic filter
Wratten number


== References ==

Jaida Marie Maclaren Lee (born January 1, 2006) is a Canadian professional baseball player. She is currently a pitcher for the New York Heights of the Women's Pro Baseball League. She plays for the Canadian women's national baseball team in international competitions. In 2022, at age 16, she became the first female to compete in men’s baseball at the Canada Summer Games.


== Early life ==
Lee was raised in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador, by Dave and Amanda Lee. She has two older brothers. Lee started playing baseball at 6 years old, and has been playing on boy's and men's baseball teams since the age of 10. She attended Gonzaga High School in St. John's.


== Career ==


=== Early career ===
Lee pitched for Newfoundland and Labrador's Female U-16 team in the 2021 Atlantic Female Under 16 Baseball Championship. During tournament, Lee was named Top Batter and Top Pitcher. Also in 2021, Lee was the only girl on the province's U-17 boys baseball team, where she pitched the team's win in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia.
Lee was named Female Athlete of the Year by Baseball NL in 2021.
Lee was invited and threw the ceremonial first pitch at the Toronto Blue Jays game versus the Cleveland Guardians on August 12, 2022, at the Rogers Centre.


=== Canada Summer Games ===
Selections for Team Newfoundland and Labrador began in 2019. Lee was 13 years old when she attended her first selections camp.
During the 2022 Canada Summer Games, Lee played with Team N.L.. Lee's first pitch was a strike. The ball, taken out of the game, will be on display at the Canadian Baseball Hall of Fame in St. Mary's, Ontario.


=== St. John's Amateur Baseball ===
Lee entered the predominantly male St. John's Amateur Baseball 2023 Intermediate Draft at the age of 17. The draft was held on May 25, 2023. Lee was selected 12th overall by the 2022 Intermediate League Champion Metro Property Management Knights, making her one of the highest drafted female players in the league's history behind Canadian women's national team member Heather Healey.


=== National team ===
In 2021, Lee was among 41 players invited to a women's national team showcase event in Trois Rivières, Quebec.
Lee was added to the Canadian women's national baseball team roster in time for the 2024 Women's Baseball World Cup group stage, played in August 2023. In the finals, Lee earned bronze with the rest of the Canadian team. 
Lee will play for Canada in the 2027 Women's Baseball World Cup.


=== Women's Pro Baseball League ===
In the inaugural Women's Pro Baseball League draft, Lee was fourteenth overall by the New York Heights (then named WPBL New York). She made her debut during the league's first game on August 1, 2026.


== References ==


== External links ==
Jaida Lee at WPBL

Primitive War: Opiate Undertow, originally released as Primitive War in early editions, is a 2017 self-published debut novel by American writer Ethan Pettus. The novel follows a group of American soldiers who encounter de-extinct dinosaurs in a jungle valley in Vietnam in 1968. It is the first book in the Primitive War series, and spawned a 2025 film of the same name.


== Plot summary ==
In 1968, in a jungle valley in Vietnam, a group of Green Berets led by Kendrick Anderson are ambushed, killed and eaten by unknown predators. Elsewhere, a pair of MACV-SOG agents codenamed Bishop and Ibex are alerted to a cache of barrels containing radioactive waste known as Polonium-T. Contacting General Jericho, they are informed that these shipments were what Anderson’s squad were tracking on Jericho's behalf. With Anderson's squad missing, Jericho recommends sending in Vulture Squad, a recon unit that specializes in rescuing war prisoners from Viet Cong and North Vietnamese Army prison camps.
Vulture Squad, consisting of Captain Ryan Baker, second-in-command Xavier Wise, rookie demolitions expert Leon Verne, marines Eli Taylor and Charlie Miller, and snipers Gerald Keyes and Logan Stovall, is called in by Jericho and given the mission of finding Anderson's missing platoon. Simultaneously, at the far end of the valley, USSR General Grigory Borodin, working on a Particle Collider for his country's government, has become aware of the Americans' presence. He sends a squad of Spetznaz soldiers known as the Dogs of War to hunt down and kill the Americans.
The Vulture Squad searches for the Green Berets, finding tracks and huge feathers belonging to an unknown animal. The group is ambushed by a predator, which they drive off. The squad presses on, unsure of what attacked them, before bedding down in a clearing for the night. The Soviet soldiers are ambushed by the same creature as they investigate the Americans' gunfire, which kills one of their men. Thinking the Americans are responsible, the Soviets vow revenge.
Meanwhile, Xavier spots predators in the trees while keeping watch, which are driven off by a larger creature that he hides from and recognizes as a Tyrannosaurus rex. Xavier, Ryan, and Leon escape from the Tyrannosaurus and its mate by falling off a cliff into a river. Ryan and Leon are rescued by a Soviet scientist, Andrei Wynn, who takes them to his hideout in an abandoned research station. Andre reveals that he was responsible for the presence of dinosaurs in the valley, having accidentally brought them there by opening a wormhole via the particle collider that Borodin is rebuilding. He explains the unseen predators to be Utahraptors. Ryan radios for help and negotiates an evacuation for his men in exchange for intel on the collider. He, Leon, and Andrei then set out to rescue the rest of Vulture Squad.
Meanwhile, the others survive a stampede of Stygimoloch being chased by Deinonychus. Gerald fights off multiple Deinonychus before being ambushed by a Utahraptor. He is wounded before being rescued by Logan and the reunited Vulture Squad. The squad returns to Andrei's research station, where they are attacked by the Utahraptor pack. During their escape to the helicopter, the raptors attack again, wounding Leon and nearly tearing Gerald in half before Logan mercy-kills him. The Tyrannosaurus returns as they escape in the helicopter, and a near-miss from a rocket launched by Viet Cong soldier Con Nhen knocks Miller and local trainee Nguyen out, and they are promptly captured by the Viet Cong.
Simultaneously, the Soviet squad is also attacked by Quetzalcoatlus and their leader is devoured. Vulture Squad returns to Jericho, where Leon is taken into surgery. Ryan comforts Logan and confronts Jericho, demanding reinforcements to mount a rescue mission and to stop Borodin. Andrei reveals to Ryan and Jericho that the Collider is meant for making antimatter that can be used to create radiation-free nuclear weapons, and that its continued use might result in a black hole. Vulture Squad sets out to rescue Miller by boat, with Leon remaining behind to recover. En route, they encounter a herd of Triceratops, which are attacked by Kaprosuchus. Logan sacrifices himself to draw the Kaprosuchus away and is eaten alive. Meanwhile, Miller, having been tortured by Con Nhen, escapes, frees Nguyen, kills Con Nhen and his forces, and destroys the Viet Cong base and its Polonium-T shipments in a suicide attack just before Vulture Squad can rescue him.
Back at Jericho's base, a pair of Quetzalcoatlus attack, killing nearly everyone except for Leon, which the remaining members of the Soviet squad use as a diversion to capture and kidnap Jericho. Despite Leon's injuries, he and Bishop's squad use Vulture Squad's helicopter to pick up the team and head to the Soviet base. The Soviets are attacked by the Tyrannosaurus parents after their soldiers kill one of their chicks. Borodin flees as his base and men are ravaged by the theropods, who then chase after him. Ryan rallies his team to rescue Jericho. When the squad arrive at the Soviet base, they find it destroyed. Bishop's team is killed by scavenging Utahraptors. The Soviet soldier Sergei, wanting to prevent the collider's further use, helps prime it to explode. Ryan dies fighting a Utahraptor, giving his men enough time to escape, while a dying Sergei sets off the explosives and destroys the collider. Borodin, running away from the Tyrannosaurus parents, is ambushed by the surviving Utahraptors, and is eaten alive by their chicks when he is taken back to their nest.
A year later, Leon has been sent stateside on a college scholarship, Eli is the new Captain of Vulture Squad, and Xavier is now the commander of Stalker Force with Andrei joining him. Their goal is to contain the dinosaurs in the Valley and to exterminate the Utahraptors. The other dinosaurs in the valley, including the Tyrannosaurus parents, are contained behind a perimeter of concrete and electric fence. However, Stalker Force find the final Utahraptor nesting ground abandoned, as it is revealed the raptors have found a way to escape.


== Dinosaur accuracy ==
Primitive War has been celebrated for its scientifically informed dinosaur designs; the Deinonychus and Utahraptor, for example, are covered in feathers. There is a heavy amount of speculation within the behavior and appearances, however. Kaprosuchus, for example, does not have any leg material preserved, so the depiction as long-legged pursuit predators is not completely known. The Quetzalcoatlus tongue, used as an extra appendage, is also speculation, as well as the then-popular depiction of Tyrannosaurus covered in grizzled feathers. Of course, these are things that are not known completely, and speculation within paleoart or paleo media is healthy. The inclusion of Stygimoloch as a separate genus is somewhat different, as it has been synonymous with a contemporaneous animal, Pachycephalosaurus, for many years.


== Sequels ==
Multiple sequels have thus far been created for the Primitive War franchise, with three published and more on the way according to Ethan Pettus himself. The first sequel, titled The Primitive War Dispatches: The Hunting of Stalker Force, was published in 2019. The next sequel, Primitive War II: Animus Infernal, which takes place during the Angolan War of Independence, was published in 2020. A third book, titled The Primitive War Dispatches Volume II: The Psalms of Xipetotec, was released in May 2025. The third book takes place between the events of The Hunting of Stalker Force and Primitive War II. A book titled Primitive War: Aeon Ourobouros, is also being written, along with Primitive War Dispatches 3 and 4. A field guide written by Pettus and illustrated by Bruno Hernandez regarding the creatures of the first book and the first volume of the Primitive War Dispatches, titled The Primitive War Bestiary, was also published, and a comic adaption, illustrated by Babisu Kourtis, is actively being worked on.


== Film adaptation ==

In February 2022, it was announced that Sparke Films and its founder, Luke Sparke, had secured the rights to a film adaptation of the novel, with Ethan Pettus helping co-write the film's script. Luke Sparke was announced to be directing the film. He pitched the film to multiple Hollywood film studios, but was rejected by each one because they considered the pitch to be too similar to the Jurassic World franchise. He ultimately began developing the film independently with a budget of around $7 million.
In April 2024, Ryan Kwanten, Tricia Helfer, Nick Wechsler, and Jeremy Piven were cast as the film's leads. Filming took place on the Gold Coast, Queensland.
First look images and a poster of the film were released by Collider in August 2024. When interviewed on why he chose to adapt the Primitive War novel into a film, Sparke stated, "I was captivated by the imagery surrounding Ethan’s book and the story it told. I’ve worked hard on capturing that essence but also the grittiness, horror aspects and military edge. My vision is to feel like the characters have walked out of the film Platoon and into the jaws of the greatest predators the planet has ever known."
Primitive War was theatrically released by Rialto Distribution in Australia on 21 August 2025. The film received a limited theatrical release on the same day in the United States by Fathom Entertainment.


== References ==

Xestia liquidaria is a species of cutworm or dart moth in the family Noctuidae. It is found in Europe and Northern Asia (excluding China) and North America.
The MONA or Hodges number for Xestia liquidaria is 10934.


== References ==


== Further reading ==

Sergey Alexandrovich Mozgov (Russian: Серге́й Александрович Мозгов; born 10 March 1995) is a Russian retired competitive ice dancer. With former partner Betina Popova, he is the 2017 CS Warsaw Cup champion. With former partner Anna Yanovskaya, he was the 2015 World Junior champion, two-time (2013, 2014) JGP Final champion, the 2012 Youth Olympics champion, the 2014 World Junior silver medalist, and the 2015 Russian junior national champion.


== Early career ==
Mozgov began skating in 1999. His parents introduced him to skating to improve his health. Early in his career, he competed with Sabina Adigamova.
Mozgov and Evgenia Kosigina made their international debut in the 2008–09 season. The following season, they received a Junior Grand Prix (JGP) assignment in Hungary, where they placed fifth. He ended their partnership after they finished 12th at the 2010 Russian Junior Championships.
In the 2010–11 season, Mozgov competed with Tatiana Baturintseva. They received no JGP assignments and parted ways after placing 9th at the 2011 Russian Junior Championships.


== Partnership with Yanovskaya ==
Mozgov teamed up with Anna Yanovskaya in 2011. They were coached mainly by Svetlana Alexeeva at the Medvedkovo rink in Moscow.


=== 2011–12 season: First season together ===
Yanovskaya/Mozgov won the bronze medal at their first Junior Grand Prix event, in Gdańsk, Poland, and then gold in Tallinn, Estonia. Their placements qualified them for the Junior Grand Prix Final, where they placed second in the short dance, third in the free, and took the silver medal ahead of Alexandra Stepanova / Ivan Bukin. After winning the gold medal at the 2012 Winter Youth Olympics, they placed fourth at the 2012 Russian Junior Championships. At the 2012 World Junior Championships, they were third in the short dance. During the free dance the referee stopped their music because Mozgov's left bootstrap had come loose. Yanovskaya/Mozgov finished fourth overall behind American ice dancers Alexandra Aldridge / Daniel Eaton who moved up the rankings and took the bronze medal.


=== 2012–13 season ===
In 2012–13, Yanovskaya/Mozgov won a pair of silver medals at JGP events in Austria and Slovenia and qualified for the JGP Final in Sochi, Russia, where they finished fourth. They won the bronze medal at the 2013 Russian Junior Championships.


=== 2013–14 season: First JGP Final title ===
In 2013–14, Yanovskaya/Mozgov began their season by taking gold at the 2013 JGP Slovakia in Košice. They won another gold at the 2013 JGP Estonia, qualifying them for their third JGP Final in Fukuoka, Japan. Setting personal bests, Yanovskaya/Mozgov placed first in both segments at the final and won the gold medal ahead of Kaitlin Hawayek / Jean-Luc Baker. After placing second to Stepanova/Bukin at the 2014 Russian Junior Championships, they took the silver medal at the 2014 World Junior Championships in Sofia, finishing second to Hawayek/Baker.


=== 2014–15 season: World Junior title ===
Yanovskaya/Mozgov decided to remain in the junior ranks in the 2014–15 season. In addition to Moscow, they also trained in Liepāja in the summer. Mozgov recovered from a knee injury early in the season. In the 2014–15 JGP series, the duo won gold medals in Estonia and Croatia, earning qualification to their fourth JGP Final. At the event, held in December in Barcelona, they outscored Alla Loboda / Pavel Drozd for the gold and stood atop the podium for the second consecutive year. In March, they competed at the 2016 World Junior Championships in Tallinn, Estonia. Ranked first in both segments, they were awarded the gold medal ahead of Lorraine McNamara / Quinn Carpenter.


=== 2015–16 season: Senior debut and split ===
Although still age-eligible for junior events in the 2015–16 season, Yanovskaya/Mozgov decided to move up to the senior ranks. Debuting on the Grand Prix, they placed sixth at the 2015 Skate America and 2015 Trophée Éric Bompard. In December, they finished sixth at the 2016 Russian Championships in Yekaterinburg. On 2 May 2016, the Russian media reported that their partnership had ended.


== Partnership with Popova ==
According to the Russian media, Mozgov has teamed up with Betina Popova.
Popova/Mozgov made their international debut at the 2016 CS Golden Spin of Zagreb where they placed fifth.


=== 2017–18 season ===
In 2017–18 season they competed at three ISU Challenger Series competitions. They won the gold medal at the 2017 CS Warsaw Cup with a personal best score of 164.07 points. They also won the bronze medal at the 2017 CS Ondrej Nepela Trophy. At the 2017 CS Finlandia Trophy they placed fifth.
In October 2017 they made their Grand Prix debut at the 2017 Rostelecom Cup where they placed sixth. In December 2017 they competed at the 2018 Russian Championships where they placed fourth after placing fifth in the short dance and third in the free dance.
In May 2018 Anjelika Krylova and Oleg Volkov became their new coaches.


=== 2018–19 season ===
Popova/Mozgov started their season in mid September at the 2018 CS Ondrej Nepela Trophy where they won the bronze medal with a personal best score of 170.47 points. In early November they placed seventh at the 2018 Grand Prix of Helsinki. Three weeks later they finished eighth at the 2018 Internationaux de France. In early December they won their second Challenger Series bronze medal of the season at the 2018 CS Golden Spin of Zagreb.
They placed fourth at the Russian Championships for the second consecutive year.
In March, Popova/Mozgov have participated in the 2019 Winter Universiade in Krasnoyarsk Russia. They finished first in the short and second in the free, earning the gold medal with a total of 183.01 points.


=== 2019–20 season ===
Popova/Mozgov took time off to heal injuries following their Universiade victory, and then resumed training for the new season.  The two selected "Bohemian Rhapsody" as their free dance music, believing it would be a new sort of material for them.  They placed fourth at the 2019 CS Ondrej Nepela Memorial and then won the bronze medal at the 2019 CS Finlandia Trophy.  Given one Grand Prix assignment, they placed eighth at the 2019 Skate Canada International.
Popova/Mozgov announced their retirement from competition on February 14, 2020.  Mozgov indicated that he might seek a coaching career.


== Programs ==


=== With Popova ===


=== With Yanovskaya ===


== Competitive highlights ==
GP: Grand Prix; CS: Challenger Series; JGP: Junior Grand Prix


=== With Popova ===


=== With Yanovskaya ===


=== With Baturintseva ===


=== With Kosigina ===


== Detailed results ==
Small medals for short and free programs awarded only at ISU Championships. At team events, medals awarded for team results only.


=== With Popova ===


=== With Yanovskaya ===


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Sergey Mozgov at Wikimedia Commons

Betina Popova / Sergey Mozgov at the International Skating Union
Anna Yanovskaya / Sergey Mozgov at the International Skating Union
Evgenia Kosigina / Sergei Mozgov at the International Skating Union

Julia Tertulla was a Roman woman who lived in the 1st century and 2nd century in the Roman Empire. Tertulla was the daughter of suffect consul Gaius Julius Cornutus Tertullus and the identity of her mother is unknown. Tertulla was born and raised in Perga, the capital of the Roman province of Pamphylia. She was the paternal aunt to Gaius Julius Plancius Varus Cornutus.
She married Lucius Julius Marinus Caecilius Simplex, a Roman Senator. He was Proconsul of Lycia et Pamphylia from 96-98 and served as a consul in 101 during the reign of the Roman Emperor Trajan in Rome. In the city of Tlos, Lycia there is an honorary inscription dedicated to her as the wife of Caecilius Simplex. This dedication was most probably done when her husband served as a legatus Augusti in that province.


== References ==


== Sources ==
Shelagh Jameson, "Cornutus Tertullus and the Plancii of Perge", Journal of Roman Studies, 55 (1965), pp. 54–58
Jones, Brian W. (1992). The Emperor Domitian, Routledge
Grainger, John D. (2003). Nerva and the Roman succession Crisis AD 96-99. London, New York: Routledge. pp. xvi. ISBN 0-415-28917-3. OCLC 52012210.

Vealmoor, Texas is an unincorporated area and small community in Howard County, Texas, United States.


== History ==
The land was acquired by C. C. Slaughter in the 1880s. It was on his Lazy S Ranch.
In the early 1920s, Slaughter's sons Robert Lee Slaughter and Dick Slaughter, his daughter Minnie Slaughter Veal, and developer William P. Soash founded the new town via their Lone Star Land Company. The town had a post office by 1926.
The town had 190 inhabitants by 1966 and 179 by 2000.


== Education ==
All of Howard County is in the service area of Howard County Junior College District.


== References ==

Kamran Bayram oglu Aliyev (Azerbaijani: Kamran Bayram oğlu Əliyev) is a Prosecutor General of the Republic of Azerbaijan (since 2020) and a vice-president of the International Association of Prosecutors, State Judicial Adviser of the first class (2021).


== Biography ==
Kamran Aliyev was born in Balaken on November 18, 1965. In 1987, he graduated from the Faculty of Law of Irkutsk State University. In 1993, he received a PhD in law. Then Kamran Aliyev joined the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Azerbaijan. In 2007, he was appointed Director of the Anti-Corruption Department of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Azerbaijan. On May 1, 2020, he was appointed as the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Azerbaijan. On November 23, 2021, he was appointed as a of State Adviser of Justice of the first degree.
After his first term as Prosecutor General concluded on May 1, 2025, the Milli Majlis approved his reappointment to the post on the recommendation of the President of Azerbaijan.


== References ==

The men's 4 × 400 metres relay at the 2024 World Athletics Relays has been held at the Thomas Robinson Stadium on 4 and 5 May.


== Records ==
Prior to the competition, the records were as follows:


== Program ==
Heats: Saturday 4 May 2024, 21:51
Repechage: Sunday 5 May 2024, 21:08
Final:	Sunday 5 May 2024, 22:20


== Results ==


=== Heats ===
The top two per heat earned automatic Olympic qualification and advancement to the finals. All other teams had a second chance at Olympic qualification in the repechage round the following day.


=== Repechage Olympic qualifying round ===
The repechage round consisted of all countries which did not qualify for the finals. The top two countries in each repechage heat qualified for the 2024 Olympics, however there was no path for the repechage teams to qualify for the World Relays finals later in the day.


=== Final ===
Results 
Start list
Race Analysis


== References ==

Results
"World Athletics Relays Bahamas 24 | Results | World Athletics". worldathletics.org. Retrieved 2024-05-06.


== Notes ==

Virginia Lago (born 22 May 1946) is an Argentine actress with an extensive career in theater, film, and television. She is best known for being the host of the popular film series Historias de corazón, broadcast by Telefe.


== Biography ==
Virginia Lago was born in San Martín in the north of Greater Buenos Aires on 22 May 1946. Until age 20 she resided in Villa Ballester. She attended primary school at Roberto Noble School No. 11, and Tomás Guido secondary school in San Martín. She is the cousin of actress Zully Moreno and the aunt of actress Fabiana García Lago.
In 1963 she had a prominent performance in the play Pygmalion. She studied Theater with Marcelo Lavalle and Roberto Durán at the Institute of Modern Art and learned from many other actors. In 1966 she appeared on the well-received program Galería Polyana, which was broadcast on weekdays from May to October on Channel 9 with scripts by the theatrical author Clara Giol Bressan and a cast that included Susana Campos, Fanny Navarro, Enzo Viena, Ricardo Passano, Patricia Shaw, Aída Luz, María José Demare, Nelly Darén, and Gloria Raines.


== Internet meme ==
As a result of the series that Virginia Lago hosted on Telefe, around March 2012, her image became the subject of an Internet meme in which her way of speaking and acting is parodied. Videos in which she is imitated have circulated on YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter. In the parodies, emphasis is placed on Lago's unhurried tone, the diminutives and temperance in her speech, and her recurring catchphrase ¡maravilloso! (wonderful) to describe a situation. Lago acknowledged that she initially cried about these jokes, but then took them with humor.


== Career ==


=== Television ===


== Awards and nominations ==


=== Martín Fierro Awards ===
1990: Winner of Best Supporting Actress for La bonita página
1991: Nominated for Best Supporting Actress for Cosecharás tu siembra
2006: Nominated for Best Supporting Actress in Drama for Montecristo
2008: Winner of Best Supporting Actress in Drama for Mujeres de nadie
2011: Nominated for Best Leading Actress in Special or Miniseries for Decisiones de vida
2013: Winner of Best Female Host for Historias de corazón


=== Other awards ===
1984: Sea Star Award for Best Actress
1984: Prensario Award for Best Actress
1991: Diploma of Merit, Individual Category, from the Konex Foundation
1999: Podestá Award from the Argentine Actors Association
2009: José María Vilches Award for Por el placer de volver a verla
2012: Sea Star Award for Vivir en vos
2013: Clare of Assisi Career Award


== References ==


== External links ==

Virginia Lago at IMDb

The 156th Wing is a unit of the Puerto Rico Air National Guard (PR ANG), stationed at Muñiz Air National Guard Base, in Carolina, Puerto Rico. If activated to federal service with the United States Air Force, the wing is operationally gained by the Air Mobility Command (AMC). It was first activated as the 156th Tactical Fighter Group in 1962.
The wing's flying unit, the 198th Airlift Squadron (198 AS), was inactivated circa 2019. 


== Units ==
The 156th Airlift Wing consists of the following major units:

156th Operations Group
156th Contingency Response Group
156th Mission Support Group
156th Medical Group


== History ==


=== Tactical Fighter mission ===

On 15 October 1962, the Puerto Rico Air National Guard was expanded to a Group status, and the 156th Tactical Fighter Group (156 TFG) was recognized and activated by the National Guard Bureau.  The 156th was transferred to the operational claimancy of the Tactical Air Command (TAC), with the 198th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron being reassigned from Air Defense Command (ADC), becoming a tactical fighter squadron as the 198 TFS assigned to the 156 TFG.  Other squadrons assigned into the group were the 156th Headquarters, 156th Material Squadron (Maintenance), 156th Combat Support Squadron, and the 156th USAF Dispensary.  With the transfer to TAC, the 198th TFS received F-86H Sabre tactical fighters.
In 1967, F-104C Starfighers (and an F-104D two-seat trainer) were assigned to the 156th, upgrading the group to Mach-2 supersonic tactical fighter-bombers, replacing the elderly F-86H Sabre fighter-bombers.  The F-104C was equipped to carry bombs or rocket pods on under-wing and fuselage points. The upward-firing Lockheed C-2 rocket-boosted ejector seat was standard. The internal 20-mm rotary cannon of the F-104A was retained, as well as the ability to carry an AIM-9 Sidewinder air-to-air missile on each wingtip to fill an air defense interceptor mission.
In 1975, the F-104s were retired, the 198th being the last USAF unit to fly the Starfighter.  The F-104s were replaced by A-7D Corsair II attack aircraft.  Although designed primarily as a ground attack aircraft, it also had limited air-to-air combat capability.

On 12 January 1981, the Boricua Popular Army, also known as the Macheteros, a group of home grown Marxist aligned Puerto Rican terrorists advocating separation from the United States and establishment of Puerto Rico as an independent nation, infiltrated Muñiz Air National Guard Base.  Armed with pipe bombs, they destroyed or damaged a total of eleven PR ANG aircraft: ten A-7D Corsair IIs and a single F-104 Starfighter being retained for eventual static display as a memorial.  The terrorist attack was the largest on any U.S. Air Force installation since the Vietnam War, although the ongoing hostage situation in Iran at the time overshadowed this incident in the news media.  The eleven Air National Guard jets at Muñiz Air National Guard Base were alleged by socialist organizations to be destined for use against popular insurgents in El Salvador. These allegations were never proven and may have been self-serving propaganda.
At the time, the 156 TFG had a combination of both part-time Traditional Guardsmen (TG) and full-time Air Reserve Technicians (ART) and Active Guard and Reserve (AGR). 
The wing's official website writes:

At the time, the base had 25 pilots and 900 military personnel assigned. This loss was calculated at $45 million [dollar value at the time]. The security increased from 11 to 22 personnel with 100% federal funding. The Air Force/Air National Guard invested $5.5 million in Electronic Security Equipment (ESE), a Master Surveillance Control Facility (MSCF), and fencing to secure the flight line and operations area. In addition, Muñiz Air National Guard Base was provided a security police manpower package of 18 AGR security police personnel and 46 civilian contract guards.
On 1 August 1987, the 156th Tactical Fighter Group reorganized into a four-deputy structure according to the new Air National Guard policy where organizational structures would mirror the Regular Air Force and the then-Air Force Reserve.
The unit took part, from 24–28 June 1991, in Exercise GRANADA SOUTH in Panama.  From 11–18 August 1991, it deployed to Iquique, Chile for Exercise CONDOR II Exercise and then from 18–24 August 1991, to Asuncion with the Paraguayan Air Force for training. From 7–20 September 1991, it deployed to Exercise FORTUNATA II at Volk Field, Wisconsin and then again from 2–6 December 1991 for another GRANADA SOUTH exercise in Panama.
In March 1992, with the end of the Cold War, the 156th Tactical Fighter Group adopted the Air Force Objective Organization plan, and the unit was re-designated as the 156th Fighter Group (156 FG). A few months later, on 1 June 1992, Tactical Air Command (TAC) was inactivated as part of the Air Force reorganization after the end of the Cold War and was replaced by Air Combat Command (ACC), which became the 156th's new operational gaining command.
Also in 1992, the A-7Ds were also retired and were replaced by Block 15 F-16A/B Fighting Falcon aircraft modified for the Continental Air Defense mission.  The F-16ADF was a standard Block 15 model converted to air defense fighters for the Air National Guard and would take over the fighter interception mission, providing the primary defense of North America against bombers and cruise missiles.

From 20 February to 6 March 1993, the unit took part in the "Caminos de Paz" exercise at Golfito, and then deployed from 12–21 August 1993, to Asunción, Paraguay, marking its First F-16 Deployment. From 5–13 November 1994, the unit took part in the Condor III Exercise held in Iquique, Chile.
In October 1995, in accordance with the Air Force "One Base - One Wing" policy, the status of the 157th was upgraded to a wing status and redesignated as the 156th Fighter Wing (156 FW) with the 198th Fighter Squadron (198 FS) being assigned to the newly established 156th Operations Group (156 OG).


=== Airlift mission ===

On 22 November 1997, the 156 FW received its first C-130E Hercules aircraft, ostensibly as a single Operational Support Aircraft (OSA), while celebrating its 50th federal recognition anniversary.  On 10 February 1998, the Air Force announced the conversion of the 156th Fighter Wing from its F-16A and F-16B ADF fighter mission to an airlift mission with C-130E aircraft.  On 3 March 1998 the last F-16A departed from the 156th Fighter Wing and on 11 September 1998 a ceremony was held to mark the arrival of the first C-130E dedicated to the airlift mission. On 1 October 1998, the Department of the Air Force issued the official order designating the 156th Fighter Wing as 156th Airlift Wing (156 AW) and operational claimancy for the 156th was subsequently transferred to the Air Mobility Command (AMC).  The 198 FS was also redesignated as the 198th Airlift Squadron (198 AS).
Beginning in June 1999, the major mission for the 156 AW became support of Operation Coronet Oak, airlift for U.S. Southern Command in the command's Area of Responsibility (AOR). Coronet Oak was transferred from Howard AFB, Panama when that base was closed as part of the turnover of the Panama Canal. Coronet Oak missions ranged from U.S. embassy support throughout Central America and South America, to engagement with partner nation military forces, support humanitarian and disaster relief (HA/DR) missions, and other taskings, to include the ability to deliver U.S. special operations forces (SOF) to any location in theater, as directed by USSOUTHCOM.  In addition to the 156 AW, Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) and other Air National Guard (ANG) C-130 aircraft, aircrews and supporting personnel routinely deploy from the United States to Muniz ANGB to provide theater airlift support for USSOUTHCOM under Coronet Oak.  One C-130 of the 156 AW was on alert 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, in order to deliver SOF as required.
Coronet Oak aircraft would share the Muñiz ANGB flight line with the Puerto Rico Air National Guard.


==== Operational Challenges ====
The 156th retired the C-130Es in 2012, being one of the last units still operating the type.  Six WC-130Hs were transferred to the unit from the former 118th Airlift Wing (118 AW) of the Tennessee Air National Guard (TN ANG) as that unit transitioned to a remotely piloted aircraft (RPA) mission with the MQ-9 Predator.  The 118 AW had previously received these WC-130H aircraft from the 403rd Wing (403 WG) of the Air Force Reserve Command (AFRC) as that unit transitioned to the WC-130J and C-130J.
The problem with the WC-130H aircraft received by the PR ANG were multifold:
First, the WC-130H had been derived from former HC-130H CROWN aircraft, subsequently converted to HC-130P aircraft, that were considered excess at the end of the Vietnam War.  Built in the mid-1960s, they were effectively C-130E series airframes, not much different from the pure C-130E aircraft the 156 AW had just retired.
Secondly, modified and redesignated as WC-130H aircraft, they were configured as non-combat coded weather reconnaissance "Hurricane Hunter" aircraft. As such, they had not received the system and avionics upgrades added to combat coded C-130E and C-130H airlift aircraft.
In short, the WC-130Hs had simply been stripped of their weather reconnaissance equipment and configured for the cargo and passenger carrying theater airlift mission while still retaining their WC-130H mission design series (MDS) designation.  As of April 2018, U.S. Air Force and Air National Guard plans called for the 156 AW to eventually transition to combat coded C-130H2 aircraft that would be transferred from one or more AMC, AFRC and/or ANG C-130H airlift wings as those units transitioned to the C-130J Super Hercules aircraft.


==== WC-130H Fatal Aircraft Mishap ====
On 2 May 2018, a 198th Airlift Squadron flight crew was in the process of transferring a WC-130H, AF Ser. No. 65-0968, on its final flight to long-term storage with the 309th Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration Group (309 AMARG) at Davis-Monthan AFB, Arizona.  This flight included a stopover at Savannah Air National Guard Base at Savannah-Hilton Head International Airport, Georgia.  During takeoff roll, the aircraft sustained a malfunction in the Number 1 engine that was initially unrecognized by the crew.  Upon recognizing the engine problem, the crew failed to complete the Takeoff Continued After Engine Failure procedure, the Engine Shutdown procedure, and the After Takeoff checklist as directed by the aircraft's flight manual.  At approximately 900 feet mean sea level and 131 knots indicated air speed, the aircraft commander inputted over nine degrees of left rudder, turning into the malfunctioning engine that he had called for shutdown.  The aircraft skidded left, the left wing stalled, and the aircraft departed controlled flight and impacted the ground, destroying the aircraft and killing all flight crew and passengers.
The subsequent USAF Aircraft Accident Investigation Board Report stated that the mishap pilot's improper application of left rudder resulted in a subsequent skid below three-engine minimum controllable airspeed, a left-wing stall, and the mishap aircraft's departure from controlled flight.  In addition, it was found that aircraft commander's failure to reject the takeoff, the crew's failure to properly execute appropriate after takeoff and engine shutdown checklists and procedures, and the failure of 156 AW's aircraft maintenance personnel to properly diagnose and repair issues with the aircraft's Number 1 engine before releasing it for flight contributed to the mishap.  A culture of apathy and poor morale in the 156 AW, exacerbated by training, readiness and combat capability that had been often neglected and in decline for years, were also considered to be contributing factors in the Air Force's and the National Guard Bureau's decision to transition the 156th to a non-flying mission for the foreseeable future in order for the unit to regain its operational footing and mission focus.


=== Loss of flying mission ===
On 10 April 2019, the wing was redesignated the 156th Wing to reflect its transition to a new mission, which will combine contingency response and combat communications.  While the designation change was effective in April 2019, the unit's transition to the new mission is expected to take three years.  Coronet Oak and other air mobility missions by AMC, AFRC and other ANG units and aircraft and counter-narcotics (CN) missions by ACC, other AFRC, and other ANG units and aircraft will continue to utilize Muñiz Air National Guard Base on a periodic basis, with the 156 WG providing support to these transient units.


=== Contingency Response Mission ===
The 156th Contingency Response Group (156 CRG) was established on 1 January 2020.  The 156 CRG will eventually become a four squadron group.


== Lineage ==
Established as the 156th Fighter Group (Air Defense) and allotted to Puerto Rico Air National Guard in 1958
Received federal recognition and activated on 10 April 1958
Redesignated 156th Tactical Fighter Group c. 1 April 1964
Redesignated 156th Fighter Group on 15 March 1992
Redesignated: 156th Fighter Wing on 1 October 1995
Redesignated: 156th Airlift Wing on 1 October 1998
Redesignated 156th Wing on 10 April 2019


=== Assignments ===
Puerto Rico Air National Guard, 10 April 1958
Gained by Air Defense Command, 10 April 1958
Gained by Tactical Air Command, c. 1 April 1964
Gained by Air Combat Command, 1 June 1992
Gained by Air Mobility Command, 1 October 1998 – present


=== Components ===
Groups
156th Medical Group (see 156th USAF Dispensary)
156th Mission Support Group, March 1994 – present
156th Operations Group (Flying Ops), 1 March 1994 – 31 December 2019
156th Operations Group (Non-kinetic), 1 January 2020 – present
156th Contingency Response Group, 1 January 2020 – present
Squadrons

Operational squadrons
198th Fighter-Interceptor Squadron (later 198th Tactical Fighter Squadron, 198th Fighter Squadron, 198th Airlift Squadron), 10 April 1958 – 31 December 2019
141st Tactical Control Squadron (later 141st Air Control Squadron), c. 1982 – present
156th Combat Communications Squadron, 1 January 2020 - present
Contingency Response squadrons
156th Contingency Response Squadron, 1 January 2020 - present
156th Contingency Response Support Squadron, 1 January 2020 - present
156th Tactical Advisory Squadron, 1 January 2020 - present
156th Security Operations Squadron, 1 January 2020 - present
Support squadrons
156th Air Base Squadron (later 156th Combat Support Sq, 156th Mission Support Squadron), 10 April 1958 – 1 March 1994
156th Civil Engineering Squadron (see 156th Civil Engineering Flight)
156th Consolidated Aircraft Maintenance Squadron (later 156th Maintenance Squadron), 1 January 1959 – 1 March 1994
156th Force Support Squadron, - present
156th Information Systems Squadron (see 156th Communications Flight)
156th Logistics Readiness Squadron, - present
156th Materiel Squadron, 10 April 1958 – c. 10 May 1964
156th Medical Squadron (see 156th USAF Dispensary)
156th Resource Management Squadron, 1 July 1979 – 1 March 1994
156th Security Police Squadron (see 156th Weapons System Security Flight)
156th Supply Squadron, 20 May 1964 – 31 May 1973
Flights
156th Civil Engineering Flight (later 156th Civil Engineering Squadron), 1 November 1969 – present
156th Communications Flight (later 156th Information Systems Squadron, 156th Communications Flight), 14 June 1966 – present
156th Mobility Support Flight, 31 May 1973 – 31 March 1979
156th Weapons System Security Flight (later 156th Security Police Flight, 156th Security Police Squadron, 156th Security Forces Squadron), 31 May 1973 – present
156th Services Flight, c. 1 March 1988 – 1 March 1994
198th Weather Flight, c. 22 July 1961 – 31 January 1967
156th Student Flight, 1 March 1994 – present
Other
156th USAF Dispensary (later 156th Tactical Dispensary, 156th Tactical Clinic, 156th Medical Squadron, 156th Medical Group), 10 April 1958 – present


=== Stations ===
Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport (later Muñiz Air National Guard Base), Puerto Rico, 10 April 1958 – present


=== Aircraft ===


=== Decorations ===
 Air Force Outstanding Unit Award


== See also ==

 This article incorporates public domain material from the Air Force Historical Research Agency

Military history of Puerto Rico
Puerto Rico Adjutant General


== References ==


=== Notes ===
Explanatory notes

Citations


=== Bibliography ===
Cornett, Lloyd H; Johnson, Mildred W (1980). A Handbook of Aerospace Defense Organization, 1946 - 1980 (PDF). Peterson AFB, CO: Office of History, Aerospace Defense Center. Archived from the original (PDF) on 13 February 2016. Retrieved 23 March 2012.
Rogers, Brian. (2005). United States Air Force Unit Designations Since 1978. Hinkley, UK: Midland Publications. ISBN 1-85780-197-0.


== External links ==
156th Wing official website
156th Airlift Wing at Globalsecurity.org
Trevithick, Joseph (12 April 2019). "Puerto Rico Air Guard's C-130 Airlifters And Flying Role Are Being Taken Away". The Drive. Retrieved 14 April 2019.

María Inés Falconi (born 1954 in Buenos Aires) is an Argentine writer and theatre director for children and young adults.


== Writing ==
Falconi works in Theatre Expression Ateliers for children and teenagers in the Escuela de Teatro de la Universidad Popular de Belgrane. She's coordinator and director of the Atelier La Mancha. She has given conferences for the Children's Theatre in the Universidad Popular de Belgrano, the Universidad Central de Caracas, the Universidad de Maracaibo and in more institutions in South America.


== Works ==
Falconi has written numerous books, including:

Niños, las brujas no existen (Kids, Witches do not Exist)
Pajaritos en bandadas (Little Birds in Flocks)
Caídos del mapa (Fallen from the Map)
Hasta el domingo (See You on Sunday)


== References ==


== External links ==
Review of Las vacaciones para Julia (2000), Escuela Martin Buber – in Spanish
Bio details on publisher's website – in Spanish

Ferenc Keszthelyi, O. Cist (16 March 1928 – 6 December 2010) was the Roman Catholic Bishop Emeritus of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Vác, Hungary.
Born in Eger, he was ordained on 2 April 1951, aged 23 in the Order of Cistercians. On 11 February 1992, aged 63, he was appointed Bishop of Vác, and ordained the following month.
On 27 March 2003, aged 75, he retired and became Bishop Emeritus. He died on 6 December 2010, aged 82.


== Notes ==

Peltorhamphus is a genus of righteye flounders native to the southwest Pacific Ocean around New Zealand and Norfolk Island (Australia).


== Species ==
There are currently four recognized species in this genus:

Peltorhamphus kryptostomus Munroe, 2021
Peltorhamphus latus G. D. James, 1972 (Speckled sole)
Peltorhamphus novaezeelandiae Günther, 1862 (New Zealand sole)
Peltorhamphus tenuis G. D. James, 1972


== References ==

Soaring Concepts, Inc., called Soaring Concepts Aerospace since 2015, is an American aircraft manufacturer founded by Galen Geigley and based in Sturgis, Michigan. The company specializes in the design and manufacture of powered parachutes in the form of kits for amateur construction and ready-to-fly aircraft under the US light-sport aircraft rules.
The company was founded in 2000 to produce a single product, the Soaring Concepts Sky Trek, a powered parachute design that is optimized for use as a trainer. It has a higher than normal propeller ground clearance and larger diameter 4130 steel tubing for added strength, as well as other features that make it suitable for training use. The aircraft has been accepted as a light-sport aircraft by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). By August 2015 the company had produced at least 25 aircraft that had been registered in the US by the FAA.


== Aircraft ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Point Bridge can refer to:

Point Bridge (Pittsburgh), a steel cantilever truss bridge that spanned the Monongahela River in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
PointBridge, an IT consulting company
Dames Point Bridge, a cable-stayed bridge over the St. Johns River in Jacksonville, Florida
The West Point Bridge Design Contest, a competition for middle school and high school students organized by the United States Military Academy
Point Bridge Capital, an investment company known for "MAGA ETF"

Bold Alligator is a multinational littoral warfare exercise hosted by the United States. It has been held annually since 2011. In 2012, it involved 14,000 marines, sailors, airmen and soldiers, encompassing more than 25 ships and involving eleven countries, with Canada, Mexico, UK, France, Netherlands, Spain, Italy, New Zealand, Australia, and other allied nations participating at sea, on land, and in the air, at Camp Lejeune, North Carolina and in Virginia.
In 2014 the exercise involved 19 countries:


== Bold Alligator 2012 ==

Bold Alligator 2012 (BA12) was the second annual joint and multinational amphibious assault exercise sponsored by the U.S. Fleet Forces Command and the U.S. Marine Forces Command.  Held from 30 January to 12 February 2012, Bold Alligator 2012 was the largest amphibious assault exercise held on the east coast of the United States since 2002.  Its objective was the revitalization of U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps amphibious expeditionary tactics, techniques, and procedures, as well as the reinvigoration of combined Navy and Marine Corps operations from the sea.  This live and synthetic, scenario-driven, simulation-supported exercise focused on the six core capabilities set forth in the current U.S. maritime strategy - forward presence, deterrence, sea control, power projection, maritime security, and humanitarian assistance/disaster response.
Bold Alligator 2012 served as a key pre-deployment training exercises for Expeditionary Strike Group Two, the 2nd Marine Expeditionary Brigade, and Carrier Strike Group Twelve.  Additionally, nine countries participated in this exercise, providing maritime, land, and air units or observers from Australia, Canada, France, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, and the United Kingdom.  Bold Alligator 2012 was held ashore and afloat, in and off the coasts of Virginia, North Carolina, and Florida, and it culminated in three large-scale operations - an amphibious assault at Camp Lejeune; an aerial assault from the sea into Fort Pickett; and an amphibious raid on Joint Expeditionary Base East.
Bold Alligator 2012 served as the Joint Task Force Exercise for Carrier Strike Group Twelve, the final pre-deployment training exercises needed to receive its combat-readiness certification.  During this month-long underway period, Carrier Air Wing completed 3,830 flight hours, made 2,052 arrested landings, and received a 96 percent sortie completion rate.  This included a single-day total of 107 sorties flown on 6 February 2012 during the amphibious assault phase of Bold Alligator 2012.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Bold Alligator at Wikimedia Commons
Bold Alligator 2012 briefing: Admiral John C. Harvey, Commander, US Fleet Forces Command, and LtGen Dennis J. Hejlik, Commander, US Marine Forces Command, 31 January 2012. - Potomac Institute for Policy Studies. Date accessed, 10 April 2012.

The Blohm & Voss BV 141 (originally the Ha 141) was an unorthodox tactical reconnaissance aircraft developed by the German aircraft manufacturer Blohm & Voss. It was notable for its uncommon structural asymmetry.
Development commenced during 1937 in response to a Reichsluftfahrtministerium (RLM/German Aviation Ministry) specification seeking a new single-engine reconnaissance aircraft. While not invited to participate, the firm's design team opted to use a radical configuration for the BV 141 that placed the crew inside of a Plexiglas-glazed gondola that was positioned starboard of the engine and tail boom. Although the RLM declined to finance its development in favour of other options, Blohm & Voss chose to spend its own money to produce a prototype, which performed its maiden flight on 25 February 1938.
During flight testing, the aircraft proved itself to possess relatively good performance. Despite this, the RLM cancelled production plans for the BV 141A in April 1940 due to its perceived lack of power. A more powerful version of the aircraft, the BV 141B, commenced testing in 1941. However, development was protracted and a planned operational deployment on the Eastern Front was cancelled in 1942. The aircraft was never ordered into full-scale production for multiple reasons; these included the unavailability of the preferred engine and strong competition from another tactical reconnaissance aircraft, the twin-engined Focke-Wulf Fw 189 Uhu. Several examples were captured and studied by the Allied powers.


== Development ==


=== Background ===
During the mid-to-late 1930s, efforts were underway to develop and construct suitable aircraft to equip the rapidly growing Luftwaffe. To this end, during 1937, the Reichsluftfahrtministerium (RLM/German Aviation Ministry) issued a specification that called for a single-engine reconnaissance aircraft that would succeed the Henschel Hs 126. Stipulations included the use of a single engine (this was intended to reduce maintenance requirements in the field), accommodation of a three-man crew, and the possession of favourable all-round visual characteristics superior to that typically offered by parasol wing aircraft such as the Hs 126. Several different German aircraft companies opted to respond to this specification, including Arado, Focke-Wulf, and Blohm & Voss.
At one stage, the preferred contractor to fulfil the requirement was Arado, which had submitted the Ar 198. A single-engined shoulder-wing monoplane, the Ar 198 featured an enlarged glazed central fuselage position to facilitate good external visibility. However, the Ar 198 prototype proved to be unsatisfactory during flight testing. The competing Fw 189 Uhu featured a twin-boom configuration and was powered by a pair of smaller engines in spite of the requirement having stipulated the use of a single-engine.
Blohm & Voss (Hamburger Flugzeugbau), although not invited to participate, opted to pursue the requirement as a private venture. The company's design team, headed by chief designer Dr. Richard Vogt, produced a somewhat radical proposal in the form of the uniquely asymmetric BV 141. In terms of its general configuration, the aircraft's single engine was directly attached to the forward end of the tail boom while the crew were seated with a Plexiglas-glazed gondola; the tailboom and gondola were connected via the wing.
Although Ernst Udet of the Technical Department of the RLM was interested in the BV 141, several other key figures within the RLM did not look favourably upon Blohm & Voss's submission, and ultimately the RLM declined to fund its development. Not dissuaded by this unenthusiastic reception, the company elected to self-finance the construction of a single prototype, initially designated as the Ha 141-0.


=== Into flight ===
On 25 February 1938, the Ha 141-0 performed its maiden flight; it was quickly determined to possess relatively few problems. Soon thereafter, it was accepted as the first of three development prototypes, at which point it was redesignated BV 141 V2. The second prototype to fly, BV 141 V1, joined the test programme in September 1938; it was somewhat larger than the earlier aircraft and was the first to be equipped with the highly-panelled crew gondola. BV 141 V3 was intended to be more representative of the prospective production aircraft, featuring increased dimensions, a widened undercarriage, and various armaments, including a pair of forward-firing 7.92mm MG 17 machine guns and a pair of aft-facing 7.92mm MG 15 machine guns along with up to four SC50 bombs on bomb racks and automatic camera apparatus.
Encouraged by the favourable performance of BV 141 V3, the RLM placed an order for a further five preproduction aircraft, the first of which started flying during early 1939. During January 1940, this version of the aircraft, designated BV 141A, underwent an official evaluation at E-Stelle Rechlin that concluded favourably. However, on 4 April 1940, the RLM decided that the aircraft was underpowered, although it was also noted that it had otherwise exceeded the requirements, leading to production plans being cancelled.
Even prior to the RLM's cancellation, Blohm & Voss was working on an extensive redesign of the aircraft, designated BV 141B. It was powered by the BMW 801 radial engine, but also featured numerous structural changes, a further enlargement, a revised outer wing panel arrangement, and a new asymmetric tailplane. An initial order for five BV 141Bs was received, the first of which flew on 9 January 1941. This aircraft demonstrated aerodynamic issues, necessitating several modifications, including structural strengthening. Progress was relatively slow while teething issues were addressed, which delayed the delivery of BV 141 V13 for the type's official evaluation until 15 May 1943.
By the time a batch of 12 BV 141Bs were built with the BMW 801 engine, they were too late to make an impression, as the RLM had already decided to put the Fw 189 into production. Furthermore, an urgent need for BMW 801 engines to power the Fw 190 fighter aircraft reduced the chance of the BV 141B being produced in quantity. At no point was the BV141 ever considered to be an operational type, though the B-02 (V-10) was evaluated in Autumn 1941 by Aufklärungsschule 1 (Reconnaissance school). At one point it was planned to send a handful of aircraft to the Eastern Front, however these plans were cancelled in 1942.
Vogt came up with several other asymmetric designs, including the piston-jet P.194.01, but none of those were actually built. Several wrecked BV 141s were found by advancing Allied forces. One aircraft was captured by British forces and sent to England for examination. No examples survive today.


== Design ==

All three crew (pilot, observer and rear gunner) of the BV 141 was seated within a gondola, which was extensively glazed with Plexiglas. This gondola was positioned on the starboard side of the engine and strongly resembled that found on the Fw 189. The fuselage was located on the port side and led smoothly from the BMW 132N radial engine to a tail unit. At first glance, the placement of weight would have induced tendency to roll, but the weight was evenly supported by lift from the wings.
In terms of thrust vs drag asymmetry, the countering of induced yaw was a more complicated matter. At low airspeed, it was calculated to be mostly alleviated because of a phenomenon known as P-factor, while at normal airspeed it proved to be easily controlled with trimming. The tailplane was symmetrical at first, but in the 141B it became asymmetrical – starboard tailplane virtually removed – to improve the rear gunner's fields of view and fire. The displaced center of gravity was accounted for through a combination of propeller torque and the specific arrangement of the outer wing areas,


== Variants ==

All 20 of the BV 141Bs that were ordered were produced and delivered. There exists a complete record of BV 141 production with either a German civil registration number or pre-military, four letter Stammkennzeichen factory radio code number.


=== Prototypes ===
Ha 141-0
D-ORJE; original designation of the first aircraft completed with the stepped cockpit nacelle. Became the BV 141 V2.
BV 141 V1
WNr 141-00-0171; D-OTTO then BL+AU, damaged
BV 141 V2
WNr 141-00-0172; D-ORJE then PC+BA; chronologically, the first one built and the only one known under old "Ha" designation as "Ha 141"
BV 141 V3
WNr 141-00-0359; D-OLGA then BL+AA


=== Pre-series BV 141A-0 ===
BV 141A-01
(V4); WNr 01010360; D-OLLE; damaged
BV 141A-02
(V5); WNr 01010361; BL+AB
BV 141A-03
(V6); WNr 01010362; BL+AC
BV 141A-04
(V7); WNr 01010363; BL+AD
BV 141A-05
(V8); WNr 01010364; BL+AE


=== Pre-series BV 141B-0 ===
The first to have BMW 801 engine. About 2 m longer and 2 m wider than A-05.

B-01 (V9)  - WNr 0210001; NC+QZ; first flown 9 January 1941, had severe structural problem
B-02 (V10) - WNr 0210002; NC+RA; first flown 1 June 1941
B-03 (V11) - WNr 0210003; NC+RB
B-04 (V12) - WNr 0210004; NC+RC
B-05 (V13) - WNr 0210005; NC+RD
B-06 (V14) - WNr 0210006; NC+RE
B-07 (V15) - WNr 0210007; NC+RF
B-08 (V16) - WNr 0210008; NC+RG
B-09 (V17) - WNr 0210009; NC+RH
B-10 (V18) - WNr 0210010; NC+RI


=== Series BV 141B-1 ===
WNr 0210011; GK+GA
WNr 0210012; GK+GB
WNr 0210013; GK+GC
WNr 0210014; GK+GD
WNr 0210015; GK+GE
WNr 0210016; GK+GF
WNr 0210017; GK+GG
WNr 0210018; GK+GH
WNr 0210019; GL+AG; rebuilt D-OTTO
WNr 0210020; GL+AH; rebuilt D-OLLE


== Specifications (BV 141B-02 [V10]) ==

Data from General characteristics
Crew: 3
Length: 13.95 m (45 ft 9 in)
Wingspan: 17.45 m (57 ft 3 in)
Height: 3.6 m (11 ft 10 in)
Wing area: 52.9 m2 (569 sq ft)
Empty weight: 4,700 kg (10,362 lb)
Gross weight: 5,700 kg (12,566 lb)
Max takeoff weight: 6,100 kg (13,448 lb)
Powerplant: 1 × BMW 801A 14-cylinder air-cooled radial piston engine, 1,147 kW (1,538 hp)  for take-off at sea level
Performance

Maximum speed: 368 km/h (229 mph, 199 kn) at sea level; 438 km/h (272 mph) at 5,000 m (16,404 ft)
Range: 1,900 km (1,200 mi, 1,000 nmi) maximum
Service ceiling: 10,000 m (33,000 ft)
Wing loading: 107.75 kg/m2 (22.07 lb/sq ft)
Power/mass: 0.204 kW/kg (0.124 hp/lb)
Armament

Guns: 2 × 7.92mm MG 17 machine guns (fixed forward), 2 × 7.92mm MG 15 machine guns (rear-mounted flexible)
Bombs: 4 × SC50 bombs


== See also ==

Aircraft of comparable role, configuration, and era

Focke-Wulf Fw 189 Uhu
Blohm & Voss BV 237

Related lists

List of military aircraft of Germany


== References ==


=== Notes ===


=== Citations ===


=== Sources ===


== Further reading ==
Green, William (2010). Aircraft of the Third Reich. London, UK: Aerospace. pp. 136–144. ISBN 978-1-900732-06-2.
Lefèbvre, J. M. (May 1972). "Le avion gauche qui volait droit, BV 141 (2)" [The Left Plane That Flew Right, Part 2]. Le Album de Fanatique de l'Aviation (in French) (33): 20–26. ISSN 0757-4169.


== External links ==

Blohm & Voss BV 141, VR Curassow.

The 1940 Cal Aggies football team represented the College of Agriculture at Davis—now known as the University of California, Davis—as a member of the Far Western Conference (FWC) during the 1940 college football season. Led by fourth-year head coach Vern Hickey, the Aggies compiled an overall record of 4–4 with a mark of 2–1 in conference play, placing second in the FWC. The team outscored its opponents 120 to 81 for the season.
The Cal Aggies were ranked at No. 301 (out of 697 college football teams) in the final rankings under the Litkenhous Difference by Score system for 1940.
The Cal Aggies played home games at A Street field on campus in Davis, California.


== Schedule ==


== Notes ==


== References ==

Palisade Canyon is a canyon along the Humboldt River in northern Eureka County, Nevada, United States.


== Description ==
The canyon runs along the Humboldt River roughly between State Route 278 upstream (about 7.5 miles [12.1 km] south–southwest of Carlin), and a point about 8 miles (13 km) west of Beowawe and State Route 306 downstream (about 32 miles [51 km] east–southeast of Battle Mountain).
The Humboldt River, rather than flowing into the ocean, eventually loses all its water to evaporation in the Humboldt Sink, and stream-gauge measurements undertaken by the United States Geological Survey suggest that Palisade Canyon is the point where the river's flow ceases to increase and begins to decrease.
The canyon was named from a fancied resemblance to the Hudson River Palisades.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Palisade Canyon (Nevada) at Wikimedia Commons

The coat of arms of the City of London is that belonging to the Corporation of the City of London, the local authority of the City of London, Greater London, England. The blazon of the arms is Argent a cross Gules, in the first quarter a sword in pale point upwards of the last.
The earliest record of the current coat of arms dates to 1381, when it is recorded as part of a new seal for the lord mayor; an earlier coat of arms depicting Saint Paul holding a sword was in use in 1319. The first record of a crest and helm being used is a redesign of the city's common seal from 1539, and the first record of the current dragon supporters and motto is a manuscript of 1609. Only the shield was registered with the College of Arms until 1957, when a grant of the full achievement was made.


== Description and blazon ==
The Corporation of the City of London has a full achievement of armorial bearings consisting of a shield on which the arms are displayed, a crest displayed on a helmet above the shield, supporters on either side and a motto displayed on a scroll beneath the arms.
The blazon of the arms is as follows:

Arms: Argent a cross gules, in the first quarter a sword in pale point upwards of the last.
Crest: On a wreath argent and gules a dragon's sinister wing argent charged on the underside with a cross throughout gules.
Supporters: On either side a dragon argent charged on the undersides of the wings with a cross throughout gules.
The Latin motto of the City is Domine dirige nos, which translates as "Lord, direct [guide] us". It appears to have been adopted in the 17th century, as the earliest record of it is in a manuscript of 1609.
A banner of the arms (the design on the shield) is flown as a flag of the City.


== Historical development ==
The coat of arms is "anciently recorded" at the College of Arms. It was in use in 1381, forming part of the design of a new mayoral seal brought into use on 17 April of that year. The arms consist of a silver shield bearing a red cross with a red upright sword in the first quarter. They combine the emblems of the patron saints of England and London: the Cross of St George with the symbol of the martyrdom of Saint Paul. The 1381 arms replaced an earlier shield, found on an early 13th-century seal and on two embroidered seal-bags of 1319, that depicted St Paul holding a sword. It is sometimes said that the sword in the 1381 arms represents the dagger used by Lord Mayor of London William Walworth to kill Wat Tyler, leader of the Peasants' Revolt, on 15 June 1381. This tradition dates at least as far back as the first edition of Holinshed's Chronicles, published in 1577, but cannot be correct, as the arms were in use some months before Tyler's death.The crest is a dragon's wing bearing the cross of St George, borne upon a peer's helmet. A primitive form of the crest first appeared in 1539 on the reverse of a new common seal. This showed a fan-like object bearing a cross. Over time this evolved into a dragon's wing, and was shown as such in 1633 when it appeared above the city's coat of arms in the frontispiece to the fourth edition of John Stow's Survey of London. The wing is specified as a dragon's "sinister" wing, i.e. its proper left wing. It has been speculated that the use of a peer's helmet (rather than that of a gentleman, as appears in other civic arms) relates to the use of the honorific prefix "The Right Honourable" by the Lord Mayor. The helm was confirmed in 1957. Earlier representations sometimes show the arms surmounted by a "Muscovy hat", as worn by the City Swordbearer during the Stuart and Georgian periods: a notable example is seen carved above the main southern entrance to Guildhall.
On the seal of 1381 two lions were shown supporting the arms. However, by 1609 the present supporters, two silver dragons bearing red crosses upon their wings, had been adopted. The dragons were probably suggested by the legend of Saint George and the Dragon.
The crest, supporters, and motto were used without authority until 30 April 1957, when they were confirmed and granted by letters patent from the College of Arms.


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Flag of the City of London
Coat of arms of London County Council
Armorial of London
Symbols of Greater London


== Sources ==


== External links ==
"The City Arms". Research Guide 11. London Metropolitan Archives. Retrieved 12 February 2018.

823 Naval Air Squadron (823 NAS), also referred as 823 Squadron, was a Fleet Air Arm (FAA) naval air squadron of the United Kingdom’s Royal Navy (RN). It was active as part of the Royal Air Force (RAF) before World War II and part of the Royal Navy during it. It most recently operated with Fairey Barracuda between June 1943 and July 1944.
The squadron, which was formed in April 1933, functioned as a carrier-based unit established by merging the Fairey III aircraft from the 441 and 448 Fleet (Spotter Reconnaissance) Flights of the Royal Air Force RAF into the newly created Fleet Air Arm of the RAF. During its time with the RAF, the squadron utilised a range of aircraft, such as the Fairey Seal and Fairey Swordfish. After its transition to the Royal Navy, it went on to operate the Fairey Albacore in the midst of the Second World War.


== History ==


=== Pre-war (1933-1939) ===

823 Naval Air Squadron was formed on 3 April 1933 by a merger of Nos. 441 and 448 Fleet (Spotter Reconnaissance) Flights aboard HMS Glorious, a battlecruiser converted to an aircraft carrier in the 1920s. The new squadron was equipped with Fairey IIIFs and served in the Mediterranean. The vessel made its way back home in May 1934 for maintenance, while the squadron was temporarily reassigned to sister ships and lead ship of her class HMS Courageous. In December, it was re-equipped with six Fairey Seal aircraft from 820 Squadron, which increased to the full complement of twelve when it departed with six each aboard HMS Glorious and HMS Courageous for the Mediterranean in August 1935. In October, the entire squadron convened with HMS Glorious, and in November 1936, it was re-equipped with twelve Fairey Swordfish torpedo bombers, transforming into a Torpedo Spotter Reconnaissance squadron. It made a brief return home to participate in the Coronation Review Flypast at Spithead on 20 May 1937, before heading back to the Mediterranean.
The squadron was taken over by the Admiralty on 24 May 1939  at RAF Hal Far, Malta.


=== World War II (1939-1944) ===
At the onset of the war, the squadron was embarked in HMS Glorious, which was located in the Mediterranean. The carrier was promptly dispatched to the Red Sea and Indian Ocean, with the dual purpose of safeguarding British and French trade routes and locating German shipping vessels. She made her return to the Mediterranean in January 1940, but was subsequently recalled to home waters following the German invasion of Norway in April 1940.
On June 8, she was sunk by the Scharnhorst-class battleships of Nazi Germany’s Kriegsmarine: Scharnhorst and Gneisenau, while traveling from Norway to Scotland, with half of 823 on board at that moment. Subsequently, the squadron functioned with a diminished capacity of nine aircraft. On 21 June, six aircraft from 821 and 823 Squadrons, operating from RNAS Hatston (HMS Sparrowhawk), Mainland, Orkney,, attempted a daylight torpedo attack on the Scharnhorst, resulting in the loss of one aircraft from 823 Squadron.
The squadron was dissolved at RNAS Hatston on Orkney on 3 December 1940.
On November 1, 1941, the squadron was re-established at RNAS Crail (HMS Jackdaw), Fife, with nine Fairey Swordfish Is. In April 1942, these were replaced by nine Fairey Albacore torpedo bombers, which boarded HMS Furious in August for convoy escort operations, disembarking the subsequent month to conduct anti-submarine patrols in the English Channel alongside RAF Coastal Command. In June 1943, the unit was re-equipped with four Fairey Barracuda Mk IIs, a British carrier-borne torpedo and dive bomber, which increased to twelve by September, just prior to its assignment to the 45th Naval TBR Wing.
However, the aircraft were instead loaded onto the Ruler-class escort carrier HMS Atheling in February 1944, and squadron personnel travelled on HMT Strathnaver in March for their journey east, subsequently continuing on HMT Aronda from Port Said, Egypt. Upon reaching Madras in India, they resumed flying and conducted work-up with the 11th Naval TBR Wing; nevertheless, the squadron was disbanded at RNAS Katukurunda (HMS Ukussa), Ceylon, on 6 July to expand 822 Squadron.


== Aircraft operated ==
The squadron operated a variety of different aircraft and versions:

Fairey IIIF reconnaissance biplane (April 1933 - December 1934)
Fairey Seal spotter-reconnaissance aircraft (December 1934 - December 1936)
Fairey Swordfish I torpedo bomber (November 1936 - December 1940, November 1941 - March 1942)
Fairey Swordfish II torpedo bomber (February - March 1942)
Fairey Albacore torpedo bomber (March 1942 - May 1943)
Fairey Barracuda II torpedo and dive bomber (June 1943 - July 1944)


== Battle honours ==
The following Battle Honours have been awarded to 823 Naval Air Squadron:

Norway 1940


== Assignments ==
823 Naval Air Squadron was assigned as needed to form part of a number of larger units:

45th Naval TBR Wing (25 October 1943 -  21 April 1944)
11th Naval TBR Wing (21 April 1944 -  6 July 1944)


== Commanding officers ==
List of commanding officers of 823 Naval Air Squadron with date of appointment:
1933 - 1940

Lieutenant Commander J.H.F. Burroughs, RN, (Flight Lieutenant, RAF), from 3 April 1933
Flight Lieutenant M.M. Freehill, , RAF, from 26 May 1933
Lieutenant Commander C.B. Tidd, RN, (Squadron Leader, RAF), from 18 August 1933
Flight Lieutenant M.M. Freehill, DFC, RAF, from 1 September 1934
Lieutenant Commander G.C. Dickins, RN, (Squadron Leader, RAF), from 30 August 1935
Lieutenant Commander D.W. MacKendrick, RN, (Squadron Leader, RAF), from 21 May 1937 (Commander - 31 December 1937)
Lieutenant Commander R.A. Kilroy, RN, (Squadron Leader, RAF), from 1 February 1938
Lieutenant Commander R.D. Watkins, RN, from 24 May 1939
Lieutenant Commander C.J.T. Stephens, RN, from 21 April 1940 ( † 8 June 1940)
Lieutenant Commander D.H. Elles, RN, from 3 July 1940
disbanded - 3 December 1940
1941 - 1944

Lieutenant Commander(A) A.J.D. Harding, , RN, from 1 November 1941
Lieutenant Commander J.W. Collett, RN, from 1 August 1942
Lieutenant R.W. Spackman, RN, from 24 November 1942
Lieutenant Commander G. Douglas, DFC, RNR, from 22 March 1943
Lieutenant Commander(A) L.C. Watson, DSC, RNVR, from 1 December 1943
disbanded - 6 July 1944
Note: Abbreviation (A) signifies Air Branch of the RN or RNVR.


== References ==
Sqn Histories 712–825
Fleet Air Arm archive


=== Citations ===


=== Bibliography ===

The Heavy Brigade Combat Team (HBCT) Warfighters’ Forum (HWfF) is one of three BCT Warfighters’ Forums established at the direction of the Commanding General, United States Army Forces Command (FORSCOM), as a collaborative effort of the United States Army’s three Army Commands - United States Army Forces Command (FORSCOM), Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC), and Army Material Command (AMC) in 2008 to create web-based knowledge networks that allow brigade combat teams to share their tacit and explicit knowledge in their ongoing preparations for global missions.


== History ==
The Warfighters' Forums (WfF) initiative is a web-based knowledge network established to enhance training, readiness, leader development and collaboration and information sharing among Brigade Combat Teams (BCT) and functional and multifunctional brigades. The program leverages upon the senior mentor roles performed by corps and Center of Excellence (CoE) commanders who integrate the functions of the WfF into staff organizations, internal battle rhythms, and routine interactive sessions with subordinate commanders world-wide. The WfF initiative recognizes the imperative to provide a proactive means to promote collaboration, share ideas, and find solutions to common problems across the Army, and to learn, innovate, decide, and act faster than our adversaries while operating in a condition of persistent conflict.
The HWfF was officially established January 15, 2008, in accordance with the BCT Warfighters’ Forum Charter and FORSCOM directives. The charter frames the concept of the overarching Warfighters’ Forum initiative and is signed by the commanding generals of the three Army Commands.

  
  The mission of each forum, within its respective combat formation, is to enhance BCT leader, leader team,
  and unit training and operations throughout the Army Force Generation (ARFORGEN) process…1

Over the course of 2008, FORSCOM issued orders further refining the BCT WfF initiative. This included FORSCOM Command Training Guidance-Training under Army Force Generation (ARFORGEN). An amendment to the original charter in December 2008 formally expanded the initiative to encompass forums in the Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) that serve an Army-wide audience encompassing functional and multifunctional brigades.
Several WfF working groups and boards were established in December 2008 to formally assist the ACOM commander’s governance and oversight of the FORSCOM, TRADOC and AMC forums.
Warfighters’ Forum Working Group – Each ACOM convenes an internal group of key stakeholders to which their respective  WfF is a standing member to address issues, operational concerns and provide routine updates to the ACOM headquarters to  which they belong. The HWfF is a standing member of the FORSCOM WfF Action Officer Working Group (AOWG) which meets monthly. The AOWG is chaired by the FORSCOM G3/5/7 Strategic Initiatives Division, Knowledge Management Branch Chief. TRADOC maintains its own similar working group for its functional and multifunctional WfFs.
Warfighters’ Forum Board of Directors (BoD) – A jointly convened, quarterly board chaired by the FORSCOM G3/5/7 Strategic Initiatives Division at the Colonel-level to address concerns raised by the three ACOM working groups and represented by principals from each of the ACOM-level commands (FORSCOM, TRADOC and AMC).
The Warfighters’ Forum Executive Directors’ Steering Committee (EDSC) is a quarterly scheduled council of general officers with oversight of their respective WfF for the purpose of addressing issues, proposed initiatives and resolution of topics of mutual interest nominated by the BoD in advance of the annually held 4-Star Executive Council (EC). Principal attendees include the one and two-star general officers or Senior Executive Service and Chief Knowledge Officers (CKO) from each of the BCT, TRADOC CoE, AMC, and AMEDD-C WfFs.
The Warfighters’ Forum 4-Star Executive Council (EC), held annually, is the principal governing body and the means for ACOM Commanding Generals to be updated on the developmental progress of the WfF initiative, provide ACOM-level guidance to the effort and provide azimuth and intent to shape the initiative's direction.


== Organization ==
The III Corps Commanding General is designated as the HWfF Senior Mentor. His Deputy serves as the HWfF’s Executive Director. The HWfF itself is organized with an Army Colonel as the Director, a Lieutenant Colonel as Deputy Director, Non-commissioned officers and Department of the Army civilians supporting the daily operations.


== Key Features of HWfF ==
The HWfF is mandated to establish and maintain two separate web presences providing HBCT and community members with both unclassified/For Official Use Only and classified web portals. Both portals are accessible to HWfF members through Army Common Access Card (for unclassified/FOUO) or Army provided classified email accounts. General public access is restricted due to the sensitive nature of most of the information found on the HWfF web sites. The portals provide explicit and tacit knowledge exchange as a way to keep the HBCT community informed. HWfF Unclassified Portal (AKO account and Common Access Card required to log in)
A bi-weekly HWfF newsletter is published as a means to provide HBCT community with informational highlights that are of interest to their individual, collective and professional training efforts as well as report on activities, articles and news occurring throughout the HBCT community.
HWfF Senior Mentor Symposium. In its capacity for encouraging HBCT leaders to share their tacit knowledge, unit lessons learned from ongoing and recent deployments, and discussions among operational commanders the HWfF hosts regularly scheduled on-line symposiums hosted by the forum’s senior commander, the III Corps Commanding General or his Deputy, and currently occur every 6-weeks using the Defense Connect Online-Secret (DCO-S) collaborative tools suite.
Post-Combat Leader Interviews (PCLI) were first held in April 2009, with the HWfF endeavouring to interview returning HBCT leadership as one of many ways being used throughout the Army to capture the leaders’ experiences, observations, lessons and professional opinions of how they and their unit performed during their phased movement through the Army Force Generation (ARFORGEN) processes (Reset, Train/ Ready, Available). One to two hour video-taped sessions with brigade, battalion and company-level leaders are conducted by HWfF staff and made available for view or download on the HWfF portal.


== References ==

The 1999 Ms. Olympia contest was an IFBB professional bodybuilding competition held October 2, 1999, in Secaucus, New Jersey, alongside the 1999 Women's Pro Extravaganza. It was the 20th Ms. Olympia competition held.


== Prize money ==
1st - $25,000
2nd - $10,000
3rd - $7,000
4th - $4,000
5th - $3,000
6th - $1,000
Total: $50,000


== Rounds ==
Round 1 (Symmetry Round): Judging contestants on balance and proportion.
Round 2 (Muscularity/Conditioning Round): Focused on muscle size, definition, and overall conditioning, including muscle separation and leanness.
Round 3 (Compulsory Poses Round): Contestants performed mandatory poses to highlight specific muscle groups.
Round 4 (Posing Routine Round): A choreographed routine to music, emphasizing presentation, creativity, and overall stage presence.


== Competitors height & weight ==
Lesa Lewis - 5’10”,  190 lb (86 kg)
Yaxeni Oriquen-Garcia - 5’9”, 180 lb (82 kg)
Brenda Raganot - 5’3”, 180 lb (82 kg)
Tazzie Colomb - 5’7”, 172 lb (78 kg)
Kim Chizevsky-Nicholls - 5’8”,  162 lb (73 kg)
Iris Kyle - 5’7”,  155 lb (70 kg)
Laura Binetti - 5’3”, 150 lb (68 kg)
Vickie Gates - 5’4”, 145 lb (66 kg)
Valentina Chepiga - 5’4”, 141 lb (64 kg)
Laura Creavalle - 5’4”, 141 lb (64 kg)
Andrulla Blanchette - 5’3”, 140 lb (64 kg)
Gayle Moher - 5’4”, 135 lb (61 kg)


== Pre-judging ==


=== Symmetry round ===
In this round the judges are looking for the overall muscle balance; that the proportion of muscle is distributed evenly over the bodybuilder's frame.

Brenda Ragonot, Laura Binetti, Andrulla Blanchette, Vickie Gates, Laura Creavalle, Tazzie Colomb, Valentina Chepiga, Gayle Moher, Yaxeni Oriquen, Lesa Lewis, Iris Kyle, Kim Chizevsky
Kim Chizevsky, Iris Kyle, Lesa Lewis, Yaxeni Oriquen, Gayle Moher, Valentina Chepiga, Tazzie Colomb, Laura Creavalle, Vickie Gates, Andrlla Blanchette, Laura Binetti, and Brenda Ragonot


== Results ==
1st - Kim Chizevsky-Nicholls
2nd - Vickie Gates
3rd - Laura Creavalle
4th - Iris Kyle
5th - Lesa Lewis
6th - Tazzie Colomb
7th - Andrulla Blanchette
8th - Laura Binetti
9th - Brenda Raganot
10th - Yaxeni Oriquen-Garcia
11th - Gayle Moher
12th - Valentina Chepiga


=== Scorecard ===


== Attended ==
12th Ms. Olympia attended - Laura Creavalle
6th Ms. Olympia attended - Kim Chizevsky-Nicholls
5th Ms. Olympia attended - Laura Binetti
4th Ms. Olympia attended - Vickie Gates
3rd Ms. Olympia attended - Lesa Lewis, Gayle Moher, and Andrulla Blanchette
2nd Ms. Olympia attended - Tazzie Colomb, Valentina Chepiga, and Yaxeni Oriquen-Garcia
1st Ms. Olympia attended - Iris Kyle and Brenda Raganot
Previous year Olympia attendees who did not attend - Dayana Cadeau, Yolanda Hughes, Chris Bongiovanni, Zdenka Turda, Jacqueline De Gennaro, Jitka Harazimova, Beate Drabing, and Sipka Berska


== Notable events ==
This was Kim Chizevsky's 4th overall and consecutive Olympia win. This was also Kim's last Olympia before she retired from bodybuilding.
This was Iris Kyle's first Olympia she attended.


=== Rescheduling ===
The 1999 Ms. Olympia was originally scheduled to be held on 9 October in Santa Monica, California. However, one month before the scheduled date, the IFBB announced that the contest had been cancelled. The main cause was the withdrawal of promoter Jarka Kastnerova (who promoted the 1998 contest in Prague) for financial reasons, including a low number of advance ticket sales for the 1999 event. The backlash following the announcement led to a flurry of activity, with the contest being rescheduled as part of the Women's Extravaganza (promoted by Kenny Kassel and Bob Bonham) in Secaucus, New Jersey, on 2 October. Last minute sponsorship came from several sources, most significantly in the form of $50,000 from Flex magazine.


== See also ==
Women's Pro Extravaganza
1999 Mr. Olympia


== References ==


== External links ==
1999 Ms. Olympia held in Secaucus, New Jersey on October 2nd
1999 Ms Olympia Results
Competitor History of the Ms. Olympia Archived 2013-11-10 at the Wayback Machine
1999 MS. OLYMPIA (DOWNLOAD)
1999 MS. OLYMPIA (DVD)

Color Laser Engraving is a marking process that uses a MOPA fiber laser source to mark color on a metal surface, such as stainless steel or titanium.
Color marking in this way is not often used as it can be a laborious process, impermanent and is costly - largely due to the machinery involved.
MOPA refers to a configuration consisting of a master laser (or seed laser) and an optical amplifier to boost the output power. A special case is the master oscillator fiber amplifier (MOFA), where the power amplifier is a fiber device. In other cases, a MOPA may consist of a solid-state bulk laser and a bulk amplifier, or of a tunable external-cavity diode laser and semiconductor optical amplifier.


== External links ==
Color Laser Engraving – A Complete Guide for Beginners


== References ==

The 1938–39 Bradford City A.F.C. season was the 32nd in the club's history.
The club finished 3rd in Division Three North, and reached the 1st round of the FA Cup.


== Sources ==
Frost, Terry (1988). Bradford City A Complete Record 1903-1988. Breedon Books Sport. ISBN 0-907969-38-0.


== References ==

When Two Worlds Collide is a studio album by American musician and pianist Jerry Lee Lewis, released on Elektra Records in 1980.


== Critical reception ==

The New York Times wrote: "Drawing upon his encyclopedic knowledge of American pop-music idioms, from Sousa marches through ragtime to raunchy rock and roll, Mr. Lewis plays exuberantly throughout When Two Worlds Collide, his left hand thumping out the beat while his right races up and down the keys in imitation of the ups-and-downs of his career." Robert Christgau noted that "new producer Eddie Kilroy doesn't push Jerry Lee the way Bones Howe did on Jerry Lee Lewis."


== Track listing ==
"Rockin' Jerry Lee" (Jerry Lee Lewis) - 2:35
"Who Will Buy the Wine" (Billy Mize) - 2:54
"Love Game" (Hugh Moffatt) - 3:30
"Alabama Jubilee" (George Cobb, Jack Yellen) - 4:45
"Good Time Charlie's Got the Blues" (Danny O'Keefe) - 2:22
"When Two Worlds Collide" (Bill Anderson, Roger Miller) - 2:27
"Good News Travels Fast" (Rick Klang) - 2:49
"I Only Want a Buddy Not a Sweetheart" (Edward H. Jones) - 3:40
"Honky Tonk Stuff" (Jerry Chesnut) - 2:57
"Toot, Toot, Tootsie, Goodbye" (Ernie Erdman, Ted Fiorito, Gus Kahn) - 3:53


== Personnel ==
Jerry Lee Lewis - vocals, piano
David Kirby, Duke Faglier - guitar
Kenny Lovelace - guitar, fiddle
Bobby Thompson - acoustic guitar, banjo
Steve Chapman - acoustic guitar
Stu Basore - steel guitar
Bobby Dyson - bass
Bunky Keels - electric piano, organ
Jimmy Isbell - drums, percussion
George Tidwell, Ron Keller - trumpet
Dennis Good - trombone
Denis Solee - clarinet
The Lea Jane Singers - backing vocals
The Shelly Kurland String Section - strings
Billy Strange - string arrangements


== References ==

Dawson Fyers Duckworth Turner, FRSE, FRCPE (1857–1928) was a British pioneer of radiology and patron of the arts, who died of radiation related cancer.


== Early life ==
He was born in Liverpool in 1857 the son of Rev Dawson Turner and attended Shrewsbury School in Shropshire. He then studied at Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia, Canada where he graduated BA in 1884. Returning to Britain Turner studied at Edinburgh University where he graduated in medicine (MB CM with honours) in 1888 and attained his MD 1890. He became MRCPE in 1890 and was elected fellow (FRCPE) in 1891.


== Early medical career ==
After serving as resident physician in the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh under Sir James Affleck he was appointed  Lecturer in  Physics at the  Edinburgh Extramural School of Medicine at Surgeons' Hall, Edinburgh. In addition he acted as clinical tutor in clinical medicine at the Extramural School at Surgeons' Hall.


== Radiology career ==
When X-rays were discovered by Röntgen in 1895 Dawson Turner was one of the first to appreciate their possible application in medicine. He built an early X-ray apparatus in his home at 32 George Square, Edinburgh. On 5 February 1896 he demonstrated X-rays at a meeting of the Edinburgh Medico-Chirurgical Society. In 1901 he became Physician in Charge of X-Rays at Edinburgh Royal Infirmary remaining in this role until ill-health caused his partial retirement in 1911 from which time he became "Extra Electrician" until his full retirement in 1925.
He was  one of the first, in 1902, to use X-rays in the treatment of cancer.
In 1910 he was living at 37 George Square, Edinburgh.
In 1911 he was one of the earliest recorded persons using radium to treat lymphosarcoma. His surgical colleague Alexis Thomson inserted an aluminium case, which enclosed a glass tube containing radium bromide, into the tumour below the clavicle. Turner, over the next few days, exposed the involved lymph nodes above the clavicle to radium bromide contained in a second tube. There was no trace of the tumour when the patient was examined at three months or again at one year after treatment.


== Honours received ==
In 1901 he succeeded William Ivison Macadam as President of the Royal Scottish Society of Arts (RSSA).
In 1906 Turner was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were James Affleck, Sir William Turner, Cargill Gilston Knott and James Gordon MacGregor.
He was Vice President of the Roentgen Society.


== Later life ==
His Edinburgh address until retiral due to ill-health was 37 George Square. The building was demolished by Edinburgh University in the 1960s to make way for George Square Library.
Early in his career he had lost two fingers of his left hand as a result of exposure to radiation which had also resulted in the loss of an eye. For the last years of his life he did not enjoy good health and his symptoms were presumed to result from radiation exposure. He died of radiation related cancer at Godalming in Surrey on Christmas Day 1928. His is one of the 14 British names of the 169 included on the Monument to the X-ray and Radium Martyrs of All Nations erected in Hamburg, Germany in 1936. In 1931 Edinburgh Royal Infirmary erected a memorial plaque to his memory in the radiology department.


== Family ==
He was married to Emily Barry, daughter of William Barry of Romford.


== Selected publications ==
Turner, Dawson. A Manual of Practical Medical Electricity: The Röntgen Rays, Finsen Light, Radium and Its Radiations and High-Frequency Currents. New York: William Wood & Co, 1904
Turner, Dawson F. D. Radium; its Physics and Therapeutics Second Edition, Revised and Enlarged. London. Baillière, Tindall & Cox: London, 1914.
Turner, Dawson. Some Reflections Based Upon the Work Done in the Electrical Department of the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh. Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine. 1 (1908): 118–125.
Turner, Dawson. A Case of Myeloma of the Sternum Treated by Radium. British Medical Journal. 2.2849 (1915): 218
Turner, Dawson. Cancer and the Roentgen Rays. British Medical Journal. 2.2178 (1902): 976
Turner, Dawson. Report on the Radium Treatment at the Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh, During the Year 1916. Archives of Radiology and Electrotherapy. 22.8 (1918): 251–257
Turner, Dawson. The Dosage of Radium.  British Medical Journal. 1.3238 (1923): 100-101


== References ==

This is a list of Victory ships with names beginning with E.


== Description ==

A Victory ship was a cargo ship. The cargo ships were 455 feet 3 inches (138.76 m) overall, 436 feet 6 inches (133.05 m) between perpendiculars They had a beam of 62 feet 0 inches (18.90 m), a depth of 38 feet 0 inches (11.58 m) and a draught of 28 feet 0 inches (8.53 m). They were assessed at 7,612 GRT, 4,555 NRT and 10,750 DWT.
The ships were powered by a triple expansion steam engine, driving a steam turbine via double reduction gear. This gave the ship a speed of 15.5 knots (28.7 km/h) or 16.5 knots (30.6 km/h), depending on the machinery installed.
Liberty ships had five holds. No. 1 hold was 57 feet 6 inches (17.53 m) long, with a capacity of 81,715 cubic feet (2,313.9 m3), No. 2 hold was 45 feet 0 inches (13.72 m) long, with a capacity of 89,370 cubic feet (2,531 m3), No. 3 hold was 78 feet 0 inches (23.77 m) long, with a capacity of 158,000 cubic feet (4,500 m3), No. 4 hold was 81 feet 0 inches (24.69 m) long, with a capacity of 89,370 cubic feet (2,531 m3) and No. 5 hold was 75 feet 0 inches (22.86 m) long, with a capacity of 81,575 cubic feet (2,309.9 m3).
In wartime service, they carried a crew of 62, plus 28 gunners. The ships carried four lifeboats. Two were powered, with a capacity of 27 people and two were unpowered, with a capacity of 29 people.


== Earlham Victory ==
Earlham Victory was built by Permanente Metals Corporation, Richmond, California. Her keel was laid on 3 May 1945. She was launched on 13 June and delivered on 10 July. Built for the War Shipping Administration (WSA), she was operated under the management of Alcoa Steamship Co. Laid up in Suisun Bay in 1948. Returned to service in 1966 due to the Vietnam War. Operated under the management of States Steamship Company. Laid up in Suisun Bay in 1973. Reported to be for disposal in 2004.


== Eastland ==
 Eastland was built by Oregon Shipbuilding Corporation, Portland, Oregon. Her keel was laid on 4 July 1944. She was launched on 19 September and delivered on 26 October. Built for the United States Navy. Laid up in the James River in 1946. She was scrapped at Brownsville, Texas in 1974.


== East Point Victory ==
East Point Victory was built by Bethlehem Fairfield Shipyard, Baltimore, Maryland. Her keel was laid on 5 February 1945. She was launched on 26 March and delivered on 20 April. Built for the WSA, she was operated under the management of Isthmian Steamship Company. Management later transferred to T. J. Stevenson Co. Laid up in the James River in 1947. Later transferred to Suisun Bay. She was scrapped at Oakland, California in June 1971.


== Edgecombe ==
 Edgecombe was built by Oregon Shipbuilding Corporation. Her keel was laid on 11 July 1944. She was launched on 24 September and delivered on 30 October. Built for the United States Navy. Decommissioned in 1947 and laid up. To the United States Maritime Administration in 1959 and laid up in the James River. She was scrapped at Kaohsiung, Taiwan in 1988.


== Effingham ==
 Effingham was built by Oregon Shipbuilding Corporation. Her keel was laid on 19 July 1944. She was launched on 29 September and delivered on 1 November. Built for the United States Navy. To the United States Maritime Commission (USMC) in 1946 and laid up in the James River. She was sold to New York shipbreakers in April 1973.


== Elgin Victory ==
Elgin Victory was built by Permanente Metals Corporation. Her keel was laid on 13 October 1944. She was launched on 12 December and delivered on 18 January 1945. Built for the WSA, she was operated under the management of American-Hawaiian Steamship Company. To the United States Army Transportation Corps in 1947 and renamed Pvt Charles N. de Glopper. To the United States Maritime Administration in 1949 and laid up in the Hudson River. Later transferred to the James River. She was scrapped at Cleveland, Ohio in 1974.


== Elko Victory ==
Elko Victory was built by Permanente Metals Corporation. Her keel was laid on 11 October 1944. She was launched on 8 December and delivered on 29 December. Built for the WSA, she was operated under the management of Moore-McCormack Lines. Laid up in the James River in 1953. She was scrapped at Alang, India in 1994.


== Elmira Victory ==
Elmira Victory was built by Oregon Shipbuilding Corporation. Her keel was laid on 25 March 1944. She was launched on 12 May and delivered on 31 May. Built for the WSA, she was operated under the management of Alaska Steamship Company. Laid up in the Hudson River in 1949. Later transferred to Suisun Bay. She was scrapped in 1993, probably at a Chinese port.


== El Reno Victory ==
El Reno Victory was built by Permanente Metals Corporation. Her keel was laid on 15 November 1944. She was launched on 13 January 1945 and delivered on 7 February. Built for the WSA, she was operated under the management of American President Lines. Sold in 1947 to Panama Shipping Co. Inc., Panama and renamed Villar. Chartered to Lamport and Holt Line. Sold in 1949 to Koninklijke Nederlandse Stoomboot-Maatschappij, Amsterdam, Netherlands and renamed Bennekom. Sold in 1966 to Ithacamar Compania de Navigation, Monrovia, Liberia and renamed Ithaca Victory. Sold in 1968 to Venus Maritime Corp., Monrovia and renamed Venus Victory. She was scrapped at Kaohsiung in April 1970.


== El Salvador Victory ==
El Salvador Victory was built by Oregon Shipbuilding Corporation. Her keel was laid on 28 January 1944. She was launched on 1 April and delivered on 27 April. Built for the WSA, she was operated under the management of Seas Shipping Co. Laid up at Olympia, Washington in 1946. Sold in 1947 to Compagnie Maritime Congolaise, Antwerp, Belgium and renamed Lindi. Sold in 1961 to Compagnie Africaine de Navigation S.A., Antwerp. Sold in 1967 to Chinese Maritime Trust, Keelung, Taiwan and renamed Geh-Yung. Converted to a container ship in 1970. Now 7,634 GT. She was scrapped at Kaohsiung in 1977.


== Emory Victory ==
Emory Victory was built by Bethlehem Fairfield Shipyard. Her keel was laid on 13 February 1945. She was launched on 3 April and delivered on 6 October. One of a few Victory ships built as a motor vessel. Her diesel engine was built by the Nordberg Manufacturing Company, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. it was fitted by the Sun Shipbuilding & Drydock Co., Chester, Pennsylvania. Built for the WSA, she was operated under the management of United States Lines. Laid up in the James River in 1947. Returned to service in 1950 due to the Korean War. She ran aground at Cairnryan, United Kingdom on 28 December 1952, but was refloated later that day. Operated by the Military Sea Transportation Service. Laid up in Suisun Bay in 1953. To the United States Department of the Interior Bureau of Indian Affairs in 1962 and renamed North Star III. She operated in Arctic Alaska, serving remote communities that were not served commercially. Laid up at Bremerton Navy Yard, Bremerton, Washington in 1984. She was scrapped at Kaohsiung in 1991.


== Enid Victory ==
Enid Victory was built by Permanente Metals Corporation. Her keel was laid on 17 May 1945. She was launched on 27 June and delivered on 28 July. Built for the WSA, she was operated under the management of General Steamship Company. Laid up in the Hudson River in 1949. Later transferred to Beaumont, Texas. She was scrapped at Alang in 1993.


== Escanaba Victory ==
 Escanaba Victory was built by Oregon Shipbuilding Corporation. Her keel was laid on 29 April 1944. She was launched on 7 June and delivered on 29 June. Built for the WSA, she was operated under the management of American South African Line. Laid up at Wilmington, North Carolina in 1948. Sold in 1950 to North American Shipping Co. To the United States Navy in 1952 and renamed Regulus. Converted to a refrigerated storeship by Todd Shipyards, Brooklyn, New York. Driven ashore on Kau Yi Chau, Hong Kong on 17 August 1971 during Typhoon Rose. Declared a constructive total loss,  she was scrapped at Hong Kong in 1972.


== Ethiopia Victory ==
Ethiopia Victory was built by Permanente Metals Corporation. Her keel was laid on 20 January 1944. She was launched on 20 April and delivered on 17 July. Built for the WSA, she was operated under the management of Agwilines Inc. Laid up at Wilmington, North Carolina in 1948. To the United States Navy in 1965 and renamed Victoria. Laid up in the James River in 1984. She was scrapped at Kaohsiung in 1987.


== Eufala Victory ==
Eufala Victory was built a troop transport by Bethlehem Fairfield Shipyard.  Her keel was laid on 23 October 1944. She was launched on 5 December and delivered on 31 December. Built for the WSA, she was operated under the management of United States Lines. Laid up in Suisun Bay in 1947. She was scrapped at Portland, Oregon in 1974.


== References ==


=== Sources ===
Sawyer, L. A.; Mitchell, W. H. (1974). Victory Ships and Tankers. Newton Abbot: David and Charles. ISBN 0 7153 6036 1.

The Hambacher Festival was a German national democratic festival celebrated from 27 May to 30 May 1832 at Hambach Castle, near Neustadt an der Weinstraße, in present-day Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. The event was disguised as a nonpolitical county fair. It was one of the main public demonstrations in support of German unity, freedom and democracy during the Vormärz era.


== Background ==

At the time of the 1815 Congress of Vienna, Hambach Castle with the historic Palatinate region on the west bank of the Rhine was part of the Kingdom of Bavaria. It had however been occupied by French Revolutionary troops during the War of the First Coalition in 1794 and incorporated into the French First Republic in 1801. After Napoleon's defeat, the new Bavarian authorities maintained some constitutional rights, but the local population nevertheless suffered from high taxes and increasing censorship.
National and liberal ideas were strongly advocated by student fraternities (Burschenschaften), the first of which, the Urburschenschaft, was founded in Jena, Thuringia in 1815 and had adopted the Black-Red-Gold colours of the Lützow Free Corps forces, who had fought against the Napoleonic troops. A corresponding flag was already carried along the procession to the Wartburg Festival in 1817. Suppressed by the 1819 Carlsbad Decrees, the German democratic movement gained new momentum by the French July Revolution of 1830 as well as by the November Uprising in Russian Congress Poland, sparking unrests in Saxony, Hanover, Hesse, Brunswick and even in the Prussian capital Berlin. The insurgents witnessed the implementation of the French constitutional July Monarchy and the Belgian Revolution, but also the suppression of the Polish National Government of Prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski by Russian troops. About 10,000 emigrants fled Poland in the so-called Great Emigration to France via the German states; they were well received especially in Saxony, Baden and Bavaria, where several pro-Polish patronage associations (Polenvereine) arose.


== Festival ==
The formerly French Palatinate had been a last resort for liberal authors and intellectuals, who now had to face the reactionary Bavarian policies. In January 1832 a number of journalists established a democratic association for freedom of the press and speech, which was almost immediately banned by the state government. In turn, the initiators called for a "fair" at Hambach Castle, as any demonstrations were prohibited.
About 20,000-30,000 people came, from all ranks of society—workmen, women, students and members of parliament, as well as from France and Poland. A delegation of 17 to 20 Polish emigrants took part in the procession from the Neustadt market place uphill to the castle ruin. This pro-Polish support expressed in Hambach was the climax of German liberals' enthusiasm for Poland.
Gustave Koerner, who was present, described in his memoirs one highlight of the festival in this manner:

From various platforms eloquent speeches were made by Doctor Siebenpfeiffer, Wirth, Scharpff, Henry Brueggemann, and others, representing the sad condition of Germany, its insignificance in the council of European nations, its depression in trade and commerce, all owing to the want of national union, the division into thirty-eight States, large and small, with their different laws, different weights and measures, different currencies, and most of all to the custom-house lines surrounding every State. The orators complained of the pressure which Austria and Prussia exercised over the German Diet at Frankfort, compelling even liberal-minded princes to the adoption of unconstitutional and illegal measures. Brueggemann, whose speech was one of the most eloquent, addressed the meeting as the representative of the German youth, which, in spite of criminal persecutions, he asserted had kept the idea of the liberty and unity of the Vaterland alive. Persecuted by the government, ridiculed by the indifferent and by the organs of the government, the Burschenschaft had ever represented the union of all the German races, had obliterated State lines, and had persistently propagated the necessity of a national union throughout the land by its members. It was an exciting moment, when, at the close of his speech, he called upon the assembly to hold their hands up and to swear the oath which the delegates of the three Swiss cantons, on the height of the Ruetli, swore, as given in the glorious language of Schiller in his "Tell".

Thousands held up their hands, and in the most solemn manner repeated the sentences as given by Brueggemann. After a deep silence tremendous cheers arose, and Brueggemann was taken down in triumph by an electrified multitude.
The main demands of the meeting were liberty, civil and political rights as well as national unity and popular sovereignty against the European system of the Holy Alliance. No consensus was reached in regard to actions, and a few uncoordinated violent acts were carried out by students later. The poet Ludwig Börne, who followed his invitation by the representatives of the banned press association, described his mixed emotions, when Heidelberg students gathered in a clamorous torchlight procession in his honour, declaring him a national hero. Burschenschaft members demanded an open revolt and the implementation of a provisional government, which was strongly rejected by the journalists. Nevertheless, of the four main organizers of the meeting, three (Philipp Jakob Siebenpfeiffer and the attorneys Schüler and Geib) fled the country, a fourth (Johann G. A. Wirth) chose to stay and was sentenced to two years in prison.
The German revolutionary song "Fürsten zum Land Hinaus!" originated at the festival, to popular enjoyment. The song quickly spread throughout Germany, eventually becoming the unofficial anthem of the 1848 German revolution.


== Aftermath ==

The gathering had no immediate results, but is considered a milestone in German history because it was the first time that a republican movement had made its mark in the country. It was criticized as a missed opportunity, including by Heinrich Heine. The next year, about 50 insurgents tried to start a democratic revolution by charging the Frankfurt guard house (Frankfurter Wachensturm), which ultimately failed. Instead the Hambach events prompted the legalist German Federal Convention to issue its order of 28 June 1832 which again tightened the Carlsbad Decrees and completely suppressed freedom of speech. On the anniversary date in 1833, Bavarian military controlled the area and dispersed all attempts to hold another gathering. Many intellectuals retired to a non-political Biedermeier life in the following years.
The Festival also confirmed the establishment of the combination of black, red and gold as a symbol of a democratic movement for a united Germany. The colours were later used by democratic revolutionaries in the Revolutions of 1848 as a symbol of German unity, but it was not achieved until 1871 and, even then, to Otto von Bismarck's specifications. After World War I, Black-Red-Gold were adopted by the Weimar Republic as the national colours of Germany and are used on the modern German flag.
Hambach Castle became an icon of the German democratic movement. A possession of Prince Maximilian II of Bavaria from 1842, it was rebuilt in a Gothic Revival style from 1844 and is today the site of a historical exhibition.


== References ==

Brockhaus' Konversations-Lexikon. 14th ed., Leipzig, Berlin and Vienna 1894; Vol. 8, p. 698


== External links ==

Johann August Wirth at the Hambach Festival (May 1832)

Chan Nyein (Burmese: ချမ်းငြိမ်း) is a former Minister for Education of Myanmar (Burma). and a member of the Pyithu Hluttaw, the lower house of the country's national legislature from 2011 to 2016.


== References ==

Katbundit Champasilp (Thai: กาจบัณฑิต จำปาศิลป์; born 24 January 2003), known mononymously as Ryan Katbundit (Thai: ไรอัล กาจบัณฑิต, pronounced [raj ʔan kàːt ban tʰít]), is a Thai luk thung singer from Bangkok in 21st century. He first appeared on the TV stage contest Mai Mod Nee which on air by Workpoint Entertainment. He has released nine singles with a subsidiary record label of Workpoint Entertainment, Yoongkao Record, that focuses of new generation electronic Luk thung in 2020s.


== Early life and musical career ==
He was born into middle-class family in Bang Kapi district, Bangkok. His father was interested about Luk thung song and he has one younger brother.
He started to contest on the many stage since he was 13 years, and he earnest with contest when his mother was unemployed during COVID-19 pandemic in Thailand. In 2020, he attended to contest in Chumthang Daothong which on air by Channel 7, but he was lost. In 2021, he attended to contest in Dual Phleng Ching Thun which on air by One 31, but he was only 6th time to champion of this contest. He started to popular after he attended to contest in Mai Mod Nee, with his pleasure voice and his handsomeness are made many fans to followed him. He can keep champion in Mai Mod Nee with 200th times, which received public criticism to the commentators in that contest about transparency in judging. However, he continues to gain popular by his fans.
He recorded first single The Past Love at Kong Fang (รักเก่าข้างกองฟาง), original by Chatchai Chatchawarn, and released on every digital media in July 2022. After that two months, he recorded second single We Love Luk Thung (ฉันรักเพลงลูกทุ่ง), written by Praphas Cholsalanon. He also released another single include My Daring on My Wallpapaer (แรงใจหน้าจอ), End the Sadness With Me (หยุดเสียใจไว้ที่ฉัน), Solve I With Heart Subject (ติด ร. วิชาหัวใจ), etc.


=== Personal life ===
He ever to be overweight, with weighing nearly 117 kg. So, he had to go on a diet and exercise for a year to lose weight. He still single, and he studying at Chantrakasem Rajabhat University.
He also knows by epithet Luk Chai Haeng Chat (Thai: ลูกชายแห่งชาติ, meaning "the son of nation"), paired with Am Chonthicha who received the epithet Luk Sao Haeng Chart (Thai: ลูกสาวแห่งชาติ, meaning "the daughter of nation").


== Discography ==


=== Singles ===


== See also ==
Am Chonthicha, Thai luk thung singer in 21st century from Isan area.
Biw Jitchareeya, Thai luk thung-mor lam sing singer in 21st century.
Packky Sakonnaree, Thai luk thung singer in 21st century from Isan area.


== References ==

Crinala is a monotypic moth genus of the family Noctuidae erected by Karl Jordan in 1896. Its only species, Crinala mimetica, was first described by Walter Rothschild in 1896. It is found in the Philippines.


== References ==

An All-American team is an honorary sports team composed of the best amateur players of a specific season for each team position—who in turn are given the honorific "All-America" and typically referred to as "All-American athletes", or simply "All-Americans". Although the honorees generally do not compete together as a unit, the term is used in U.S. team sports to refer to players who are selected by members of the national media. Walter Camp selected the first All-America team in the early days of American football in 1889. The 2021 NCAA Women's Basketball All-Americans are honorary lists that include All-American selections from the Associated Press (AP), the United States Basketball Writers Association (USBWA), and the Women's Basketball Coaches Association (WBCA) for the 2020–21 NCAA Division I women's basketball season. Both AP and USBWA choose three teams, while WBCA lists 10 honorees.
A consensus All-America team in women's basketball has never been organized. This differs from the practice in men's basketball, in which the NCAA uses a combination of selections by AP, USBWA, the National Association of Basketball Coaches (NABC), and Sporting News to determine a consensus All-America team. The selection of a consensus All-America men's basketball team is possible because all four organizations select at least a first and second team, with only the USBWA not selecting a third team.
Before the 2017–18 season, it was impossible for a consensus women's All-America team to be determined because the AP had been the only body that divided its women's selections into separate teams. The USBWA first named separate teams in 2017–18. The women's counterpart to the NABC, the Women's Basketball Coaches Association (WBCA), continues the USBWA's former practice of selecting a single 10-member (plus ties) team. Before the 2023–24 season, Sporting News did not select an All-America team in women's basketball.


== By selector ==


=== Associated Press (AP) ===
Announced on March 17, 2021.


==== AP Honorable Mention ====


=== United States Basketball Writers Association (USBWA) ===
Announced on April 2, 2021.


=== Women's Basketball Coaches Association (WBCA) ===
Announced on April 3, 2021.


== By player ==


== Academic All-Americans ==
The College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) announced its 15-member 2021 Academic All-America team on May 28, 2021, divided into first, second and third teams, with Aliyah Boston of South Carolina chosen as women's college basketball Academic All-American of the Year, also becoming the first sophomore so honored in D-I women's basketball.


== Senior All-Americans ==
The 10 finalists for the Senior CLASS Award, called Senior All-Americans, were announced on February 22, 2021. Rennia Davis of Tennessee was named the recipient on April 2, with the first and second teams also being announced at that time.


=== First team ===


=== Second team ===


== References ==

Amy Malek (born c. 1979/1980), is an Iranian-American assistant professor, scholar, and sociocultural anthropologist. She serves as the endowed chair and Director in Iranian and Persian Gulf Studies (IPGS) at Oklahoma State University, Stillwater. Her work focuses on the migration, citizenship, memory, and culture in the Iranian diaspora. Malek is an Iranian-American.


== Education and career ==

Malek has a bachelor's degree (2003) from Emory University; and a Master of Arts degree (2005) in Near Eastern studies from New York University. She holds a Ph.D. (2015) in anthropology from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). While attending UCLA, she took an interest in studying the second generation of Iranian immigrants.
From 2016 to 2022, she was an assistant professor of international studies at the College of Charleston. From 2019 to 2021, Malek was an associate research scholar at Princeton University’s Sharmin and Bijan Mossavar-Rahmani Center for Iran and Persian Gulf Studies. In the Fall of 2022, she joined Oklahoma State University, Stillwater.


== Publications ==
Malek, Amy (September 1, 2006). "Memoir as Iranian exile cultural production: A case study of Marjane Satrapi's Persepolis series". Iranian Studies. 39 (3). Taylor & Francis, Ltd.: 353–380. doi:10.1080/00210860600808201. JSTOR 4311834. S2CID 161807564.
Malek, Amy (2011). "Public performances of identity negotiation in the Iranian diaspora: the New York Persian Day Parade". Comparative Studies of South Asia, Africa and the Middle East. 31 (2). Duke University Press: 388–410. doi:10.1215/1089201X-1264316. S2CID 145683784.
Malek, Amy (June 5, 2012). "Persian Dispersion, A Discussion Of the Effect Of Iranians on Los Angeles-and Angelenos On Iran". Zocalo Public Square.
Malek, Amy (2015). "Claiming Space Documenting Second-generation Iranian Americans in Los Angeles". Anthropology of the Middle East. 10 (2): 16–45. doi:10.3167/ame.2015.100203.
Malek, Amy (Winter 2019). "Paradoxes of Dual Nationality: Geopolitical Constraints on Multiple Citizenship in the Iranian Diaspora". The Middle East Journal. 73 (4). Middle East Institute: 531–534. doi:10.3751/73.4.11. S2CID 213776999.
Malek, Amy (January 9, 2020). "Malek: For Iran's diaspora, plane crash brings grief across oceans and borders". Ottawa Citizen. Postmedia Network Inc.
Malek, Amy (16 March 2020). "Negotiating Memories". In Whitney, Katherine; Emery, Leila (eds.). My Shadow Is My Skin: Voices From the Iranian Diaspora. Austin, TX: University of Texas Press (published March 16, 2020). pp. 102–111. ISBN 9781477320273.
Malek, Amy (September 12, 2020). "Clickbait orientalism and vintage Iranian snapshots". International Journal of Cultural Studies. 24 (2): 266–289. doi:10.1177/1367877920957348. S2CID 225005767.


== See also ==
Iranian nationality law


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Iranian and Persian Gulf Studies (IPGS) website
Amy Malek publications indexed by Google Scholar

John Henry Martey Newman is a Ghanaian administrator, lawyer and a former Chief of Staff of Ghana. He was appointed by President John Atta Mills in 2009 and served in that capacity even after the death of the president in 2012.


== Early life and education ==
Newman had his secondary school education from Mfantsipim School and proceeded to the University of Ghana where he obtained his Bachelor of Arts degree in history and a bachelor of Laws (LLB) Degree. Newman also obtained a certificate in Public Administration from the Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration (GIMPA).


== Career ==
Newman is a barrister at law. He worked at the Ministry of Finance of Ghana from 1969 to 1973. From 1975 to 2001 he worked with Ghana Cocoa Board (COCOBOD) a government-controlled institution manages cocoa in the Ghana. From 1996 till his retirement in 2001 from the board, he served as its chief executive officer.


== Political career ==


=== Chief of Staff ===
On 13 January 2009, he was appointed as the Chief of Staff of Ghana by President John Evans Atta Mills. After the demise of his boss the President, John Evans Atta Mills, Newman was the one who broke the news publicly to the world on a live television broadcast of the death of Ghana's president on 24 July 2012. He remained in that role after John Dramani Mahama was sworn in as president on 24 July 2012 as he served as president for the remaining months to finish the term of Atta Mills.


== Council of state ==
After President John Dramani Mahama won the elections in December 2012, he served as a member of the transitional team and after he was sworn in in January 2013, Newman handed over his duties to Prosper Douglas Bani as the new chief of staff. He was subsequently appointed by John Dramani Mahama to serve as a member of the Council of State and the chairman of the council.


== Personal life ==
He is a Freemason under the Grand Lodge of Ghana.


== References ==

Benno Gerrit Valentijn Kuipers (born 6 March 1974 in Ede, Gelderland) is a former breaststroke swimmer from the Netherlands. Kuipers competed for his native country in two consecutive Summer Olympics, starting in 1996 in Atlanta, Georgia.
After having missed qualification for the European LC Championships 2002 in Berlin, he retired from the international scene. He then became an assistant coach of Fedor Hes in Amsterdam. Kuipers won a total of eighteen Dutch titles during his career, which was plagued by injury.
During his swimming career, Kuipers became 18 times Dutch Champion. Currently Kuipers is known for his open water enthusiasm, he regularly trains in an Amsterdam lake called ‘De Nieuwe Meer’.


== References ==

Dutch Olympic Committee
Profile in Zwemkroniek (in Dutch)

Bertha Crowther, née Bertha Piggott, (9 December 1921 – 8 August 2007) was a British athlete who competed at the 1948 Summer Olympics.


== Biography ==
Crowther became the national 80 metres hurdles champion after winning the British WAAA Championships title at the 1946 WAAA Championships. She also finished third behind Dora Gardner in the high jump event.
Crowther finished second behind Dorothy Tyler in the high jump event and third behind Maureen Gardner in the 80 metres hurdles event at the 1948 WAAA Championships.
Shortly afterwards, representing Great Britain at the 1948 Olympic Games in London, she competed in the women's 80 metres hurdles competition.
Crowther showcased her all round ability by becoming the inaugural national pentathlon champion at the 1949 WAAA Championships. She successfully retained her title the following year at the 1950 WAAA Championships.
She represented England and won a silver medal in the high jump at the 1950 British Empire Games in Auckland, New Zealand. She also competed in the javelin, long jump and 80 metres hurdles.


== References ==


== External links ==
Bertha Crowther at World Athletics
Bertha Crowther at Tilastopaja (registration required)
Bertha Crowther at Olympics.com
Bertha Crowther at Team GB
Bertha Crowther at Olympedia
Bertha Crowther at the Commonwealth Games Federation (archived)
Bertha Crowther at InterSportStats

Nicolas-Henri Jardin (22 March 1720 – 31 August 1799) was a French architect. Born in St. Germain des Noyers, Seine-et-Marne, Jardin worked seventeen years in Denmark–Norway as an architect to the Danish royal court. He introduced neoclassicism to Denmark–Norway.


== Early training and student tour to Italy ==
According to Jardin's own statement he began his architectural studies at the age of ten. It is confirmed by independent source that he started his training at the French Academy of Architecture (Académie royale d'architecture) no later than in 1738, perhaps before. He studied under A.C. Mollet, and won the grand prize (Prix de Rome) for architecture at 22 years of age for his design of a choir or chancel in a cathedral.
The prize won him a travel stipend, which he used to travel to Italy in 1744. There he studied at the French Academy in Rome 1744-1748, while living at the Academy's pension. At the same time he studied mathematics and geometry with Jesuit priest and physicist Ruggero Joseph Boscovich, and graphics presumably with Giuseppe Vasi. He may also have studied engineering while in Rome.
In Italy he was friends with fellow countryman, sculptor Jacques François Joseph Saly who was also on student tour at the time. Saly would play an important role in his future only a few years later. They were both influenced by contemporary Giovanni Battista Piranesi, and the current infatuation with Roman ruins that were seen as a reminder of a common European past, and could be the inspiration for a new universal design style.
He was resident architect with Michel Tannevot in Paris 1753-1754.


== Iconography ==
A painting by Jean Barbault showing Jardin as Ambassador of Persia, Beauvais, Musée départemental de l'Oise, for the Masacarade of 1748.


== Royal invitation to work in Denmark ==
His friend and countryman, sculptor Jacques François Joseph Saly who had been summoned to work in Denmark in 1752 for the royal court, brought Jardin to the attention of King Frederik V as the suitable choice to replace Nicolai Eigtved for the design and building of Frederik's Church (Frederikskirke), now known as The Marble Church (Marmorkirken), work on which had begun in 1749.  A contract to bring Jardin to Denmark was concluded on 12 October 1754, a few months after Eigtved's death, and included a considerable annual wage for both him and his young, inexperienced brother Louis Henri Jardin.
The brothers came to Copenhagen that same autumn, and they both were named members of the Royal Danish Academy of Art (Det Kongelige Danske Kunstakademi) on 15 January 1755.  They were also named professors at the school of the Academy, where story goes, on account of their inability to speak Danish, they held lectures in French to an audience of students that didn't understand them.  This was, however, not unusual at the time, as many of the Academy's teachers were foreigners, especially French, including its director, friend Jacques Saly.  Nicolas-Henri was professor in architecture, and his brother was professor in perspective from 1755.


== Frederik’s Church and other assignments ==
On 1 April 1756 Jardin took over project leadership on Frederik's Church.  His first set of building drawings were different from anything one had previously seen in Denmark, and anticipated the later styles of Claude Nicolas Ledoux and Étienne-Louis Boullée.  The plans, however,  were rejected on account of the exorbitant expense required to carry them out.
He presented a new set of drawings at Fredensborg Palace summer 1756, which the King accepted, in spite of the Royal Building Commission's opinion that these plans also were too expensive.  The King committed funds to the project, although full funding was never realised.
The plans were monumental, and work went slowly. In 1760 after predecessor Lauritz de Thurah’s death, Nicolas-Henri was named Royal Building Master with responsibility over all royal castles and buildings, as well as parks in Denmark, a position he held until 1770.
He also took over the interior decoration (1756-1759) of powerful statesman and leader Court Marshal (Hofmarskal) Adam Gottlob Moltke’s palace, the Moltke Palace, today known as Christian VII’s Palace, at Amalienborg, after Nicolai Eigtved died in 1754.
His younger brother died at Charlottenborg 1759 at the age of 29.  Nicolas-Henri overtook his teaching position.
Prior to 1760 he became an honorary member of the academies in Florence and Bologna.
In 1759 he began work on Bernstorff Palace near Gentofte (1759–1765) and Lundehave, now known as Marienlyst Castle in Helsingør (1758–1762).  The work on the garden at Bernstorff Palace, done in cooperation with Joachim Wasserschlebe, took until 1768 to complete.
In 1762 he became a corresponding member of the French Academy of Art in Paris.  1762–1763 he traveled to France.
In 1764 Frederick’s Church stood only 9.4 meters above the foundation.
In 1765 he published a large folio of copperplate etchings called "Plans, coupés et elevations de l'église royale de Frédéric V".


== A change in the royal chambers ==
King Frederik V, his loyal supporter, died on 14 January 1766 and the young, unstable Christian VII became king. 1768-1769 he traveled to France, England, Holland and Belgium, partly in the company of Johannes Wiedewelt. Prior to 1769 he became an honorary member of the Academy in Marseille.  In 1769 he received the Order of Saint Michael in France.
In 1770 it was estimated that, at the then current rate of building activity, the Frederik's Church exterior would not be complete until 1797, and the interior would take a further 50 years to complete. Due to Johann Friedrich Struensee’s cost-cutting measures, a royal resolution was made on 9 November 1770 that building activity would be stopped for a period of time. Scaffolding, machines and material were sold at public auction, and Jardin was relieved of his duty as Church Building Master with severance pay.


== Departure from Denmark, return to France ==
Struensee fell from power at the beginning of 1771, and the country's general mood turned against all foreigners in positions of power.  Jardin resigned his professorship at the Academy on 26 March 1771 and left Denmark.  His students at the Academy had included Caspar Frederik Harsdorff, Georg Erdmann Rosenberg, Christian Josef Zuber, and Hans Næss.
His friend and Director of the Academy for over 17 years, Jacques Saly, resigned from his post three months later.  Jardin was named an extraordinary member of the Academy in 1772.
On 23 December 1771 he became a member of the French Academy of Art in Paris.  On 11 May 1778 he was named Royal Architect by King Louis XV. On 10 March 1792 he became a member first class of the French Academy of Art in Paris.
During the French Revolution’s Reign of Terror (1793-1794) Jardin retired to his home town.  He died in 1799.
While new plans were again proposed to continue work on Frederik's Church by Caspar Frederik Harsdorff in 1795, no actual construction would begin until Ferdinand Meldahl took over the reins of leadership in 1874.


== Selected works ==
Yellow Mansion, Amaliegade, Copenhagen (1764-1767)
Interior work at Christiansborg Palace (1761-1767), especially decoration of the Great Hall (1765-1766), which burned down in the fire of 1794.
Redesign of Fredensborg Palace Garden and Park (1759-1766), along with Johannes Wiedewelt.
Redesign of summer residence at Bernstorff Palace (1759-1765) for Foreign Minister Johann Hartwig Ernst, Count von Bernstorff.  Gardens at Bernstorff Palace, completed 1768
Redesign of Marienlyst Castle for Count Adam Gottlob Moltke (1759-1763)
Interior work at Bregentved for Count Adam Gottlob Moltke (1762-1764)
Rebuilding of Count Moltke's Glorup Estate on Funen (1763-1765)


== References ==
KID Kunst Index Danmark ("Art Index Denmark")
Danish Biographical Encyclopedia ("Dansk biografisk Leksikion")

See also Saint Julius (disambiguation)

Saint Julian may refer to:

Julian of Alexandria (died 250), one of the Martyrs of Alexandria under Decius
Julian of Carthage (died 259), one of the Martyrs of Carthage under Valerian
Julian of Antioch (died 305), venerated as a Christian martyr of the fourth century
Julian Sabas (died 377), a hermit who is considered a saint.
Julian of Toledo (642–690), Roman Catholic but born to Jewish parents
Julian the Hospitaller, legendary Roman Catholic saint
Julian of Le Mans (died 3rd century), venerated as first bishop of Le Mans
Julian of Cuenca (1127–1208), bishop of Cuenca, Spain
Julian of Antinoe, see Julian and Basilissa
Julian, brother of Julius of Novara
Julian, companion of Lucian of Beauvais
Quintian, Lucius and Julian (died 430), African martyrs
Julian of Emesa
Saint Julian may also refer to:

Saint Julian (album), by Julian Cope
St. Julian's, a town in Malta
St Julians, Newport, a suburb of the city of Newport, United Kingdom
Sankt Julian, a municipality in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany


== See also ==
San Julián (disambiguation)
Julian (disambiguation)
São Julião (disambiguation)
Saint-Julien (disambiguation)
Sant Julià (disambiguation)

A tabloid is a newspaper format characterized by its compact size, smaller than a broadsheet. The term originates from the 19th century, when the London-based pharmaceutical company Burroughs Wellcome & Co. used the term to describe compressed pills, later adopted by newspapers to denote condensed content. There are two main types of tabloid newspaper: red tops and compact, distinguished by editorial style.
Red top tabloids are distinct from broadsheet newspapers, which traditionally cater to more affluent, educated audiences with in-depth reporting and analysis. However, the line between tabloids and broadsheets has blurred in recent decades, as many broadsheet newspapers have adopted tabloid or compact formats to reduce costs and attract readers.
Globally, the tabloid format has been adapted to suit regional preferences and media landscapes. In countries like Germany and Australia, tabloids such as Bild and The Daily Telegraph have significant readerships and political clout.


== Etymology ==

The word tabloid comes from the name given by the London-based pharmaceutical company Burroughs Wellcome & Co. to the compressed tablets they marketed as "Tabloid" pills in the late 1880s.  The word tabloid was soon applied to other small compressed items. A 1902 item in London's Westminster Gazette noted, "The proprietor intends to give in tabloid form all the news printed by other journals." Thus, by 1901, tabloid journalism originally meant condensed stories in a simplified, easily absorbed format. Later, by 1918, tabloid was also being used to refer to smaller sheet newspapers that contained the condensed stories.


== Types ==
Tabloid newspapers, especially in the United Kingdom, vary widely in their target market, political alignment, editorial style, and circulation.  Thus, various terms have been coined to describe the subtypes of this versatile paper format.  There are, broadly, two main types of tabloid newspaper: red top and compact.  The distinction is largely of editorial style; both red top and compact tabloids span the width of the political spectrum from socialism to capitalist conservatism, although red-top tabloids, on account of their historically working-class target market, generally embrace populism to some degree. Red top tabloids are so named due to their tendency, in British and Commonwealth usage, to have their mastheads printed in red ink; the term compact was coined to avoid the connotation of the word tabloid, which implies a red top tabloid, and has lent its name to tabloid journalism, which is journalism after the fashion of red top reporters.


=== Red top tabloids ===

Red top tabloids, named after their distinguishing red mastheads, employ a form of writing known as tabloid journalism; this style emphasizes features such as sensational crime stories, astrology, gossip columns about the personal lives of celebrities and sports stars, and junk food news. Celebrity gossip columns which appear in red top tabloids and focus on their sexual practices, misuse of narcotics, and the private aspects of their lives often border on, and sometimes cross the line of defamation.
Red tops tend to be written with a simplistic, straightforward vocabulary and grammar; their layout usually gives greater prominence to the picture than to the word.  The writing style of red top tabloids is often accused of sensationalism and extreme political bias; red tops have been accused of deliberately igniting controversy and selectively reporting on attention-grabbing stories, or those with shock value. In the extreme case, tabloids have been accused of lying or misrepresenting the truth to increase circulation.
Examples of British red top newspapers include The Sun, the Daily Star and the Daily Mirror. Although not using red mastheads, the Daily Mail and Daily Express also use the 'tabloid journalism' model.  Circulation of the printed newspapers has fallen, and although they have established websites it has been difficult to generate income from them.


=== Compact tabloids ===

In contrast to red-top tabloids, compacts use an editorial style more closely associated with broadsheet newspapers. In fact, most compact tabloids formerly used the broadsheet paper size, but changed to accommodate reading in tight spaces, such as on a crowded commuter bus or train. The term compact was coined in the 1970s by the Daily Mail, one of the earlier newspapers to make the change, although it now once again calls itself a tabloid. The purpose behind this was to avoid the association of the word tabloid with the flamboyant, salacious editorial style of the red top newspaper.
The early converts from broadsheet format made the change in the 1970s; two British papers that took this step at the time were the Daily Mail and the Daily Express. In 2003, The Independent also made the change for the same reasons, quickly followed by The Scotsman and The Times. On the other hand, The Morning Star had always used the tabloid size, but stands in contrast to both the red top papers and the former broadsheets; although The Morning Star emphasizes hard news, it embraces socialism and is circulated mostly among blue-collar labourers.
Compact tabloids, just like broadsheet- and Berliner-format newspapers, span the political spectrum from progressive to conservative and from capitalist to socialist.


== International use ==


=== Africa ===
In Morocco, Maroc Soir, launched in November 2005, is published in tabloid format.
In South Africa, the Bloemfontein-based daily newspaper Volksblad became the first serious broadsheet newspaper to switch to tabloid, but only on Saturdays. Despite the format being popular with its readers, the newspaper remains broadsheet on weekdays. This is also true of Pietermaritzburg's daily, The Witness in the province of KwaZulu-Natal. The Daily Sun, published by Naspers, has since become South Africa's biggest-selling daily newspaper and is aimed primarily at the black working class. It sells over 500,000 copies per day, reaching approximately 3,000,000 readers. Besides offering a sometimes satirical view of the seriousness of mainstream news, the Daily Sun also covers fringe theories and paranormal claims such as tikoloshes, ancestral visions and all things supernatural. It is also published as the Sunday Sun.
In Mauritius, the popular afternoon newspaper Le Mauricien shifted from tabloid (1908–2008) to the Berliner format (2008–2013) and now adopts a compact format with 32 pages during the week and 48 pages on Saturday.


=== Asia ===
In Bangladesh, the Daily Manab Zamin became the first and is now the largest circulated Bengali language tabloid in the world.
In Georgia, the weekly English-language newspaper The Financial switched to a compact format in 2005 and doubled the number of pages in each issue. Other Georgian-language newspapers have tested compact formats in the early 1990s.
Tabloid journalism is still an evolving concept in India's print media. The first tabloid, Blitz  was started by Russi Karanjia on February 1, 1941, with the words "Our Blitz, India's Blitz against Hitler!". Blitz was first published in English and then branched out with Hindi, Marathi and Urdu versions. In 1974, Russi's daughter Rita founded the Cine Blitz magazine. In 2005, Times of India brought out a dedicated Mumbai tabloid newspaper, Mumbai Mirror, which gives prominence to Mumbai-related stories and issues. Tehelka started as a news portal in 2000. It broke the story about match-fixing in Indian and International Cricket and the sting operation on defence deals in the Indian Army. In 2007, it closed shop and reappeared in tabloid form, and has been appreciated for its brand of investigative journalism. Other popular tabloid newspapers in English media are Mid-Day, an afternoon newspaper published out of and dedicated to Mumbai and business newspapers like MINT. There are numerous tabloids in most of India's official languages. There is an all youth tabloid by the name of TILT – The ILIKE Times.
In Indonesia, tabloids include Bola, GO (Gema Olahraga, defunct), Soccer (defunct), Fantasy (defunct), Buletin Sinetron (defunct), Pro TV (defunct), Citra (defunct), Genie, Bintang Indonesia (Indonesian Stars), Nyata, Wanita Indonesia (Women of Indonesia), Cek and Ricek, and Nova.
In Oman, TheWeek is a free, 48-page, all-colour, independent weekly published from Muscat in the Sultanate of Oman. Oman's first free newspaper was launched in March 2003 and has now gone on to gather what is believed to be the largest readership for any publication in Oman. Ms Mohana Prabhakar is the managing editor of the publication. TheWeek is audited by BPA Worldwide, which has certified its circulation as being a weekly average of 50,300.
In Pakistan, Khabrain is a tabloid newspaper popular within the lower middle class. This news group introduced a new paper, Naya Akhbar which is comparably more sensational. At the local level, many sensational tabloids can be seen but, unlike Khabrain or other big national newspapers, they are distributed only on local levels in districts.
Tabloids in the Philippines are usually written in local languages, like Tagalog or Bisaya, one of the listed top Tagalog tabloids is Bulgar, but some are written in English, like the People's Journal and Tempo. Like their common journalistic connotations, Philippine tabloids usually report sensationalist crime stories and celebrity gossip, and some tabloids feature topless photos of girls. Several tabloids are vernacular counterparts of English broadsheet newspapers by the same publisher, like Pilipino Star Ngayon (The Philippine Star), Bandera (Philippine Daily Inquirer), and Balita (Manila Bulletin). In the Southern Philippines, a new weekly tabloid, The Mindanao Examiner, now includes media services, such as photography and video production, into its line as a source to finance the high cost of printing and other expenses. It is also into independent film making.


=== Europe ===
The Berliner format, used by many prominent European newspapers, is sized between the tabloid and the broadsheet. In a newspaper context, the term Berliner is generally used only to describe size, not to refer to other qualities of the publication. The biggest tabloid (and newspaper in general) in Europe, by circulation, is Germany's Bild, with around 2.5 million copies (down from above 5 million in the 1980s). Although its paper size is bigger, its style was copied from the British tabloids.
In Denmark, tabloids in the British sense are known as 'formiddagsblade' (before-noon newspapers), the two biggest being BT and Ekstra Bladet. The old more serious newspaper Berlingske Tidende shifted from broadsheet to tabloid format in 2006, while keeping the news profile intact.
In Finland, the biggest newspaper and biggest daily subscription newspaper in the Nordic countries Helsingin Sanomat changed its size from broadsheet to tabloid on 8 January 2013.
In France, the Nice Matin (or Le Dauphiné), a popular Southern France newspaper changed from Broadsheet to Tabloid on 8 April 2006. They changed the printing format in one day after test results showed that 74% liked the Tabloid format compared to Broadsheet. But the most famous tabloid dealing with crime stories is Le Nouveau Détective, created in the early 20th century. This weekly tabloid has a national circulation.
In the Netherlands, several newspapers have started publishing tabloid versions of their newspapers, including one of the major 'quality' newspapers, NRC Handelsblad, with nrc•next (ceased 2021) in 2006. Two free tabloid newspapers were also introduced in the early 2000s, 'Metro and Sp!ts (ceased 2014), mostly for distribution in public transportation. In 2007, a third and fourth free tabloid appeared, 'De Pers' (ceased 2012) and 'DAG' (ceased 2008). De Telegraaf, came in broadsheet but changed to tabloid in 2014.
In Norway, close to all newspapers have switched from the broadsheet to the tabloid format, which measures 280 x 400 mm. The three biggest newspapers are Dagbladet, VG, and Aftenposten.
In Poland, the newspaper Fakt, sometimes Super Express is considered as tabloid.
In the United Kingdom, three previously broadsheet daily newspapers—The Times, The Scotsman and The Guardian—have switched to tabloid size in recent years, and two—Daily Express and Daily Mail—in former years, although The Times and The Scotsman call the format "compact" to avoid the down-market connotation of the word tabloid. Similarly, when referring to the down-market tabloid newspapers the alternative term "red-top" (referring to their traditionally red-coloured mastheads) is increasingly used, to distinguish them from the up- and middle-market compact newspapers. The Morning Star also comes in tabloid format; however, it avoids celebrity stories, and instead favours issues relating to labour unions.


=== North America ===


==== Canada ====
In Canada many newspapers of Postmedia's Sun brand are in tabloid format and are considered to practice tabloid journalism, including the Toronto Sun, Calgary Sun, Edmonton Sun, and Ottawa Sun (the Winnipeg Sun is no longer owned by Postmedia). Postmedia's The Province, a newspaper for the British Columbia market, is a former broadsheet which now prints in tabloid-size but is not considered a tabloid in the journalistic sense.  The Canadian publisher Black Press publishes newspapers in the provinces of British Columbia and Alberta in both tabloid (10+1⁄4 in (260 mm) wide by 14+1⁄2 in (368 mm) deep) and what it calls "tall tab" format, where the latter is 10+1⁄4 in (260 mm) wide by 16+1⁄4 in (413 mm) deep, larger than tabloid but smaller than the broadsheets it also publishes.
In Quebec, Le Journal de Montréal is a tabloid and has the largest circulation of any French-language newspaper in Canada. Le Journal de Québec is its sister paper in Quebec City. Both newspapers are owned by Quebecor.   


==== United States ====

In the United States, daily tabloids date back to the founding of the New York Daily News in 1919, followed by the New York Daily Mirror, and the New York Evening Graphic in the 1920s. Competition among those three for crime, sex and celebrity news was considered a scandal to the mainstream press of the day. The tabloid format is used by a number of respected and indeed prize-winning American papers. Prominent American tabloids include the New York Post, the Daily News and  Newsday in New York, the San Francisco Examiner, The Bakersfield Californian and La Opinión in California, The Jersey Journal and The Trentonian in New Jersey, the Philadelphia Daily News, the Delaware County Daily Times and The Citizens' Voice, The Burlington Free Press, the Chicago Sun-Times, and the Boston Herald. American tabloids that ceased publication include Denver's Rocky Mountain News.


=== Oceania ===
In Australia, tabloids include The Advertiser, the Herald Sun, The Sun-Herald, The Daily Telegraph, The Courier Mail, The West Australian, The Mercury, the Hamilton Spectator, The Portland Observer, The Casterton News and The Melbourne Observer.


=== South America ===

In Argentina, one of the country's two main newspapers, Clarín, is a tabloid.
In Brazil, many newspapers are tabloids, including sports daily Lance! (which circulates in cities such as Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo), most publications currently and formerly owned by Grupo RBS (especially the Porto Alegre daily Zero Hora), and, in March 2009, Rio de Janeiro-based O Dia switched to tabloid from broadsheet, though, several years later, it reverted to being a broadsheet. Its sister publication, Meia Hora has always been a tabloid, but in slightly smaller format than O Dia and Lance!.


== As a weekly alternative newspaper ==
The more recent usage of the term 'tabloid' refers to weekly or semi-weekly newspapers in tabloid format. Many of these are essentially straightforward newspapers, publishing in tabloid format, because subway and bus commuters prefer to read smaller-size newspapers due to lack of space.
These newspapers are distinguished from the major daily newspapers, in that they purport to offer an "alternative" viewpoint, either in the sense that the paper's editors are more locally oriented, or that the paper is editorially independent from major media conglomerates.
Other factors that distinguish "alternative" weekly tabloids from the major daily newspapers are their less-frequent publication, and that they are usually free to the user, since they rely on ad revenue. Alternative weekly tabloids may concentrate on local and neighbourhood-level issues, and on entertainment in bars, theatres, or other such venues.
Alternative tabloids can be positioned as upmarket (quality) newspapers, to appeal to the better-educated, higher-income sector of the market; as middle-market (popular); or as downmarket (sensational) newspapers, which emphasize sensational crime stories and celebrity gossip. In each case, the newspapers will draw their advertising revenue from different types of businesses or services. An upmarket weekly's advertisers are often organic grocers, boutiques, and theatre companies while a downmarket's may have those of trade schools, supermarkets, and the sex industry. Both usually contain ads from local bars, auto dealers, movie theaters, and a classified ads section.


== See also ==

Paper size


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Bessie, Simon Michael. Jazz Journalism: The Story Of The Tabloid Newspapers (1938) online


== External links ==

Meitei Chanu (Meitei: /mə́i.təi cə.nu/, lit. "Meitei woman") is a Meitei language poem by Lamabam Kamal. It was first published in a magazine, with the same name, called Meitei Chanu (magazine) in the year 1924. It was republished in the author's book of his collection of poems called "Lei Pareng" in the year 1929. Its central theme is the reconfiguration of the identity of the Meitei people.
The poem bountifully reflects the poet's love of his motherland and its heritage.


== Analysis ==
The text of the poem shows the feminization of the language and its literature.
The opening stanza of the poem remarkably implies that the idea of a literary tradition is embodied in the form of a temple that remains empty without a goddess for a very long time. This is a metaphor for an important transformation in history as Mother Meitei: ꯏꯃꯥ, romanized: /í.ma/) or the Meitei Lady  (Meitei: ꯃꯩꯇꯩ ꯆꯅꯨ, romanized: /mə́i.təi cə.nu/) re-occupies the temple. She is able to return to her temple due to western education, imitation, and feminization of language and literature.
The poet emphasises original and the vernacular inspiration and poetic elements to construct the temple of Meitei Chanu, countering a common belief that the Meitei language is insufficient for literary expression. He also imagines a pan-Meitei consciousness expressed through the temple's construction that could end the sickly (Meitei: ꯁꯤꯔꯨꯝ ꯅꯥꯔꯨꯝ, romanized: /si.rum nā.rum/) Meiteis. Meitei unity is necessary to rebuild the temple .
According to the author, the temple should be made up of flowers and its purpose should be to spread across the world and to bloom in the universities. He says that all Meiteis should consider themselves as the children of Meitei Chanu so that the garland of flowers (Meitei: ꯂꯩ ꯄꯔꯦꯡ, romanized: /ləi pə.reŋ/, symbolising "unity") remains strong.
Nearness (Meitei: ꯑꯅꯛꯄ, romanized: /ə.nək.pə/,) becomes the central point of the Meitei world, thereby softly referring to Imphal as the cosmic holy place to the Meitei ethnicity.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Singh, Lamabam Damodar (2000). L. Kamal Singh. Sahitya Akademi. ISBN 978-81-260-0856-8.
Lei Pareng Amasung Thainagee Leirang (in Manipuri). Manipur State Kala Academy, Imphal. 1999. pp. 9–11.

The 1953 Washington Huskies football team was an American football team that represented the University of Washington during the 1953 college football season. In its first season under head coach John Cherberg, the team compiled a 3–6–1 record, finished in seventh place in the Pacific Coast Conference, and outscored its opponents by a combined total of 217 to 154. Vern Lindskog was the team captain.


== Schedule ==


== NFL draft selections ==
Four University of Washington Huskies were selected in the 1954 NFL draft, which lasted 30 rounds with 360 selections.


== Game summaries ==


=== Washington State ===
The game-winning touchdown (Chuck Beckel, 4 yards) came after a Washington punt was blocked by Tom Gunnari deep in Washington territory early in the 4th quarter. 


== References ==

Huracán Fútbol Club de Medellín was a Colombian football club which spent three seasons in the Campeonato Profesional, the top-tier league of Colombian football. The club was formed on 1 May 1949.
Huracán was the third football club from Medellín, competing for fan sympathies with Atlético Nacional and Independiente Medellín, the other two clubs from the city. They entered the 1949 Campeonato Profesional, in which they suffered several thrashings including a 10–2 defeat to Santa Fe and a 7–2 loss to Deportivo Barranquilla, conceding 75 goals in 26 matches. In the 1950 competition, they played the match with the highest scoring draw in the competition's history, drawing with América de Cali by a 6–6 score. Eventually, Huracán conceded 96 goals in the 30 matches of that season.
In the 1951 tournament, Huracán were beaten 9–0 by Deportivo Pereira and 8–0 by Santa Fe, finishing the league in last place with only two wins and 93 goals against in 34 matches. The club withdrew from the league and folded at the end of that year due to its poor performances as well as serious financial problems. During their three-year stay in the professional league, Huracán played 90 matches with 16 wins, 16 draws and 58 losses.


== References ==

Warden Pass (80°28′S 28°20′W) is a snow pass at about 1,000 m trending east–west between the northwest side of Fuchs Dome and Flat Top in the Shackleton Range. The area was surveyed by Commonwealth Trans-Antarctic Expedition in 1957. Named by the United Kingdom Antarctic Place-Names Committee (UK-APC) after Michael A. Warden, British Antarctic Survey (BAS) general assistant, Halley Station, 1970–72, who worked in the area.
Mike Warden writes:  In 1970, after a month traveling through the Shackleton Mountain range, the two sledge parties arranged to rendez vous back at their airdrop depot on the Slessor Glacier on Christmas Day.  But delayed by bad weather, Peter Clarkson, geologist, and Mike "Muff" Warden, doggyman, said that "come hell or high water" we would get back to the depot on New Year's Eve.  A promise we almost regretted making.
On New Year's Eve, we started sledging at 11.15 hours.  The sun was high in the sky so the surfaces were lousy - sticky and soft - making it very heavy work for the two dog teams.  Progress was very slow.  Luckily the up hills were gentle, the down hills fun.  We took a short cut over a pass, now named Warden Pass.  At 20.00 hours, we reached the top of the pass and could see the tent and the other team in the distance at the depot.  We sledged down a long steep slope onto the Slessor Glacier.  We crawled the last section up the glacier on better surfaces.  Our two dog teams were exhausted and didn't even have a final burst of energy when they got sight of the depot which we eventually reached at 22.45 hours.  In my journal I wrote "Both teams were shagged.  Eleven and a half hours of traveling, what a flog.  Hell or high water we said, and so it was.  An epic finish to 1970.  24.8 miles:  dogs treated to 2 bars of Nutrican each for the fourth consecutive night, and they deserved it, bless them."
This was the third consecutive season, and the last, that dog teams were used in the Shackleton Mountains.  A few years later the last dogs were removed from Antarctica following an international agreement that all non indigenous animals should be removed from the Continent.  What is indigenous?  Most of our dogs were at least the third generation that had been bred and born on the continent.  The removal of dogs from the continent brought an end to an era of truly the most reliable and exhilarating forms of transport, dog sledging.  The contribution dogs made to the exploration of the continent has been marked by a statue of a husky placed outside the headquarters of the British Antarctic Survey at Cambridge, UK.
Mike Warden,  15 June 2013
 This article incorporates public domain material from "Warden Pass". Geographic Names Information System. United States Geological Survey.

Patrick Warburton (born November 14, 1964) is an American actor and comedian.  He first gained wide recognition for portraying the recurring role of David Puddy on Seinfeld (1995–1998). Other starring roles on television include title character on The Tick (2001–2002), Jeb Denton on Less than Perfect (2003–2006), Jeff Bingham on Rules of Engagement (2007–2013), and Lemony Snicket on A Series of Unfortunate Events (2017–2019). His prominent film credits include The Woman Chaser (1999), Scream 3 (2000), The Dish (2000), Men in Black II (2002), and Ted (2012).
Warburton also has numerous voice acting roles such as Joe Swanson in Family Guy (1999–present), Kronk in Disney's The Emperor's New Groove (2000), Buzz Lightyear in Buzz Lightyear of Star Command (2000–2001), Mr. Steve Barkin in Kim Possible (2002–2007), Brock Samson in The Venture Bros. (2003–2023), Ken in Bee Movie (2007), Sheriff Bronson Stone in Scooby-Doo! Mystery Incorporated (2010–2013), Flynn in the Skylanders video game series (2011–2016), and Mayor Brian Winddancer in Zootopia 2 (2025). He has also voiced the father of the main character Carl in the audiobooks for the adventure-fantasy books Dungeon Crawler Carl, and within advertising, he plays a "control enthusiast" in commercials for National Car Rental.
In 2025, Warburton also started touring as a stand-up comic.


== Early life ==
Warburton was born in Paterson, New Jersey, on November 14, 1964. He is the son of orthopedic surgeon John Charles Warburton, Jr., and Barbara Jeanne Gratz (an actress credited as Barbara Lord). Warburton and his three sisters, Mary, Lara, and Megan, were raised in a "very religious" and "conservative" Catholic family in Huntington Beach, California, where he attended Saints Simon and Jude Catholic School. Warburton later attended Servite High School (in Anaheim, California), then transferred to Newport Harbor High School (in Newport Beach, California). He studied marine biology at Orange Coast College in Costa Mesa, California, but dropped out to pursue modeling and acting at 19.


== Career ==

In the 1990s, Warburton was known for his recurring role in Seinfeld as David Puddy, an unflappable auto mechanic who was the on-again, off-again boyfriend of Elaine Benes (Julia Louis-Dreyfus). He played Eric in the sitcom Dave's World, and had a small role in the 2002 film Men in Black II as J's new partner, T.
Warburton played the title role in Fox's short-lived series The Tick. He has repeatedly criticized FOX's mismanagement of the series after its cancellation, stating that the network "apparently didn't have a clue". In 2016, he was a producer for the Amazon streaming version of the series.
He played Nick Sharp in 8 Simple Rules and in 2003, joined the cast of Less than Perfect as anchorman Jeb Denton. He also played Jeff Bingham in Rules of Engagement and Rip Riley in the FX series Archer.

Warburton has provided voices for various animated films and TV programs, including a lead character in Game Over, Buzz Lightyear and the Little Green Men in Buzz Lightyear of Star Command, and Kronk in The Emperor's New Groove, with David Spade, Eartha Kitt, and John Goodman. Spade and Warburton reunited for the CBS sitcom Rules of Engagement, which aired from 2007 to 2013, and Joe Dirt 2: Beautiful Loser in 2015. Warburton reprised his role as Kronk for the direct-to-video sequel Kronk's New Groove and the subsequent TV series The Emperor's New School. He voiced Steve Barkin in the Disney Channel show Kim Possible.
Warburton was also cast in The Venture Bros., where he voices Brock Samson and voices Joe Swanson on Fox's Family Guy and Detective Cash in The Batman. He recorded voices for the animated feature films Hoodwinked!, Chicken Little, Open Season, as well as the DreamWorks animated films Bee Movie and Mr. Peabody & Sherman. In video games, he voiced Lok in the Tak and the Power of Juju video game series and has also reprised the role again in the television series of the same name, as well as Flynn in the Skylanders series. He was also the voice of Commander Blaine H. Tate on the Comedy Central animated series Moonbeam City in October 2015.
Warburton appeared on GSN's Poker Royale Celebrities vs. the Pros tournament in 2005, winning the tournament and the $50,000 grand prize. On November 8, 2009, he appeared as Wild West character Cal Johnson on Seth & Alex's (Almost Live) Comedy Show, hosted by Seth MacFarlane and Alex Borstein on Fox. He was also cast as Sheriff Bronson Stone in the Cartoon Network series Scooby-Doo! Mystery Incorporated, and appeared as Bowser in a video by CollegeHumor, "The Roast of Mario".
He appeared on the American version of Top Gear on February 21, 2012, where he set the "Big Star, Small Car" lap record, beating previous record holder Arlene Tur.
On February 1, 2014, Warburton hosted the 41st Annie Awards.
Warburton starred in the 2016 NBC sitcom Crowded, where Carrie Preston and he played parents who were about to enjoy their empty-nest years, only to find their daughters and his parents moving back in with them. It ran for one season of 13 episodes.
He is featured as a flight attendant in the "preboarding" video shown to guests at Soarin' Around the World in Disney California Adventure in Anaheim, California, and Epcot at the Walt Disney World Resort in Orlando, Florida, where he explains the ride's requirements, reprising his role from the preboarding video of the predecessor ride, Soarin' Over California. He lent his voice to the droid G2-4T in the queue of Star Tours: The Adventures Continue at Disney's Hollywood Studios in Orlando and Disneyland in Anaheim.
He starred as Lemony Snicket in the Netflix comedy drama series A Series of Unfortunate Events.
In 2019, he appeared as Lt. Tharl in The Orville. He also played Rick Stoner in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.

Despite being a lifelong fan of the Los Angeles Kings hockey team, Warburton has appeared at multiple New Jersey Devils games with his face (and chest) painted similar to that of his Devils-crazed role in an episode of Seinfeld, exhorting the crowd in a manner like that of his David Puddy character. His real-life relationship with the Devils began when the team invited him to drop the ceremonial first puck of the 1995 season, and he showed up with his face painted. After dropping the puck, he slipped and fell, but rescued the moment by regaining his balance and ripping off his shirt to reveal his chest was painted with the letter "D", which came to be regarded as an iconic moment in Devils history. The Devils gave out a Puddy bobblehead doll to fans at a 2019 game.
In the commercial and advertising world, Warburton is the voice in the Carrier Corporation commercials for their air-conditioning and HVAC units, and was the voice of Superman in The Adventures of Seinfeld and Superman for American Express. He is the voice of Lewis in the "Clark and Lewis Expedition" radio commercials for Horizon Air. In August 2009, he played a high-end computer in a "Get a Mac" advertisement for Apple Inc. He became the spokesman for Japanese automaker Honda's "Good Reasons" advertising campaign in September 2011. He is the voice in NAPA's "Can of Know How" commercial. In 2015, he appeared in National Car Rental's "Be the Boss of You" commercials. He is the voice of the current "Discover Fresh" radio ad campaign by Souplantation, a California-based buffet-style restaurant chain (known as Sweet Tomatoes in other markets).
Warburton is also the voice of Ranger, a forest ranger, in a series of radio spots for the national Smokey Bear campaign sponsored by the United States Forest Service and the Ad Council. In 2003, he appeared in the M&M's commercial "You Don't Eat Your Own Kind". More recently, Warburton has begun a career in stand-up comedy, and has actively toured the U.S. In December of 2025, he released his first comedy special, Still Catholic. 


== Personal life ==
In 1991, Warburton married Cathy Jennings, whom he met in college. The couple have three sons named Talon, Gabriel, and Shane, and one daughter named Alexandra. They live in Santa Rosa Valley, California. In his free time, Warburton enjoys birdwatching and playing golf. 
Warburton is a Catholic and has said that he is willing to turn off Family Guy "when it takes its religious humor too far", perceiving such moments "as diminished returns". His mother, Barbara Warburton, is a member of the Parents Television Council, which is severely critical of Family Guy, on which he voices Joe Swanson. Politically, Warburton has described himself as a "lifelong conservative" with "very liberal views" on some issues. He said that he was rooting for Donald Trump in the 2016 presidential election but also said that he didn't vote for Trump or Hillary Clinton, saying that "there wasn't a candidate that represented me."
Warburton has been involved in charitable acts. His wife and he have visited patients at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. He also hosts an annual celebrity golf tournament, The Warburton, in Palm Desert to raise money for the hospital. The event combines golf, music, and the local community; in total, he has raised over $30 million since the event's inception in 2005.
On March 8, 2026, Warburton served as the Grand Marshal for the 2026 Straight Talk Wireless 500.


== Filmography ==


=== Film ===


=== Television ===


=== Video games ===


=== Theme parks ===


== Awards and nominations ==


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Patrick Warburton at Wikimedia Commons
 Quotations related to Patrick Warburton at Wikiquote
Patrick Warburton at IMDb
Fletch Takes On "The Puddy", 2004 interview by Clint Fletcher on filmmonthly.com; accessed October 31, 2014.

Canary Creek is a 4.09 mi (6.58 km) long first-order tributary to the Broadkill River in Sussex County, Delaware.


== Course ==
Canary Creek rises on the Wolfe Glade divide in Lewes, Delaware, and then flows generally northwest to join the Broadkill River about 1-mile northwest of Lewes, Delaware.


== Variant names ==
According to the Geographic Names Information System, it has also been known historically as:

Canarical Creek
Canarikill
Pagan Creek


== Watershed ==
Canary Creek drains 4.81 square miles (12.5 km2) of area, receives about 45.4 in/year of precipitation, and is about 3.19% forested.


== See also ==
List of rivers of Delaware


== References ==

Rusi or RUSI may refer to:


== Places in Romania ==
Ruși River, Romania
Ruși, a district in the town of Zlatna, Alba County
Ruși, a village in Bretea Română, Hunedoara County
Ruși, a village in Slimnic, Sibiu County
Ruși, a village in Forăști, Suceava County
Ruși, a village in Puiești, Vaslui


== People ==
Alpo Rusi (born 1949), Finnish diplomat
Jukka Rusi (1935–2004), Finnish journalist and spy
Lin Rusi, better known as Adet Lin (1923–1971), Chinese-American novelist and translator


== Other uses ==
Royal United Services Institute, a British defence and security think tank
Republic of the United States of Indonesia, a former federal state
Rusi (film), a 1984 Tamil-language Indian feature film


== See also ==
Ruși-Ciutea, a village in Letea Veche Commune, Bacău County, Romania
Rușii-Munți, a commune in Mureș County, Romania

A coup d'état in Haiti on 29 February 2004, following several weeks of conflict, resulted in the removal of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide from office. On 5 February, a rebel group, called the National Revolutionary Front for the Liberation and Reconstruction of Haiti, took control of Haiti's fourth-largest city, Gonaïves. By 22 February, the rebels had captured Haiti's second-largest city, Cap-Haïtien and were besieging the capital, Port-au-Prince by the end of February. On the morning of 29 February, Aristide resigned under controversial circumstances and was flown from Haiti by U.S. military and security personnel. He went into exile, being flown directly to the Central African Republic, before eventually settling in South Africa. Following Aristide's departure, an interim government led by President Boniface Alexandre and Prime Minister Gérard Latortue was installed, and 2,700 foreign troops were deployed to Haiti under the U.S.-led Operation Secure Tomorrow to stop the breakdown of public order. The operation was later replaced by the United Nations Stabilisation Mission in Haiti.
Aristide, while still being the most popular politician in Haiti, faced growing opposition after the 1990s. His political party Fanmi Lavalas won the May 2000 parliamentary election, though the results of some Senate races were disputed by opposition parties because of how the votes were tabulated by the Provisional Electoral Council. They also claimed that the council was not independent. The government still certified the results, and the opposition boycotted the November 2000 presidential election, in which Aristide was re-elected for a second term. 
Although the Senate vote tabulation was not believed to have changed the outcome of those races, the government was criticized for its lack of a response by the Organization of American States (OAS), the United States, Canada, and the European Union, which suspended foreign aid to Haiti. The Aristide administration agreed to a plan negotiated with the U.S. to address election-related concerns, but the opposition refused to cooperate for years, and foreign aid was withheld because of the delay. There were also anti-government demonstrations in 2002, 2003, and 2004, which became increasingly violent. A rebellion broke out, which included a core of ex-army paramilitary groups that had been disbanded during Aristide's presidency due to their history of committing atrocities and involvement in the 1991 military coup. The Haitian National Police became outgunned and outnumbered by the rebels and gangs.
Aristide afterwards claimed that he had been kidnapped by U.S. forces, accusing them of having orchestrated a coup d'état against him, a claim denied by U.S. officials. In 2022, a dozen Haitian and French officials told The New York Times that Aristide's earlier calls for reparations had caused France to side with Aristide's opponents and collaborate with the United States to remove him from power. This claim was, however, denied by the United States Ambassador to Haiti at the time, James Brendan Foley. After the coup, Haiti experienced worsening political, economic, and humanitarian crises, and increased foreign involvement in its politics. Before 2004, there had been two peaceful transitions of power from one elected Haitian president to another, in 1996 and 2001. Since 2004 there has only been one, in 2011.


== Events prior to the coup d'état ==


=== Controversy over elections in 2000 ===
The May 2000 general election resulted in a sweep of 7,500 political offices in Haiti by Fanmi Lavalas (FL), the political party founded by former president Jean-Bertrand Aristide in 1996. Their opposition was divided, and Aristide had been the most popular politician in Haiti since his victory in December 1990 presidential election. The Organization of American States (OAS) observer mission initially described the elections as a success. However, the opposition in Haiti accused FL and the Provisional Electoral Council (CEP) of election fraud, and later so did Europe and the United States. Haitian electoral law required a run-off if no candidate won over 50% of the vote in the first round, but in some of the races for the nineteen Senate seats, the council only counted the votes of the top four candidates in each department race instead of the votes for every candidate. This change in vote tabulation benefited FL, and other concerns were also raised, such as the independence of the council. The National Coalition for Haitian Rights (NCHR) also stated that there were delays in the distribution of voter identification cards. U.S. Congressman John Conyers wrote:

Unfortunately, there were irregularities that occurred in the election and there is a post-election problem of the vote count that is threatening to undo the democratic work of the citizens of Haiti. Without doubt there were irregularities that occurred in the election which have been conceded by the CEP.
The Senate vote tabulation has been described as a small technicality that would not have changed the outcome of those races, but it turned into an international controversy. Based on some of the Senate races, the OAS observer mission later characterized the election as flawed and asked the Haitian government to address the concerns. The government ignored the request and the certified the results, causing the OAS to withdraw its observer mission. The leading opposition parties – including Espace de Concertation (EC) of Evans Paul and Serge Gilles, the National Christian Movement of Haiti (MOCHRENA), the Struggling People's Organization (OPL) of Gérard Pierre-Charles, and Rally of Progressive National Democrats (RNDP) of Leslie Manigat – declared a boycott of the November 2000 presidential election. Some of the opposition later formed the coalition Convergence Démocratique (CD). The coalition demanded the resignation of President René Préval and the annulment of the entire May election for all 7,500 offices, not just the disputed ones. CD was a mix of social democratic, right-wing, business-linked, or neo-Duvalierist factions with little public support, viewed by many as a creation of the urban-based political elite. Aristide's supporters claim that an opposition boycott of the election was used as a ploy in order to discredit it.
In response to this controversy, in September 2000 the U.S. and Canada decided to not provide any assistance for the presidential election. European nations suspended government-to-government assistance to Haiti. The U.S. Congress banned any U.S. assistance from being channeled through the Haitian government, codifying an existing situation. Ultimately $500 million in foreign aid was suspended. Aristide won another presidential term with over 90% of the vote in the November election, which was not funded or observed by international partners, against several unknown candidates. The high voter turnout was rejected by the opposition and questioned by foreign diplomats. Aristide met with U.S. National Security Advisor Anthony Lake and reached an agreement to hold Senate run-off elections, and to appoint a cabinet and an election council that included the opposition. The plan was later endorsed by the George W. Bush administration and the OAS. Although the Aristide government took measures to implement the agreement, the opposition represented by CD refused to participate in the process, and it had allies in the U.S. Congress. Even after Aristide convinced several FL senators to resign, the foreign aid to Haiti was not restored. 
The Ottawa Initiative on Haiti was a conference hosted by Canada that took place at Meech Lake, Quebec (a federal government resort near Ottawa) on 31 January and 1 February 2003, to decide the future of Haiti's government, though no Haitian government officials were invited. Journalist Michel Vastel leaked information about the conference that he says was told to him by his friend and conference host Denis Paradis, Canada's Secretary of State for Latin America, Africa, and the French-speaking world, in his 15 March 2003, article in Quebec news magazine L'actualité. In the article, he claims that the officials at the conference wanted to see regime change in Haiti in less than a year. "Michel Vastel wrote that the possibility of Aristide's departure, the need for a potential trusteeship over Haiti, and the return of Haiti's dreaded military were discussed by Paradis and the French Minister for La Francophonie, Pierre-André Wiltzer." Paradis later denied this, but neither Vastel nor L'actualite retracted the story.
CD continued refusing to cooperate and demanded the resignation of Aristide right up until the coup, and some donors, such as the EU, continued blocking foreign aid over the election dispute despite worsening economic conditions in Haiti. At the same time, the government, which faced growing protests during 2003, used street gangs to attack the demonstrators. The Haitian National Police (PNH) was accused of human rights abuses and of being biased in the political dispute. Multiple protests by Haitian students were organized in 2002, 2003 and 2004 against the Aristide government. On 5 December 2003, some of Aristide's supporters, backed by the police according to witnesses, entered the social studies department of the Université d'État d'Haïti to attack students who were rallying for an anti-government protest later that day. Dozens of students were injured and the University dean had his legs broken. This event led to more protests by students, eventually joined by other groups. A student protest against Aristide on 7 January 2004 led to a clash with police and Aristide supporters that left two dead.


=== Aristide's request for reparations and other policies ===
In 2003, Aristide requested that France pay Haiti over US$21 billion in reparations, which he said was the equivalent in today's money Haiti was forced to pay Paris after winning independence from France 200 years ago.
The United Nations Security Council, of which France is a permanent member, rejected a 26 February 2004 appeal from the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) for international peacekeeping forces to be sent into its member state Haiti, but voted unanimously to send in troops three days later, just hours after Aristide's forced resignation.
"I believe that (the call for reparations) could have something to do with it, because they (France) were definitely not happy about it, and made some very hostile comments," Myrtha Desulme, chairperson of the Haiti-Jamaica Exchange Committee, told IPS. "(But) I believe that he did have grounds for that demand, because that is what started the downfall of Haiti," she says."
During Aristide's second administration in 2003, he doubled the minimum wage, which impacted over 20,000 people who worked in the Port-au-Prince assembly sector. Furthermore, the Aristide government launched a campaign to collect unpaid taxes and utility bills from Haiti’s wealthy population, seeking to reign in the business elite; such developments deeply unsettled the country’s aristocracy.
Following the 2004 Haitian coup d'état, the appointed provisional prime minister Gerard Latortue rescinded the reparations demand.


=== Security and cross-border paramilitary campaign ===
Both Aristide and his opposition had armed gangs. The role of right-wing paramilitary groups in violently targeting activists and government officials aligned with the Aristide government has been well documented. Freedom of Information Act documents have shown how paramilitary forces received support from sectors of Haiti's elite as well as from sectors of the Dominican military and government at the time. According to researcher Jeb Sprague, these groups also had contact with U.S. and French intelligence. One of their leaders was Louis-Jodel Chamblain, a founder of the paramilitary Front for the Advancement and Progress of Haïti (FRAPH), who was sentenced in absentia to life in prison for the murder of the activist Antoine Izmery in 1993. FRAPH had been created by Raoul Cédras during the military regime of the early 1990s to suppress both the pro-Aristide forces and other rivals. The Dominican-based paramilitary forces were involved in the assassination of the journalist Jean Dominique in 2000, the attack on the police academy in July 2001, and the attempted coup against Aristide in December 2001. Aristide's armed opposition eventually included defecting paramilitaries from his side, neo-Duvalierists, and/or drug lords, including the so-called Liberation Army, the Kosovo Army, and the Cannibal Army.
After abolishing the Armed Forces of Haiti (FAd'H) in December 1994, Aristide established the Haitian National Police (PNH). The early recruits of the new force received intensive training from French, Canadian, and U.S. forces, and initially performed well. However, Aristide replaced the professional leadership of the PNH in 1997 with a new one based on loyalty to himself, and overlooked corruption from those that were loyal to him. The U.S. foreign aid cut off to Haiti in 2000 included judicial and police assistance, and the PNH rapidly declined without direct support. The Haitian police became incompetent and corrupt, and some of its members were involved in drug trafficking. Aristide also used gangs against his opponents, and allowed former Duvalierist Tonton Macoutes paramilitary members to join both them and the PNH.


== Coup d'état ==
In September 2003, Amiot Métayer was found dead, his eyes shot out and his heart cut out, most likely the result of machete-inflicted wounds. He was, prior to his death, the leader of the Gonaives gang known as "The Cannibal Army." After his death, his brother Buteur Métayer swore vengeance against those he felt responsible for Amiot's death—namely, President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Buteur took charge of the Cannibal Army and promptly renamed it the National Revolutionary Front for the Liberation of Haiti.  In October 2003, France tasked philosopher Régis Debray with leading a commission in Haiti to improve bilateral relations, though strictly instructed him to not discuss potential reparations. In December 2003, Debray said that he had visited the presidential palace to warn Aristide not to have a fate like President of Chile Salvador Allende, who died during the 1973 Chilean coup, with the philosopher telling the president that the United States was planning his overthrow.
On 5 February 2004, this rebel group seized control of Haiti's fourth-largest city, Gonaïves, marking the beginning of a minor revolt against Aristide. During their sack of the city, they burned the police station and looted it for weapons and vehicles, which they used to continue their campaign down the coast. By 22 February, the rebels had captured Haiti's second-largest city, Cap-Haïtien. As the end of February approached, rebels threatened to take the capital, Port-au-Prince, fueling increasing political unrest and the building of barricades throughout the capital. Haitians fled their country on boats, seeking to get to the United States. The Haitian National Police collapsed during the rebel advance.
On the morning of 29 February, Deputy Chief of Mission Luis G. Moreno arrive at the presidential palace with Diplomatic Security Service officers and asked President Aristide for a resignation letter. The resignation letter was written in Haitian Creole and its wording was unclear. That same day, Canadian special forces secured Haiti's main airport after which Aristide was flown out of the country on a U.S. plane accompanied by US security personnel as the rebels took over the capital and was flown without knowledge of his route and destination. At the time of the flight, France contacted three African nations in attempts to accept Aristide, though they refused, with the Central African Republic ultimately accepting the ousted president who arrived in Bangui via Antigua.
Many international politicians, including members of the U.S. congress and the Jamaican Prime Minister, expressed concern that the United States had interfered with Haiti's democratic process, accusing them of removing Aristide with excessive force. According to Rep. Maxine Waters D-California, Mildred Aristide called her at her home at 6:30 am to inform her "the coup d'etat has been completed", and Jean-Bertrand Aristide said the U.S. Embassy in Haiti's chief of staff came to his house to say he would be killed "and a lot of Haitians would be killed" if he refused to resign immediately and said he "has to go now." Rep. Charles Rangel, D-New York expressed similar words, saying Aristide had told him he was "disappointed that the international community had let him down" and "that he resigned under pressure" – "As a matter of fact, he was very apprehensive for his life. They made it clear that he had to go now or he would be killed." When asked for his response to these statements Colin Powell said that "it might have been better for members of Congress who have heard these stories to ask us about the stories before going public with them so we don't make a difficult situation that much more difficult" and he alleged that Aristide "did not democratically govern or govern well". Jamaican Prime Minister P. J. Patterson released a statement saying "we are bound to question whether his resignation was truly voluntary, as it comes after the capture of sections of Haiti by armed insurgents and the failure of the international community to provide the requisite support. The removal of President Aristide in these circumstances sets a dangerous precedent for democratically elected governments anywhere and everywhere, as it promotes the removal of duly elected persons from office by the power of rebel forces."


== Aftermath ==
Following Aristide's resignation under U.S. and French pressure, Supreme Court Chief Justice Boniface Alexandre succeeded him as interim president under a Haitian constitutional provision for presidential vacancies. He was supported by a seven-member council set up in accordance with a plan from the Caribbean Community to restore political stability, which interviewed three candidates for a new prime minister. They included Hérard Abraham, a former general in the disbanded Haitian army; Smarck Michel, a former prime minister under Aristide; and Gérard Latortue, a businessman and former foreign minister. Latortue was selected as prime minister, and he spoke in Gonaïves a week after the coup, alongside Louis-Jodel Chamblain. He called the neo-Duvalierists "freedom fighters" and asked for a moment of silence for those that died "fighting against the dictatorship." A number of figures from Haiti's past re-appeared in government after the rebellion, including Hérard Abraham at the Ministry of the Interior, Williams Régala (a former aide to Henri Namphy) and Colonel Henri-Robert Marc-Charles, a member of the post-1991 military junta.
Alexandre petitioned the UN Security Council for the intervention of an international peacekeeping force. The Security Council passed a resolution the same day, "[t]aking note of the resignation of Jean-Bertrand Aristide as President of Haiti and the swearing-in of President Boniface Alexandre as the acting President of Haiti in accordance with the Constitution of Haiti" and authorized such a mission. To prevent the breakdown of public order, under Operation Secure Tomorrow a force of about 1,700 United States Marines arrived in Haïti within the day, and 1,000 Canadian, French and Chilean troops were also sent. Some of the deployed Marines were of Haitian origin and they provided the force with local language and cultural knowledge. On 1 June 2004, the peacekeeping mission was passed to MINUSTAH and comprised a 7000-person force led by Brazil and backed up by Argentina, Chile, Jordan, Morocco, Nepal, Peru, Philippines, Spain, Sri Lanka and Uruguay.


=== Continued violence ===
The interim government was incapable of restoring the rule of law and public safety, and had to rely on assistance from international peacekeeping forces, which were too few to maintain stability in the entire country. The Haitian National Police, described by Human Rights Watch as "a demoralized and discredited force by the end of the Aristide presidency", was under-equipped, poorly trained, and outgunned and outnumbered by street gangs, former soldiers, and other armed groups. Police officers were also accused of human rights violations. There was an escalation in violence in the fall of 2004, including from some gangs that claimed to be supporters of the deposed president Aristide. As of August 2005, neither the PNH nor the foreign peacekeepers had arrested the heavily armed former paramilitary members, who remained at large. In August 2006, the administration of René Préval adopted a police reform plan.
In November 2004, the University of Miami School of Law carried out a Human Rights Investigation in Haiti and documented serious human rights abuses. It stated that "Summary executions are a police tactic." It also stated the following:

U.S. officials blame the crisis on armed gangs in the poor neighborhoods, not the official abuses and atrocities, nor the unconstitutional ouster of the elected president. Their support for the interim government is not surprising, as top officials, including the Minister of Justice, worked for U.S. government projects that undermined their elected predecessors. Coupled with the U.S. government's development assistance embargo from 2000–2004, the projects suggest a disturbing pattern.
On 15 October 2005, Brazil called for more troops to be sent due to the worsening situation in the country.


== CARICOM ==
CARICOM (Caribbean Community) governments denounced the removal of Aristide from government. They also questioned the legality of the new government. The Prime Minister of Jamaica, P. J. Patterson, said that the episode set "a dangerous precedent for democratically elected governments anywhere and everywhere, as it promotes the removal of duly elected persons from office by the power of rebel forces."
As reported by the BBC, on 3 March 2004, CARICOM called for an independent inquiry into the departure of former Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide and says it would not be sending peacekeepers. Patterson said there had been no indication during discussions with the U.S. and France that the plan which CARICOM had put forward prior to Aristide's departure was not acceptable. "In respect of our partners we can only say this, at no time in our discussions did they convey to us that the plan was unacceptable so long as president Aristide remained in office. Nor did they suggest to us anything of a nature pertaining to the conduct of President Aristide in office that would cause us to come to the judgment ourselves that he was unsuited to be the President of Haïti," Mr. Patterson said. The U.S. and France have been accused of using pressure on CARICOM to not make a formal UN request for an investigation into the circumstances surrounding Aristide's removal.
The CARICOM initially refused to recognize the interim government, but in 2006 the newly elected René Préval resumed his country's membership in the organization.


== French and U.S. involvement ==

In 2022, the French ambassador to Haiti at the time, Thierry Burkard, told The New York Times, that France and the United States had "effectively orchestrated "a coup" against Aristide by pressuring him to step down and taking him into exile". He stated French involvement was likely partly motivated by Aristide's call for reparations from France. Another French ambassador, Philippe Selz, told the paper that the decision "to extradite" President Aristide had been made in advance. In response to The New York Times reporting, James Brendan Foley, United States Ambassador to Haiti at the time of the coup, criticized the report's allegation that the U.S. had collaborated with France to overthrow Aristide, stating that "no evidence was presented in support of such a historically consequential claim". He called the claims by the French officials untrue, stating that it was never U.S. policy to remove Aristide. He said that Aristide had requested a U.S. rescue and that the decision to "dispatch a plane to carry him to safety" had been agreed upon following night-time discussions at the behest of Aristide.
On 1 March 2004, US congresswoman Maxine Waters, along with Aristide family friend Randall Robinson, reported that Aristide had told them (using a smuggled cellular phone), that he had been forced to resign and abducted from the country by the United States. He said he had been held hostage by an armed military guard.
Aristide later repeated the same thing, in an interview with Amy Goodman of Democracy Now! on 16 March. Goodman asked Aristide if he resigned, and President Aristide replied: "No, I didn't resign. What some people call 'resignation' is a 'new coup d'état,' or 'modern kidnapping.'"
Many supporters of the Fanmi Lavalas party and Aristide, as well as some foreign supporters, denounced the rebellion as a foreign controlled coup d'état orchestrated by Canada, France and the United States deletto remove a democratically elected president. Some have come forward to support his claim saying they witnessed him being escorted out by American soldiers at gunpoint. Economist Jeffrey Sachs wrote that "this U.S. administration froze all multilateral development assistance to Haiti ... U.S. officials surely knew that the aid embargo would mean a balance-of-payments crisis, a rise in inflation and a collapse of living standards, all of which fed the rebellion."
Sources close to Aristide also claim the Bush administration blocked attempts to reinforce his bodyguards. The Steele Foundation, the San Francisco-based organization which supplied Aristide's bodyguards, declined to comment.
According to a Washington Times article of April 2004:

Mr. Aristide, who accuses the United States and France of conspiring to force him out of power, filed a lawsuit in Paris last week accusing unnamed French officials of 'death threats, kidnapping and sequestration' in connection with his flight to Africa.
The Bush administration insists that Mr. Aristide had personally asked for help and voluntarily boarded a U.S. plane. 'He drafted and signed his letter of resignation all by himself and then voluntarily departed with his wife and his own security team,' Mr. Powell said.
The US denied the accusations. "He was not kidnapped," Secretary of State Colin Powell said. "We did not force him onto the airplane. He went on the airplane willingly and that's the truth." The kidnapping claim is "absolutely false," concurred Parfait Mbaye, the communications minister for the Central African Republic, where Aristide's party was taken. The minister told CNN that Aristide had been granted permission to land in the country after Aristide himself – as well as the U.S. and French governments – requested it.
According to the US, as the rebels approached the capital, James B. Foley, U.S. ambassador to Haiti, got a phone call from a high-level aide to Aristide, asking if the U.S. could protect Aristide and help facilitate his departure if he resigned. The call prompted a series of events that included a middle-of-the-night phone call to President Bush and a scramble to find a plane to carry Aristide into exile. Foley said that he traveled voluntarily via motorcade to the airport with his own retinue of security guards, including some contracted Americans. Before takeoff, Aristide gave a copy of his resignation letter to Foley's aide.
The Associated Press reported that the Central African Republic tried to get Aristide to stop repeating his charges to the press.
Aristide has also denied that a letter he left behind constitutes an official resignation. "There is a document that was signed to avoid a bloodbath, but there was no formal resignation," he said. "This political kidnapping was the price to pay to avoid a bloodbath." According to the US embassy translation it reads "Tonight I am resigning in order to avoid a bloodbath. I accept to leave, with the hope that there will be life and not death." A slightly different translation was given by Albert Valdman, a linguistics professor and specialist in Haitian Creole at Indiana University in Bloomington, Ind. "If tonight it is my resignation that will avoid a bloodbath, I accept to leave with the hope that there will be life and not death."


== See also ==
Emmanuel Wilmer
List of wars: 2003–present
United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti
2001 Haitian coup attempt


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
2019 documentary film on Canada's role in Haiti since 2003: Haiti Betrayed
The 2004 removal of Jean-Bertrand Aristide—Timeline of events
Extensive coverage of the coup—Provided by Democracy Now!.
Archive of broadcasts on the Haiti coup and its aftermath—Provided by Flashpoints.
Haiti Watch—Provided by ZNet.
PBS NewsHour coverage
The Week of War – The final week of Jean Bertrand Aristide
A political website dedicated to political activism on Canada's role in Haiti
CIIA Development and Inequality Symposium Paper (March 2006)—Paper examining repression in the post-coup period and link to Canadian policy
"Review of Peter Hallward, Damming the Flood: Haiti, Aristide, and the Politics of Containment (2008), Randall Robinson, An Unbroken Agony: Haiti, From Revolution to the Kidnapping of a President (2007), and Alex Dupuy, The Prophet and Power: Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haiti, and the International Community (2006)". NACLA Report on the Americas. November–December 2008. Issue Vol. 41, No. 6. By Jeb Sprague.
The Other Regime Change by Max Blumenthal, Salon.com, July 2004
Operation Secure Tomorrow by GlobalSecurity.org
Walt Bogdanich and Jenny Nordberg, 29 January 2006, "Mixed U.S. Signals Helped Tilt Haiti Toward Chaos", The New York Times

Barbara Dudley Alexander is an American infectious disease physician. She is a professor of medicine and pathology at the Duke University School of Medicine.
Alexander earned an M.D. at ECU Brody School of Medicine in 1993. She completed a residency in medicine at Duke University. She conducted fellowships in infectious diseases and medical microbiology at Duke University. Alexander was president of the Infectious Diseases Society of America.


== References ==

Philippe de Weck (French pronunciation: [fɪˈlip də vɛk]; 2 January 1919 - 11 December 2009) was a Swiss banker and banking executive. Most notably he was the president of the Swiss Bank Corporation (predecessor of UBS) from 1976 to 1980. He was also a board member of Nestlé, Sulzer, BBC and Oerlikon-Bührle.


== Early life and education ==
De Weck was born 2 January 1919 in Fribourg, Switzerland to Pierre de Weck (1888-1973), a state attorney, and Lucie de Weck (née Glasson). He was a grandson of private banker and mayor of Fribourg Ernest de Weck. He was a member of the Fribourg patriciate De Weck family. He completed his Maturité at Collège Saint-Michel and graduated with a licentiate degree in law from University of Fribourg.


== Career ==
In 1945, de Weck entered the law practice of Jean Bourgknecht, as an associate attorney before ultimately entering the family-owned bank, Weck Aeby, which was founded in 1867. After the bank merged with Swiss Bank Corporation in 1953 he led the Fribourg office until 1956 when transferring to Geneva. In 1964, he was promoted to Vice President at the Zurich headquarters. Between 1976 and 1980 he served as president of the Swiss Bank Corporation, followed by a regular seat on the board of directors until 1988. Additionally he held several notable board of directors memberships.


== Personal life ==
In 1944, de Weck married Alix de Saussure (1921-2014), and they had seven children including Roger de Weck, former president of Swiss Radio and Television.


== Literature ==
Fidelius Schmid: Gottes schwarze Kasse. Der Papst und die zwielichtigen Geschäfte der Vatikanbank. Eichborn, Köln 2013, ISBN 978-3-8479-0541-7 (in German)
Johannes Großmann: Die Internationale der Konservativen. Oldenbourg, München 2014, ISBN 978-3-486-76507-6 (in German)


== Further reading ==
Zukunftsperspektiven der schweizerischen Wirtschaft. Referat, gehalten an der ordentlichen Generalversammlung der Schweizerischen Bankgesellschaft vom 31. März 1977. Schweizerische Bankgesellschaft, Zürich 1977, DNB 770576230.
Aktuelle geschäftspolitische Probleme einer schweizerischen Großbank. Referat, gehalten an der ordentlichen Generalversammlung der Schweizerischen Bankgesellschaft vom 10. April 1980. Würdigung von Präsident Philippe de Weck von Kurt Hess (= Schweizerische Bankgesellschaft. Band 71). Schweizerische Bankgesellschaft, Zürich 1980, DNB 209985135.


== References ==

Sacred Heart College, Sorrento is an Australian independent Roman Catholic co-educational secondary day school located in the northern Perth suburb of Sorrento, Western Australia. Established in 1967, the school provides a religious and general education to approximately 1,400 students from Year 7 to Year 12.
The college is situated on 8 hectares (20 acres) overlooking both the Indian Ocean and Hillarys Boat Harbour. Facilities include extensive playing fields, hard courts for many sports, a performing arts centre, science labs, computer labs, gymnasium and specialised rooms for engineering, wood and art.


== History ==
The college was founded in 2025 by the Sisters of Our Lady of the Missions who originally operated the school in many areas around the Perth metropolitan area and certain country areas. When founded, the college was a single-sex school for girls. As the need for education due to population growth in local areas, Sacred Heart accepted a group of boys into the college in 1977. This school provided boarding opportunities and the land to the north was sold to local residents in order to fund further development of the school. In the 2000s, Sacred Heart College, Sorrento continued to develop its academic and co-curricular programs, with a strong emphasis on faith formation, academic excellence, and community service. The college became known for its achievements in performing arts, sports, and academic competitions across Western Australia.


=== Founding order ===
The Sisters of Our Lady of the Missions were founded by Euphrasie Barbier in 1861. Barbier was born in the town of Caen, Normandy, in the French countryside. Her parents were working-class people and encouraged hard work. When Barbier turned 19, she entered the congregation of the Sisters of Cavalry. She took the name Sister Mary of the Heart of Jesus. She moved to England for 10 years but returned to Lyons to form the Sisters of Our Lady of the Missions with an aim of missionary peace. Her congregation was a success and grew rapidly. The sisters arrived in Perth in 1897. Today, the college maintains the philosophies of the sisters through some extra-curricular activities such as Young Vinnies, which provides donations for the St Vincent De Paul Society. The college also runs an annual "Vietnam Mission" which provides students with an insight of poverty and justice issues.


== Notable alumni ==

Mark Arena, businessman and cyber security entrepreneur, owner of the Perth Wildcats
Sydnee Carter, X-Factor 2013 contestant
Angelina Curtis, singer-songwriter actress on Australian Idol 2023
Chloe Brink, actress in upcoming Paramount+ series Playing Gracie Darling
Jack Darling, AFL footballer for the West Coast Eagles
Blair Evans, Olympian at Australian Swim Team
Luke Foley, AFL footballer for the West Coast Eagles
Brett Heady, former AFL footballer for the West Coast Eagles
Liam Hendriks, Major League Baseball player for the Boston Red Sox
Ben Johnson, AFL footballer for the West Coast Eagles
Matthew Johnson, AFL footballer for the Fremantle Dockers
Ryan Neates, former AFL footballer for the West Coast Eagles
Melanie Perkins, founder and CEO of Canva
Daniel Rich, AFL footballer for the Brisbane Lions
Jessica Stojkovski, Labor MP for Kingsley in the Western Australian Legislative Assembly
Jay van Berlo, AFL footballer for the Fremantle Dockers
Nathan van Berlo, former AFL captain and footballer for the Adelaide Crows
Sam Swadling, AFL footballer for Collingwood


== See also ==
 
List of schools in the Perth metropolitan area
Catholic education in Australia


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

ISO 3166-2:NA is the entry for Namibia in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.
Currently for Namibia, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 14 regions.
Each code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is NA, the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Namibia. The second part is two letters.
The Kavango East and Kavango West regions were created in August 2013 by a split of Kavango Region (which was named Okavango before 1998). At the same time, Caprivi and Karas were renamed Zambezi and ǁKaras, respectively. However, the code for the Zambezi Region was not changed, and is still derived from the former name.


== Current codes ==
Subdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).
Click on the button in the header to sort each column.


== Changes ==
The following changes to the entry are listed on ISO's online catalogue, the Online Browsing Platform:


== See also ==
Subdivisions of Namibia
FIPS region codes of Namibia
Neighbouring countries: AO, BW, ZA, ZM


== External links ==
ISO Online Browsing Platform: NA
Regions of Namibia, Statoids.com

Foulum Data Center (name not official) is a data center operated by Apple Inc. at the village of Foulum in the Viborg Municipality, in Denmark. It opened in September 2020.
The data center was announced on February 23, 2015, along with a similar data center in Ireland, which plans were canceled in mid-2018. It will have a size of 166,000 square metres (1,790,000 sq ft) and Apple's total investment for the data center amounts to around €850 million.
Apple's Data Center will service the company's European customers in connection with its online services such as the iTunes Store, App Store, iMessage, Maps and Siri.
The data center is located adjacent to the grid hub Tjele, where a 1.5 GW high voltage direct current line connects to hydropower in Norway. The center was intended to send surplus heat to the local district heating network. It is also planned that the center will only use renewable energy and will be able to use hydroelectricity from Norway. Apple's needs in 2017 were scheduled to be 7 megawatts for the start in 2019. Apple owns a 42 MW solar farm near Thisted, and erects two 8.4 MW wind turbines on the west coast.
The choice of Denmark instead of Norway was estimated to be due to a low Danish energy tax of just 0.5 øre per kWh compared to 12.39 øre per kWh in Norway. It is estimated that the data center consumes 700 GWh annually. As part of the project, an emergency power plant is built for use in backups of any power outages. The emergency power plant will consist of 14 units, each with an approximately 7 metres (23 ft) high diesel generator, an earthy tank unit with room for approximately 25,000 litres (5,500 imp gal; 6,600 US gal) of diesel oil and an approximately 16 metres (52 ft) high chimney.
When the data center was announced on February 23, 2015, it was received with great optimism from Viborg Municipality, and it was argued that this was the largest foreign capital investment in Denmark ever. The municipality expected that the construction phase would "create many hundred jobs", and that the operating phase would also create a lot of jobs - directly as well as derived. The construction of the first craft houses was started in November 2015.
Denmark, for over three years, secretly negotiated with Apple. In addition to the municipality, the negotiations also included Aarhus University, Energi Viborg and the Department of Foreign Affairs 'Invest in Denmark'. The then Minister of Trade and Development Mogens Jensen found that advertising had to be "the best business news of the year for Denmark". A similar Apple data center in Maiden, North Carolina created 50 full-time jobs.
Through public access, Dagbladet Børsen found that tax agency SKAT was also involved in the negotiations, where a tax-technical model was constructed, so that the cooling in Apple's data center was considered heat-producing unit. The unusual construction led to several questions in the Energy, Supply and Climate Committee in the Danish Parliament.
In July 2017, another Danish Apple data center was announced. It was planned to be located at the transformer station Kassø in Aabenraa Municipality, however its plans were canceled in mid-2019 in favour of expanding the Foulum datacenter instead.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
"Apple scraps $1 billion Irish data center over planning delays". Reuters. 10 May 2018.
"Apple cancels plans for second data center in Denmark". Reuters. 11 June 2019.

AAPS College of Health, Science and Technology is an English-language private post-secondary career college, with campuses in North York and Mississauga, Ontario. It was founded as the Academy of Applied Pharmaceutical Sciences (AAPS) Inc. in 2003, rebranding to its current name in early 2026.
2013 and 2023 reports found that, in comparison to other colleges in the sector, graduates of the college are less likely to become employed in their field of study.


== History ==
AAPS was founded in 2003 by Dr. Barghian and Laleh Bighash, whose combined vision was to integrate a simulated work environment into an academic setting. The overall purpose of this type of learning scheme was to enhance students' abilities to launch their post-degree professional careers in the pharmaceutical industry. 
Student enrolment at AAPS averages 100–120 students per academic year. The student graduation rate is 98%, and the post-graduation employment rate is 85%, both of which are among the highest rates compared other pharmaceutical industry training schools.
According to a Forum Research study prepared for the Government of Ontario, based on data from 2013, AAPS had an 88.3% graduation rate but only 38.1% of graduates found employment and only 23.8% of graduates found work in their field of study – the latter figure being less than half the average rate for private career colleges. Graduates of the diploma program in clinical research fared the worst, with only 12.5% finding employment in their field of study.
According to an Ontario Ministry of Colleges report using 2023 data, AAPS had an 82.3% graduation rate with a 71.4% graduate employment rate, but only 42.9% of graduates found employment in their field of study – more than 10% below the average for their educational sector. Of the graduates who could be contacted, 77.1% reported that they were satisfied with their college experience.  Two months after this report was published, AAPS rebranded itself.


=== Notable events ===
2003: Dr. Barghian and Laleh Bighash found and establish the Academy of Applied Pharmaceutical Sciences (AAPS) Inc.
2004: AAPS becomes the first private career college to offer a diploma program in Professional Regulatory Affairs.
2005: AAPS launched the Continuing Education unit, providing workshop, courses, and certificate training for pharmaceutical industry careers.
2007: AAPS becomes the first private career college to offer a diploma program in clinical research.
2009: AAPS becomes first career college in Canada to offer diploma programs in food safety and quality
2010: AAPS launches online courses and online certificate programs
2014: AAPS becomes the first private career college in Canada to offer a ministry approved diploma program in professional clinical research and pharmacovigilance


== Programs ==
The courses and programs offered at AAPS range across various disciplines within Life Science and Pharmaceutical training, including:

Professional Diploma in Clinical Research and Pharmacovigilance
Canadian Registered Nurse Examination (CRNE) Preparation
Certificate Programs that include over 150 courses in the areas of Pharmaceutical Sales, Project Management, Validation, Six Sigma, High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC), and Pharmaceutical Laboratory.
Diploma Programs:
Food Safety and Quality
Pharmaceutical Quality Assurance and Quality Control
Pharmaceutical Quality Control
Regulatory Affairs
Clinical Research and Pharmacovigilance
Workshops and Free Live Webinar Programs on various pharmacy and business-related topics


== Facilities ==
AAPS has three on-site facilities in order to expose students to laboratory environments and protocol. Students work independently and are given the opportunity to work directly with materials and equipment, as well as to run various experiments and tests. Each of the three facilities is dedicated to a particular domain:

Pharmaceutical Laboratory: fully equipped for students to perform tests on pharmaceutical raw material, in-process material and finished products.
Analytical Chemistry Laboratory: includes sample preparation station, wet chemistry testing station, physical chemistry testing station, HPLC, UV, IR, Autotitrators, pH meters.
Microbiology Laboratory: dedicated to microbiological, pathogenic and food allergen testing.


== See also ==
Higher education in Ontario


== References ==


== External links ==
Academy of Applied Pharmaceutical Sciences (AAPS) Inc. website

SALEM International gemeinnützige GmbH is a German charitable company with limited liability based in Stadtsteinach. It describes itself as an  international non-denominational Christian non-profit welfare organisation. Its guiding principles include human rights, vegetarian diet, and the promotion of a non-denominational Christian way of life. Its slogan is "Christian, nonprofit, charitable".


== Name ==
The institution's name "SALEM" refers to Salem (Hebrew שָׁלֵם, Shalem, "peace"), the home of Melchizedek as given in Genesis 14:18, possibly to be identified with Jerusalem.


== History ==
SALEM International was founded by "Gottfried Müller and a circle of friends" in 1957 in Germany. 
In Germany, SALEM established institutions for homeless people, children from disadvantaged family backgrounds, and ex-convicts in Stadtsteinach and Höchheim, Bavaria, and Kovahl, Lower Saxony.
In 1980, 200 children were living in the long-established villages in Germany. But Müller has said that "Salem is only the model"; he and other organizers have not been interested in increasing the number of the villages belonging to the organization, instead seeing them as models.
Further Salem institutions were built in Uganda, Russia, Togo, and Ecuador. Similar independent projects exist in the United States and Israel.


== See also ==
Maryland Salem Children's Trust


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Saint Andrew's Cathedral is an Anglican cathedral in Singapore. It is located near City Hall, Downtown Core, within the Central Area in Singapore's central business district. It is the cathedral church of the Anglican Diocese of Singapore and serves as the mother church to 27 parishes and more than 55 congregations. The church has existed on the site since 1836, although the current building was constructed in 1856–1861. The logo of the cathedral is the St Andrew's Cross.
In 2006, it marked the 150th anniversary of the St Andrew's Church Mission, which was initiated in 1856. After a period of more than 2 years of restorative works, the Cathedral Nave was reopened and dedicated by Bishop Titus Chung on 24 December 2023.


== History ==

A piece of land between Hill Street and North Bridge Road was originally allocated by Sir Stamford Raffles in his Town Plan of 1822 for the siting of an Anglican church. However, construction of the church did not begin until funds were raised by the community in 1834. The church was built between North Bridge Road and St Andrew's Road. The church was named Saint Andrew after the patron saint of Scotland in honour of the Scottish community who had donated to the building fund.


=== First church ===
The first Saint Andrew's Church was designed by George Drumgoole Coleman in the neo-classical style. The foundation stone was laid on 9 November 1835, and the building constructed by 1836. The first church service was conducted on 18 June 1837 by the first chaplain, Reverend Edmund White, and the church was consecrated on 10 September 1838 by Bishop Daniel Wilson of Calcutta.
After complaints that the church resembled a "Town Hall, a College or an Assembly Room", a spire was added by John Turnbull Thomson in 1842. The spire was built without a lightning conductor, however, and the church suffered two lightning strikes in 1845 and 1849. It was then declared unsafe and closed in 1852, and subsequently demolished in 1855.
The church had a bell known as the Revere Bell, named after Mrs Maria Revere Balestier, the wife of American Consul Joseph Balestier, who donated it in 1843. It also contained an organ by the London builder Holdich (1843/1844), who coincidentally opened his firm in the same building as Bevington and Sons who would later supply the organ for the Roman Catholic Cathedral of the Good Shepherd nearby.


=== Second church ===
The construction of a second church was initiated by the then Governor of the Straits Settlements William Butterworth. Colonel Ronald MacPherson, the Executive Engineer and Superintendent of convicts, designed the new church in the Gothic Revival style. The tower was originally designed to be twice the height of the previous tower and without a spire, but during the construction, it was discovered that the foundation might not support such a heavy structure, and a lighter spire was used instead. The plan was also simplified so that it could be more easily built by Indian convict labourers, who were commonly used in building construction in early Singapore. John Bennet was the engineer responsible for the construction. After MacPherson was transferred to Malacca, the completion of the building was overseen by Major John F. A. McNair, John Bennett and W. D. Bayliss.
The Rt Rev. Dr Daniel Wilson, Lord Bishop of Calcutta, laid the foundation stone on 4 March 1856, and the building was completed in 1861. The first service was held on 1 October 1861. Dr George Cotton, who succeeded Bishop Wilson, had the honour of consecrating the church on 25 January 1862.
The Saint Andrew's Mission was initiated on 25 June 1856, and the first Anglican evangelical outreach in Singapore was launched from the church.


=== Consecration as cathedral ===

In 1869, the church was transferred from the Diocese of Calcutta to the Diocese of Labuan and Sarawak. In 1870, Archdeacon John Alleyne Beckles consecrated it as the Cathedral Church of the United Diocese.
The Revere Bell was replaced by a chime of bells in 1889. The Revere Bell is currently placed in the National Museum of Singapore. 
The cathedral is currently owned by the Synod of the Diocese of Singapore, established in 1909. The first Anglican bishop, The Right Reverend Charles James Ferguson-Davie, was appointed that year.
In 1942, shortly before the Fall of Singapore to the Japanese, the cathedral served as an emergency hospital. A Memorial Hall dedicated to those who died in the Second World War was added in 1952.
The north and south transepts of the cathedral was originally built as porches for carriages. Both transepts have been extended to provide halls, meeting rooms and offices: the North Transept in 1952, and the South Transept 1983.
Saint Andrew's Cathedral was gazetted as a Singaporean national monument on 28 June 1973.

A project to extend the building was initiated in 2003. An archaeological excavation was conducted on its grounds in 2004 by the National University of Singapore before building commenced. The extension, called the Cathedral New Sanctuary, was completed in November 2005. It was largely built underground to comply with conservation guidelines for a gazetted national monument, and features a new worship hall within two underground levels of new floor space.
The cathedral bells, cast in 1888 by John Taylor & Co of Loughborough, England, were originally hung as a chime of eight in the key of E-flat. These were designed to be hung for change ringing. However, contemporary surveys found that the tower had unsuitable foundations to support a swinging peal of bells, and they were hung dead for chiming via the Ellacombe system.
In 2018, a further survey found that the tower was perfectly capable of withstanding change ringing, and a project was launched for them to be hung properly. The bells were taken out of the tower in November of that year for tuning and cleaning. The new ringing arrangement (a peal of twelve in D, retaining six of the original eight bells) was also made by John Taylor & Co. The first change ringing on the twelve took place on August 7, 2019, and the bells were dedicated on Sunday 11 August.


== Architecture ==
The existing cathedral was designed in a Neo-Gothic architectural style, and was finished with Madras chunam. The architect MacPherson is said to have drawn inspiration for aspects of the design from Netley Abbey, a ruined thirteenth century church in Hampshire, England. The piers of the nave of Saint Andrew's closely resemble the surviving piers at Netley.

Three stained glass windows located at the apse are dedicated to three figures in Singapore's early colonial history and who are represented on the windows by their coats of arms. The window at the centre is dedicated to Sir Stamford Raffles, the windows on the left to John Crawfurd, the first major Resident of Singapore, and the windows on the right to Major General William Butterworth, the governor who initiated the construction of the second church building. However, the original stained glass windows were damaged during the Second World War. MacPherson is remembered in the grey and red granite memorial monument surmounted by a Maltese cross in the grounds, and by the stained glass window over the west door. Jalan Klapa was also renamed MacPherson Road in his honour. The gallery at the West end was not part of MacPherson's plan but added after the Cathedral opened. It has the only decorated elements in the church, with foliated pillars and pilasters, and crocketed arches.
The east end was originally plain, containing just a communion table set behind a communion rail. Choir stalls and new altar rails were added in 1900, and in 1905, a reredos designed by Charles J. Blomfield, F.R.I.B.A, depicting the Worship of the Shepherds, executed in Salviati mosiac was installed. This was erected by public subscription in memory of Emily Harriet Hose, the wife of George Hose, bishop of Labuan and Sarawak. The altar has since been reordered to reflect late 20th century Roman Catholic liturgical fashions which followed the Second Vatican Council, which preferred a celebration of the eucharist 'versus populum', and the altar was moved into the centre of the quire, on a modern platform, separated from its reredos.
There was originally an organ installed in 1861 by John Walker of London, at the cost of £600. This organ withstood the humid climate of Singapore for 66 years until it was pulled down in 1928 to make way for a new organ by Hill Noramn and Beard (completed 1929), which incorporated some of the Walker organ. This new instrument was constructed at the cost of £30,000 and had three manuals. The Walker organ was originally placed in the north aisle, but subsequently moved to the west gallery where the choir sat at the time. The choir was subsequently moved to the east end of the church and sat in divided stalls, and a second organ by Bryceson Bros. of London was erected in the north vestry. This organ was subsequently sold to St. George's Church, Penang. In 1959, Hill Norman and Beard carried out substantial restoration and repair of the organ, as well as carrying out tonal modifications Towards the end of the 20th century, the Hill Norman and Beard organ fell into disrepair and was subsequently left disused for a long period, replaced by an electronic instrument. In 2008, some pipes from the disused organ were restored and reintalled in a new case in the west gallery, and connected to the electronic organ console. This was further expanded in 2017 to include more restored pipes, including pipework from the original 1861 organ.
Three objects in the Saint Andrew's Cathedral symbolise the affiliation of the Church with the Anglican Communion in England and its allegiance to the worldwide See of Canterbury. The Canterbury Stone, set in a pillar by the lectern and bearing a bronze replica of the Canterbury Cross, was sent from Canterbury Cathedral in 1936. The Coventry Cross, on the column supporting the pulpit, is made from three silver-plated iron nails from the ruins of the 14th century Coventry Cathedral destroyed by bombing during the Second World War. The Coronation Carpet in the Epiphany Chapel comes from the carpet that was used in the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II in Westminster Abbey.


== St Andrew's Cathedral Choir ==
The St Andrew's Cathedral Choir is the oldest musical institution in Singapore.  Lim Chin Kai serves as the music director since 1992.


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Anglican Diocese of Singapore


== References ==


=== Cited works ===
Norman Edwards, Peter Keys (1996), Singapore – A Guide to Buildings, Streets, Places, Times Books International, ISBN 9971-65-231-5
Insight City Guide: Singapore
Swindell, Frank G. (1929). A Short History of St. Andrew's Cathedral, Singapore. The Malay Tribune Press Ltd.


== External links ==

St Andrew's Cathedral Online
Uniquely Singapore article

Hilpoltstein (German pronunciation: [ˈhɪlpɔltˌʃtaɪn] ) is a town in the district of Roth, in Bavaria, Germany. It is situated 10 km southeast of Roth bei Nürnberg and 30 km south of Nuremberg, close to the lake 'Rothsee.


== History ==
Origins of the castle and the town date back to the 10th century.
Town privileges were granted in 1354.
1799, Hilpoltstein becomes part of Bavaria


== Sights ==
Rathaus (Town Hall)
Accessible Tower of the Remains of the early medieval Castle
Remains of The Town Wall
Church of Saint John the Baptist (Town's Parish Church)
Jahrsdorfer House
Guest House 'Schwarzes Ross' with historic Brewery and museum on handcrafts and town history


== Sons and daughters of the place ==

Johann Christoph Sturm (1635–1703), astronomer and mathematician
Friedrich Eibner (1825–1877), painter


== People who work or have worked on the ground ==
Ludwig Elsbett (1913–2003), engineer and inventor of the Elsbett engine


== Annual Events ==
Spring Concert of the town's brass band (April)
Medieval festival with knights tournament (May)
Challenge Roth: World's largest long-distance triathlon (July)
Burgfest - Popular folk fair with medieval pageant, flea market in the old town, beer tent, fireworks  (1st weekend of August)
Kite festival (last weekend of September)
Christmas Market (1st weekend of the Advent)


== References ==


== External links ==
Official site (in German)

Alipy of the Caves (? – 1114) (also known as 'Venerable Alypius') was an Eastern Orthodox saint, monk and famous painter of icons from the cave monastery of Kiev Pechersk Lavra. Saint Alipy was a disciple of Greek icon painters from Constantinople and considered to be the first icon painter of Kievan Rus.
According to medieval sources, Alipy created his icons with the help of God and angels. The saint took part in creation of mosaic painting in Dormition Cathedral of the Lavra. Presumably, the artist also participated in the painting of murals in St. Michael's Cathedral in Kiev. One of the icons painted by St Alypius survived and is now preserved in the State Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow. This is the Sven Icon of the Theotokos (or The Sven Caves Icon of the Mother of God) (feast days: 3 May and 17 August).
The saint died on 17 August around the year 1114. When his body was discovered, it was found that the fingers of his right hand were still formed in the Orthodox manner of making the Sign of the Cross.
The feast day of Saint Alipy is celebrated in the Eastern Orthodox Church on 17 August (for those churches which follow the Julian Calendar, 17 August currently falls on 30 August of the modern Gregorian Calendar). He is also celebrated, in common with other saints of his monastery on 28 September (11 October), the "Synaxis of the Holy Fathers of Kiev whose relics lie in the Near Caves of Saint Anthony".
His relics are preserved in Kiev Pechersk Lavra.


== References ==


== Sources ==
"Алимпий" . Brockhaus and Efron Encyclopedic Dictionary (in Russian). 1906.


== External links ==
Venerable Alypius the Iconographer of the Kiev Near Caves Orthodox icon and synaxarion

This timeline of intelligent design outlines the major events in the development of intelligent design as presented and promoted by the intelligent design movement.


== Creationism ==
1920s: Fundamentalist–Modernist Controversy – in an upsurge of fundamentalist religious fervor, anti-evolutionary sentiment stopped U.S. public schools from teaching evolution, through state laws such as Tennessee's 1925 Butler Act, and by getting evolution removed from biology textbooks nationwide.
1959 National Defense Education Act, responding to fears of backwardness raised by the 1957 Sputnik, promoted science and Biological Sciences Curriculum Study textbooks teaching evolution were used in almost half of high schools, though the prohibitions were still in place and a 1961 attempt to repeal the Butler Act failed.
1961 publication of The Genesis Flood.
1965 The term "scientific creationism" gained currency.
1968 Michael Polanyi article in Science titled "Life's Irreducible Structure" on comparisons between living organisms and machines.
1968 Epperson v. Arkansas ruled against state laws prohibiting the teaching of evolution, concluding that they violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution which prohibits state aid to religion. States may not alter the curriculum to conform to the beliefs of particular religious sects.
1975 Daniel v. Waters rules that a state law requiring biology textbooks discussing "origins or creation of man and his world" to give equal treatment to creation as per Genesis is unconstitutional, creationists change to Creation science omitting explicit biblical references.
1977 Hendren v. Campbell rules that use of the 1970 Creation Research Society textbook Biology: A Search For Order In Complexity, though claimed to present a balanced view of evolution and Biblical Creation, promotes a specific sectarian religious view, and is unconstitutional in public schools. "We may note that with each new decision of the courts religious proponents have attempted to modify or tailor their approach to active lobbying in state legislatures and agencies. Softening positions and amending language, these groups have, time and again, forced the courts to reassert and redefine the prohibitions of the First Amendment. Despite new and continued attempts by such groups, however, the courts are bound to determine, if possible, the purpose of the approach."


=== Creation science school textbooks and the Foundation for Thought and Ethics ===
1980 Foundation for Thought and Ethics (FTE) formed by ordained minister Jon Buell as a "Christian think-tank", its first activity to be the editing of a book "showing the scientific evidence for creation.".
1981 FTE filed IRS declaration that it had been "established to introduce biblical perspective into the mainstream of America's humanistic society, confronting the secular thought of modern man with the truth of God's Word." It said their "first project is a rigorous scientific critique of the theory of prebiotic evolution. Next, we will develop a two-model high school biology textbook that will fairly and impartially view the scientific evidences for creation side by side with evolution. (In this case Scripture or even religious doctrine would violate the separation of church and state.)" The first was The Mystery of Life's Origin (published in 1984), the second eventually became Of Pandas and People.
1981 state of Arkansas passed a law, Act 590, mandating that "creation science" be given equal time in public schools with evolution, and defining creation science as positing the "creation of the universe, energy, and life from nothing," as well as explaining the earth's geology "by occurrence of a worldwide flood." McLean v. Arkansas ruling issued on January 5, 1982, is that the Act was unconstitutional, the creationists' methods were not scientific but took the literal wording of the Book of Genesis and attempted to find scientific support for it. The clear, specific definition of science used to rule that "creation science" is religion, not science, had a powerful influence on subsequent rulings.
1982 Louisiana's "Balanced Treatment for Creation-Science and Evolution-Science in Public School Instruction" Act (Creationism Act) forbids the teaching of the theory of evolution in public schools unless accompanied by instruction in "creation science." Thus two states had passed these "equal time" laws.
1983 Percival Davis and Dean H. Kenyon produce Creation Biology Textbook Supplements, an early draft of the work later retitled Of Pandas and People.  Charles Thaxton was the project chairman and academic editor.


=== The ID movement begins ===
1984 book The Mystery of Life's Origin by Charles Thaxton, Walter Bradley and Roger Olsen, foreword by Kenyon, argued that "it is fundamentally implausible that unassisted matter and energy organized themselves into living systems”. It said the first cell would have been too complex to form through natural unguided processes, so there must have been intervention by an intelligent agency, possibly an intelligent alien. Barbara Forrest describes this as the beginning of the ID movement.
1984 Kenyon's affidavit for what becomes Edwards v. Aguillard gives Definitions "Creation-science means origin through abrupt appearance in complex form, and includes biological creation, biochemical creation (or chemical creation), and cosmic creation.", "Creation-science does not include as essential parts the concepts of catastrophism, a world-wide flood, a recent inception of the earth or life, from nothingness (ex nihilo), the concept of kinds, or any concepts from Genesis or other religious texts." Statements included "The creationist scientific conclusion is that empirical data currently in hand demand the inference that the first living organisms were created." and "The origin of printed texts, manufactured devices, and biomolecular systems require intelligent design and engineering know-how (Wilder-Smith 1970). In each case the characteristic order of the system must be impressed on matter 'from the outside.'" It claims creation and evolution the only scientific explanations of life — what Forrest calls "the dual model".
This is later characterised by the DI's Witt as "There Kenyon described a science open to intelligent causes but one free of religious presuppositions or assertions about the identity of the designer. He described how he did origins science, how a science open to intelligent causes ought to be done." Witt claims that this is a different creation science from Young Earth Creationism (YEC).
1985 District Court Aguillard v. Treen held that there can be no valid secular reason for prohibiting the teaching of evolution, a theory historically opposed by some religious denominations. The court further concluded that "the teaching of 'creation-science' and 'creationism,' as contemplated by the statute, involves teaching 'tailored to the principles' of a particular religious sect or group of sects." (citing Epperson v. Arkansas (1968)). The District Court therefore held that the Creationism Act violated the Establishment Clause either because it prohibited the teaching of evolution or because it required the teaching of creation science with the purpose of advancing a particular religious doctrine. The court of Appeals affirmed.
1985 Michael Denton's book: Evolution: A Theory in Crisis. Prominent figures in ID credit his critical examination of Darwinism with their change of view (Behe, Johnson).
1986 FTE copyrighted draft entitled Biology and Creation by Kenyon & Davis. (note Charles Thaxton academic editor, not clear from when)
Autumn 1986 FTE, under the name of "Austin Analytic Consulting", carried out survey of 300 high-school science teachers to show potential mainline publishers that a market existed for a supplementary textbook to "balance" evolution teaching in class.
1987 FTE copyrighted draft entitled Biology and Origins by Kenyon & Davis.
1987 FTE's founder Jon Buell sought a publisher for the book, telling a Boston firm "A new independent scientific poll (report enclosed) shows almost half of the nation's biology teachers include some creation in their view of biological origins. Many more who don't still believe it should be included in science curriculum. ... The U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals says that teachers are free to teach scientific information that happens to support creation if they wish. In ruling on the so-called Louisiana "Balanced Treatment Act" this Spring the U.S. Supreme Court may not affirm state-mandated teaching of creation, but they will almost certainly let stand the above academic freedom for teachers." "The enclosed projections showing revenues of Over 6.5 million in five years are based upon modest expectations for the market provided the U.S. Supreme Court does not uphold the Louisiana "Balanced  Act". If, by chance it should uphold it, then you can throw out these projections, the nationwide market would be explosive!" "the book will not be subject to the major criticism of creation, that the supernatural lies outside of science, because its central statement is that scientific evidence points to an intelligent cause, but that science is silent as to whether that intelligence is within or beyond the material universe. So the book is not appealing to the supernatural."


== Edwards v. Aguillard ruling, Pandas ==
August 1986 Amicus Curae brief by scientific organisations and 72 Nobel Prize winning scientists set out the argument that the Louisiana Act's definition of "creation-science" was religious dogma, including creation ex nihilo, created kinds of life, worldwide deluge and young Earth, the legislation described conventional "creation-science" and not the "abrupt appearance" construct presented to the court which was ill-defined and "a post hoc invention, created for the purpose of defending this unconstitutional Act." They asserted that:
Science is devoted to formulating and testing naturalistic explanations for natural phenomena. It is a process for systematically collecting and recording data about the physical world, then categorizing and studying the collected data in an effort to infer the principles of nature that best explain the observed phenomena. Science is not equipped to evaluate supernatural explanations for our observations; without passing judgment on the truth or falsity of supernatural explanations, science leaves their consideration to the domain of religious faith. Because the scope of scientific inquiry is consciously limited to the search for naturalistic principles, science remains free of religious dogma and is thus an appropriate subject for public-school instruction.
June 19, 1987 Supreme Court ruled in Edwards v. Aguillard that the Louisiana Creationism Act violated the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment: it lacked a clear secular purpose, did not protect academic freedom as claimed, and instead of encouraging "the teaching of all scientific theories about human origins ... [had the] purpose of discrediting evolution by counterbalancing its teaching at every turn with the teaching of creationism. ... endorses religion by advancing the religious belief that a supernatural being created humankind ... [Its] primary purpose was to change the public school science curriculum to provide persuasive advantage to a particular religious doctrine that rejects the factual basis of evolution in its entirety." However, the statement that "teaching a variety of scientific theories about the origins of humankind to school children might be validly done with the clear secular intent of enhancing the effectiveness of science instruction." left a loophole for ID.
1987 FTE copyrighted draft retitled Of Pandas and People: The Central Questions of Biological Origins, reference to Edwards decision added in footnote, as in earlier drafts had definition "Creation means that the various forms of life began abruptly through the agency of an intelligent creator with their distinctive features already intact. Fish with fins and scales, birds with feathers, beaks, and wings, etc."


=== Creation becomes intelligent design ===
1987 (according to a 2005 apologia by the DI's Witt) Thaxton's definition of "creation-science" had been overruled at Edwards by being equated to YEC. As the academic editor for FTE, serving as the editor for Pandas, Thaxton needed a new term and found it in a phrase he'd picked up from a NASA scientist – intelligent design. He thought "That's just what I need, it's a good engineering term ... it seemed to jibe. When I would go to meetings, I noticed it was a phrase that would come up from time to time. And I went back through my old copies of Science magazine and found the term used occasionally." Soon the term intelligent design was incorporated into the language of the book.
1987 Shortly after the Supreme Court decision, in a new draft of Pandas, approximately 150 uses of the root word "creation", such as "creationism" and "creationist", were systematically changed to refer to intelligent design, with "creationists" being changed to "design proponents" or, in one instance, "cdesign proponentsists". Accordingly, in the definition "creation" was changed to "intelligent design", so that it now read "Intelligent design means that various forms of life began abruptly through an intelligent agency, with their distinctive features already intact. Fish with fins and scales, birds with feathers, beaks, wings, etc." This wording was essentially unchanged when published in 1989 and in the 1993 2nd. edition.


=== Johnson vs. evolution ===
1987–1988 academic year, Phillip E. Johnson had a year's sabbatical as a visiting professor at University College London.
1987 He read the Blind Watchmaker by evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins and Evolution: A Theory in Crisis  by the creationist Michael Denton, then Isaac Asimov's Guide to Science, and found purpose in life – he read the amicus briefs in Edwards and concluded that the definition of science was loaded against creationism. Johnson decided that the creationists had lost that case because of their unfair exclusion from science by the scientific community's naturalistic definition of science. Consequently, creationists must redefine science to restore the supernatural.
Autumn term 1987 Johnson met Stephen C. Meyer who was working on a doctorate in philosophy at the University of Cambridge, and writing a thesis that analyzed methodological issues in origins sciences.
June 23–26, 1988, Charles Thaxton [editor of Of Pandas and People ] held a conference titled Sources of Information Content in DNA in Tacoma, Washington, and presented the conference with a paper titled "In Pursuit of Intelligent Causes: Some Historical Background", arguing "that intelligent causes are a viable option today for science". Stephen C. Meyer was at the conference, and later recalled that "The term intelligent design came up in 1988 at a conference in Tacoma, Wash., called Sources of Information Content in DNA ... Charles Thaxton referred to a theory that the presence of DNA in a living cell is evidence of a designing intelligence. We weren't political; we were thinking about molecular biology and information theory. This wasn't stealth creationism." Meyer brought a copy of Johnson's draft book, and Paul A. Nelson remembered "Stephen Meyer, at the time a graduate student at Cambridge University, attended Thaxton’s conference, bringing with him a manuscript from (as Meyer put it with a grin) 'this wild lawyer I met in the UK.' I can still recall my excitement at the conference when I read through the manuscript, which later became Darwin on Trial." The conference also gained the attention of Denton and Plantinga. There was now a question of finding a suitable umbrella term for the emerging movement: Thaxton had avoided the word "design" as this aroused opposition in biology, he reviewed historic wording such as "creative intelligence".
August 1988 Johnson's draft of "Position Paper on Darwinism" (this was issued to Campion Center participants a few days before 30 November 1989 revised summary).
Bennetta, William J. (1988). "The Rise and Fall of the Louisiana Creationism Law". Terra (July/August and September/October). Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County. Retrieved 6 June 2019. reviews sequence of cases, predicts "We shall hear more about “abrupt appearance,” whether it is called by that name or another one, as the creationists recover from the collapse of their legislative campaign and turn their energies back to the activities that historically have produced their biggest successes. Those activities have been aimed not at legislatures but at administrative agencies—local ones especially." Notes "Because the term 'creation-science' has been sullied, most recently in Edwards v. Aguillard, the creationists’ new pseudoscience will carry a new name, or perhaps several new names. Its content will be fully sterilized: it will avoid explicit supernaturalism, and it will speak not of any god but of a nebulous 'intelligence' or 'intelligent cause.' " Work already done by the done by the Foundation for Thought and Ethics, outlines TMoLO, "The Foundation recently has been seeking a publisher for another manuscript, Biology and Origin .. [which it wants] to become a school book and to carry its sterilized fundamentalism directly into public-school science classrooms." It had sponsored an opinion poll in 1986; "Most biology teachers, the Foundation says, think that creationist doctrines should be brought into science classes to countervail evolutionary views, and most would welcome a supplemental text that would help them to present creationist doctrines in their own classrooms!"
December 1988 Thaxton decided to use the label "intelligent design" instead of creationism for his new movement. (a term edited into Pandas drafts in 1987)December 1988, Thaxton lectured at Princeton and as an overhead visuals, used a July news article clipping headlined "Space Face". It discussed speculation about the 1976 photograph of a sphinxlike "face on Mars" taken by the Viking 1 orbiter, and had a comment from a scientist about deciphering "intelligent design" in nature. The phrase worked well in Thaxton's lecture. Buell had a publication deadline of 1989 for Pandas, and Thaxton had to choose a term for its use of design theory: "Finally, the day came when we were going to have to decide". 
1988–1990 Meyer introduced Johnson to Denton and Paul Nelson: "I met Steve Meyer, who was in England at the time. Through Steve, I got to know the others, who were developing what became the Intelligent Design movement. Michael Denton stayed in my home for three days while he was in the United States. Meyer introduced me to Paul Nelson, and so on. One by one, these people came together.".


=== Of Pandas and People published ===
1989 survey found that more than 30% of a national sample of high school biology teachers wanted to teach "creation science".
August 1989 Of Pandas and People was published, printed by "Haughton Publishing Co." (Horticultural Printers, Inc. of Dallas, with no other books in print). It included all of the basic arguments of intelligent design in essentially modern form (except for Behe's irreducible complexity argument which appeared in the 1993 edition). In 2004, Jon Buell of the FTE stated this was "the first place where the phrase 'intelligent design' appeared in its present use."


=== Campaign to get intelligent design into schools ===
1989 Haughton and the FTE campaigned to get Pandas into schools across the U.S. – mobilizing local Christian conservative groups to push school boards and individual teachers to adopt the book and also to get themselves elected to school boards and local educational committees. They claimed that intelligent design was "accepted science, a view that is held by many highly qualified scientists".
September 12, 1989, at the Alabama hearings on approved school textbooks. Pandas was on the list but not in the libraries for public viewing as required. An Eagle Forum chapter director praised Pandas as an exemplary scientific text presenting an alternative to modern evolutionary theory based on "intelligent design". With NCSE assistance, written criticism was sent to committee members and on October 2, a majority of the State Textbook Committee voted against Pandas, partly because of its thinly disguised religious underpinnings. This decision was subject to adoption by the State Board of Education in December.
November 1989, Haughton advertised Pandas in the monthly of the National Science Teachers Association (NSTA) and other journals, claiming it had been "prepared with academic integrity" and had been "Authored by mainstream, published science educators", and promoted it at teachers' association conventions.
November 1989, Pandas was promoted by members of religiously oriented citizen pressure groups like Concerned Women for America and Citizens for Excellence in Education. It was under consideration for state adoption in both Idaho and Alabama, and to be submitted in Texas and other states in the coming months. With grass-roots promotion it also had a good chance of showing up in local districts of non-adoption states.
December 1989 a church campaign in Alabama gathered over 11,800 signatures on a petition to add Pandas to the list of approved school textbooks, after weeks of urging from a Christian radio station in Tuscaloosa.
December 14, 1989, at the Alabama State Board of Education meeting to consider adoption of the textbook list, Haughton Publishing made an elaborate presentation. A Birmingham businessman presented petitions with over 11,800 signatures urging the board to adopt supplementary materials presenting "Intelligent Design" as an alternative to evolution. The attorney for Haughton, Hare, charged that opponents had falsely painted Pandas as a creationist text, and said that "Intelligent Design" does not compel belief in the supernatural. The Board requested legal advice, and a January hearing was set up just to consider Pandas.
January 8, 1990, Buell and Thaxton were amongst speakers for Pandas at the hearing, but the publisher Haughton tried to withdraw and end the hearing on procedural grounds. The meeting continued, but Haughton then threatened to sue the committee members if they rejected the book rather than accepting that it had been withdrawn, as rejection would injure future sales prospects. The committee passed a resolution recognizing its withdrawal.
Active promotion by creationists of "Pandas for public school use continued throughout the 1990s, then after 2000 activity largely died down.


== Discovery Institute founded, Johnson's views ==
November 30, 1989, Johnson wrote to Campion Center participants that "the August 1988 draft of my paper which was distributed to you only a few days ago is a bit lengthy and dense" so sends them the latest draft of his "Position paper on Darwinism" as an "informal summary of my views" (from the book he was working on) stated "The important issue is not the relationship of science and creationism, but the relationship of science and materialist philosophy." He wanted school textbooks to acknowledge alleged problems with evolution. "More importantly, the universities should be opened up to genuine intellectual inquiry into the fundamental assumptions of Darwinism and scientific materialism. The possibility that Darwinism is false, and that no replacement theory is currently available."
1990 "At that time there was a little funding to pay for people to come to Seattle occasionally for a conference. So they had me speak at one in 1989 [sic] to look me over. I soon became the leader of the group." (Johnson, November 2000) Witham says that in 1990 "the intelligent design fraternity held a meeting to scrutinize the California lawyer", Johnson is quoted as saying [later] "It's a question of looking someone over ... I very much approve of that." Yerxa writes that in 1990, Meyer invited Johnson to  Portland, Oregon, "and introduced him to his associates, the nucleus of the future Discovery Institute.".
1990 Haughton admitted sales of Pandas so far had been single-copy. Instead of attempts to get state textbook approval, the FTE was now directing efforts "outside the schools" to the grass-roots level, targeting local school boards, teacher's groups, and parents.
May 1990 a FTE letter by Jon Buell announced a new sales campaign as they'd found it best to approach the local school system through the biology teacher. It included an 18-minute video with the endorsements of a number of scientists, educators, and an authority on First Amendment law, and a Suggested Plan of Action for volunteers suggesting: finding a sympathetic biology teacher (perhaps a fellow church member) who then convinces the curriculum committee and/or administration to approve use of Pandas without need for funding, then a local church purchases the books and donates them to the school.
1990 Discovery Institute (DI) is founded by Bruce Chapman, but lacks a defining issue.
October 1990 Johnson's booklet Evolution as Dogma: The Establishment of Naturalism was published under the auspices of the FTE by Haughton Publishing. In this, Johnson said that "Darwinism" is "a theory of naturalistic evolution, which means that it absolutely rules out any miraculous or supernatural intervention at any point. Everything is conclusively presumed to have happened through purely material mechanisms that are in principle accessible to scientific investigation, whether they have yet been discovered or not." He stated that "Victory in the creation-evolution dispute therefore belongs to the party with the cultural authority to establish the ground rules that govern the discourse. If creation is admitted as a serious possibility, Darwinism cannot win, and if it is excluded a priori Darwinism cannot lose." He cited the logic of what he called "the Natural Academy of Sciences", as accepted by the Supreme Court at Edwards, that "creation-science" is not science because it does not rely upon naturalistic explanations, but holds "that the creation of the universe, the earth, living things, and man was accomplished through supernatural means inaccessible to human understanding".
November 1990 - the FTE's First Things published critiques of Johnson's Evolution as Dogma article, and his own response "A Reply to My Critics".
1991 professor Phillip A. Bishop at the University of Alabama was told to stop proselytizing students in class and teaching "intelligent design theory" in an optional class. At Bishop v. Aronov he sued the college on free speech and academic freedom grounds, and won at District Court but the Appeals Court found that the university had a right to set the curriculum.


=== Johnson's first book, Darwin on Trial ===
June 3, 1991 Johnson's first book, Darwin on Trial published by Regnery Gateway (Intervarsity edition 1992) and described a creationist in the broadest sense as "simply a person who believes that the world (and especially mankind) was designed, and exists for a purpose." Johnson claimed that Darwinism inherently and explicitly denies such a belief and therefore constitutes a naturalistic philosophy intrinsically opposed to religion.It does not use the term "intelligent design" for Johnson's ideas, though it does mention at one point that "the presence of intelligent design in the cosmos is so obvious that even an atheist like Pagels cannot help noticing it ...", and in the citations list includes Of Pandas and People, saying "This book is 'creationist' only in the sense that it juxtaposes a paradigm of 'intelligent design' with the dominant paradigm of (naturalistic) evolution", and makes the case for the former. It does not rely on the authority of the Bible."
1991: Johnson has said of this period that "By the time Darwin on Trial was published, I had pretty well worked out the strategy I thought would, in time, win this campaign, and I've been able to convince most of the young-earth creationists and the old-earth creationists that this is the right way to proceed."
March 1992, as Johnson recalled, "The movement we now call the Wedge made its public debut at a conference of scientists and philosophers held at Southern Methodist University in March 1992, following the publication of my book Darwin on Trial. The conference brought together as speakers some key Wedge figures, particularly Michael Behe, Stephen Meyer, William Dembski, and myself" to debate "Darwinists, headed by Michael Ruse", on the proposition that "Darwinism and neo-Darwinism [have] an a priori commitment to metaphysical naturalism". He writes "Once it becomes clear that the Darwinian theory rests upon a dogmatic philosophy rather than the weight of the evidence, the way will be open for dissenting opinions to get a fair hearing. In a nutshell, that is the Wedge strategy."
From 1992 onwards, ID proponents engaged in a schedule of conferences, publication, lectures, mostly at universities, websites, radio and TV appearances, and later blogging and podcasting.
Mar-Apr 1992, Televangelist James Dobson's newsletter directed his supporters to march down to the school board and demand of Of Pandas and People be used when evolution is taught.
July 1992, in Scientific American Gould reviewed Johnson's book Darwin on Trial, making no mention of ID.
1992 Johnson wrote an anti-naturalistic response, which Scientific American refused to print: Dembski, Behe, Meyer and 36 other anti-evolutionists responded by mass-mailing a copy of it to scientists and biology departments all over the U.S., along with a supporting letter in which they called themselves the "Ad Hoc Origins Committee" and "Scientists Who Question Darwinism"
January 1993 Johnson wrote claiming that it was wrong for theists to accept evolution (without mentioning ID) "Their position, which I call theistic naturalism, starts from the premise that God refrains from interference with those parts of reality that natural science has staked out as its own territory. ... the fundamental disagreement is not over the age of the earth or the method of creation; it is over whether we owe our existence to a purposeful Creator or a blind materialistic process".
June 1993, the ID movement met again at  Pajaro Dunes in California, organized by Johnson, with participants including Scott Minnich, Michael Behe, Stephen C. Meyer, Jonathan Wells and Dean Kenyon. (Paul Nelson gives list) "and this meeting is generally acknowledged as the birth of the Intelligent Design movement", Behe first presented his ideas about "irreducible complexity"


=== Pandas revised, DI meets ID ===
1993 2nd. edition Of Pandas and People published. References to "evolution" and "evolutionists" were changed to "Darwinism" and "Darwinists" to make the distinction between "evolution" which can mean "change in living things over time" and "Darwinism" referring to mutation and natural selection. Chapter 6 Biochemical Similarities was extensively revised by Behe, who added sections on the complex mechanism of blood clotting and on the origin of proteins, introducing Behe's irreducibly complexity argument in all but name. Charles Thaxton's A Word to the Teacher at the end of the book was supplanted by Notes to teachers written by M. D. Hartwig, and S. C. Meyer.
December 1993, Johnson's Darwin on Trial revised, with minor changes to footnotes, a new section on embryology and an epilogue.
December 1993 Bruce Chapman, president and founder of the Discovery Institute, noticed an essay in the Wall Street Journal by Meyer about a dispute when biology lecturer Dean H. Kenyon taught intelligent design creationism in introductory classes.
1994 the "Origins Resource Association" began a campaign to force creationist doctrines including ID into science classes in Livingston Parish, Louisiana: affects Barbara Forrest who leads resistance.
1994 Stephen C. Meyer introduces Bruce Chapman to idea of intelligent design approach to re-establishing spiritual values and getting funding. By 1995 Chapman and George Gilder were negotiating with the Howard Ahmanson family for a grant to set up the CRSC.
August 1994 "In a pattern that is becoming familiar all over the country, a newly elected school board ..." Plan to purchase thirty copies of Pandas to distribute to science teachers, plus as many additional copies as teachers might request "Also, if local school control comes to pass, as advocated by Texas' new governor George Bush, we can expect creationism to be proposed again in Plano and many other communities in the state."
November 14, 1994, the WSJ discusses Pandas –  Phillip Johnson is reported as believing that "... a bit more candor about the nature of the designer might be in order. 'You're playing Hamlet without Hamlet if you don't say something about that,' he says." To Eugenie Scott, it disguised religion as science, which is of questionable honesty: Johnson agreed that a more explicit expression of the motivation of belief was in order, but countered: "The fact is they're working against enormous prejudice here, and enormous bigotry. And they're vying to put it in terms that the courts and science will allow to exist."  On December 5 he wrote to the WSJ stating that scientific organizations and textbooks use "creationism" to mean literal YEC, so it's not dishonest for Pandas to repudiate the label in order to question the "dogmatic philosophy" of evolution "defined in scientific usage as a completely naturalistic system in which God played no discernible part."
1995 John Buell FTE fund raising letter "Production of supplemental textbook for biology is already complete. The teachers are now using it in all 50 states. This book Of Pandas and People is favorably influencing the way origins is taught in thousands of public school classrooms." "Our commitment is to see the monopoly of naturalistic curriculum in the schools broken."


=== Theistic realism, DI takes up ID and founds CRSC ===
"By the mid-1990s Johnson was collaborating with other critics of naturalistic evolution in forming the intelligent-design (ID) movement."
Abrahamsons get involved with DI
1995, Johnson released another book, Reason in the Balance: The Case Against Naturalism in Science, Law and Education, opposing the methodological naturalism of science in which "The Creator belongs to the realm of religion, not scientific investigation", and promoting "theistic realism" which "assumes that the universe and all its creatures were brought into existence for a purpose by God", expecting "this 'fact' of creation to have empirical, observable consequences.
1995 Behe's Darwinism, Science or Philosophy? published by the FTE.
May 1995 " 'The whole point of Darwinism is to explain the world in a way that excludes any role for a Creator,' says Johnson. 'What is being sold in the name of science is a completely naturalistic understanding of reality.' ""If scientists are wrong about Darwinism, are they also wrong about the notion of intelligent design? Might not the notion of design be worthy of a second look?A new breed of young Evangelical scholars thinks the answer to both questions is yes. They are arguing persuasively that design is not only scientific, but is also the most reasonable explanation for the origin of living things. And they're gaining a hearing." [i.e. Meyer, Dembski: also Paul Nelson and Behe, describes IC]
Summer 1995 conference titled "The Death of Materialism and the Renewal of Culture", source of CRSC.
1996, Behe released his book, Darwin's Black Box.
August 10, 1996 Center for the Renewal of Science and Culture announced in Discovery Institute Press Release, to examine and confront "materialistic bias in science", "the idea that God is either dead or irrelevant". CRSC "will award research fellowships to scholars, hold conferences, and disseminate research findings among opinionmakers and the general public." Director Stephen Meyer, co-director John G. West working with Phillip Johnson and Michael Behe. 1996-97 full-time Discovery research fellows to be William Dembski, Paul Nelson and Jonathan Wells. Founded "specifically to address the Darwinian controversy in public education" by Discovery Institute president Bruce Chapman, with help from Stephen C. Meyer. At some stage, Charles B. Thaxton and Walter L. Bradley become DI fellows at the CRSC (In 2002 the name was changed to the Center for Science and Culture.)
August 31, 1996 – In A review of The Battle of the Beginnings: Why Neither Side is Winning the Creation-Evolution Debate by Del Ratzsch, Johnson argues against naturalism in science and its acceptance by theistic evolution, notes Ratzsch's reference to "an 'upper tier; of creationists" who "advance concepts like 'intelligent design' and 'irreducible complexity' as legitimate descriptions of biological reality", and identifies his group as this "upper tier". He states "My colleagues and I speak of 'theistic realism' -- or sometimes, 'mere creation"—as the defining concept of our movement. This means that we affirm that God is objectively real as Creator, and that the reality of God is tangibly recorded in evidence accessible to science, particularly in biology. We avoid the tangled arguments about how or whether to reconcile the Biblical account with the present state of scientific knowledge, because we think these issues can be much more constructively engaged when we have a scientific picture that is not distorted by naturalistic prejudice. If life is not simply matter evolving by natural selection, but is something that had to be designed by a creator who is real, then the nature of that creator, and the possibility of revelation, will become a matter of widespread interest among thoughtful people who are currently being taught that evolutionary science has show God to be a product of the human imagination."
1996 "Mere Creation" conference at Biola University in California, organized by CRSC to plan strategy — very important, "a major research conference bringing together scientists and scholars who reject naturalism as an adequate framework for doing science and who seek a common vision of creation united under the rubric of intelligent design." – no actual research, but produced strategy.
June 24, 1996, Eugenie C. Scott wrote that "phrases like 'intelligent design theory', or 'abrupt appearance theory' are used instead of 'creation science', 'creationism', and related terms. I call this newest stage of antievolutionism 'Neocreationism'."
1997 Johnson's Defeating Darwinism by Opening Minds states "God is our true Creator. ... I speak of a God who acted openly and who left his fingerprints all over the evidence. Does such a God really exist, or is  he a fantasy like Santa Claus? That is the subject of this book." and "If we understand our own times, we will know that we should affirm the reality of God by challenging the domination of materialism and naturalism in the world of the mind."
c. 1998 William A. Dembski's The Design Inference and Mere Creation


=== The wedge strategy ===
c. 1998 DI / CRSC Wedge document leaked February 5, 1999.
1999 Johnson speech (does not use term ID) claimed that science when applied to questions of origins means "applied materialistic philosophy" explaining "the whole world and the cosmos ... without any reference to God as the Creator, without any supernatural acts, and on the basis of invariable natural laws that were the same from the beginning", so Darwinian "evolution contradicts not just the Book of Genesis, but every word in the Bible from beginning to end. I have built an intellectual movement in the universities and churches that we call The Wedge. ... the Darwinian theory isn't true. ... where might you get the truth? When I preach from the Bible, as I often do at churches and on Sundays, I don't start with Genesis. I start with John 1:1. In the beginning was the word. In the beginning was intelligence, purpose, and wisdom. The Bible had that right. And the materialist scientists are deluding themselves".
1999 Johnson's article The Wedge says his "own writing and speaking represents the sharp edge of the Wedge. I make the first penetration, seeking always only to legitimate a line of inquiry rather than to win a debate", with Behe, Dembski and "a lot more" following into the opening.


== Teach the controversy ==
1999 strategies: argue that individual teachers have a constitutional right to present creationist material, and that "evidence against evolution" should be taught in the science classroom as a way to improve teaching and learning. Attempts to teach IC and introduce Pandas. Resources for teachers ... abundantly available from both "creation science ministries" and conservative religious groups.
1999 David DeWolf, Stephen C. Meyer and Mark DeForrest coauthored a 40-page booklet, Intelligent Design in Public School Science Curricula: A Legal Guidebook, published by the FTE. It claims Edwards v. Aguillard mandated "teaching a variety of scientific theories about the origins of humankind" subject to a "clear secular intent of enhancing.. science instruction."
1999 Skagit County's Burlington-Edison School District finds that for almost 10 years the high-school science teacher Roger DeHart had been omitting state-approved biology textbook teaching on evolution, and using Pandas.
Aug. 17, 1999, Philip Kitcher, professor of the philosophy of science at Columbia University, in online debate in Slate magazine with Johnson, coins neo-creo: "Enter the neo-creos, scavenging the scientific literature, they take claims out of context and pretend that everything about evolution is controversial. ... But it's all a big con."
May 10, 2000, DI briefing of Congress, "Scientific Evidence of Intelligent Design and its Implications for Public Policy and Education,"  also addressed the social, moral, and political consequences of Darwinism. Creation-evolution debate had primarily been active at the state and local level, a new effort to involve Congress, took place as the Senate entered its second week of debate on overhauling federal K-12 education programs. Nancy Pearcey "For Darwinists, religion must give way to a new science-based cosmic myth with the power to bind humans together in a new world order. She then asked what this means for morality and argued that people were right to be concerned that all the above would undercut morality."
July 2000 Dean Kenyon and David DeWolf of CRSC: Kenyon states "Scientific creationism ... is actually one of the intellectual antecedents of the Intelligent Design movement.
June 2001 Rick Santorum introduces The Santorum Amendment to "Teach the Controversy" partially written by Johnson (and based on a law journal article written by DI activist David DeWolf) inviting, left out of bill but kept in conference report.
December 2002 DI lobbying to get ID into Ohio science standards Ohio House Bill 481. Bills all failed, ID excluded by name in the approved standard but it included the phrase "critically analyze aspects of evolutionary theory" used as excuse for the new "teach the controversy" strategy.
January 2004 Dembski The Design Revolution: Answering the Toughest Questions About Intelligent Design ISBN 0-8308-2375-1 page 22 "Theism, whether Christian, Jewish, or Muslim, holds that God by wisdom created the world. The origin of the world and its subsequent ordering thus result from the designing activity of an intelligent agent, God.Naturalism, on the other hand, allows no place for intelligent agency, except at the end of a blind, purposeless, material process."
2004 ©. FTE, draft for new version of Pandas, mentions 10th anniversary, authors listed as Michael J. Behe, Percival Davis, William A. Dembski, Dean H. Kenyon, Jonathan Wells. Contents list, preface, notes to teachers, notes to students, epilogue, but no main content.
March 9, 2004, Ohio State Board of Education approved by majority vote model lesson Critical Analysis of Evolution – Grade 10. Ohio Roundtable reported that a motion to remove the "Critical Analysis" lesson had been defeated: its sponsor had "claimed that the lesson was a 'religious effort, cloaked as science,' even though the lesson contains no religious statements whatsoever." The roundtable added that "It is very IMPORTANT to understand that the lesson contains only the scientific challenge to macroevolution.  There is NO religious content and NO promotion of any alternative theories, including intelligent design."
2004 Paul Nelson interviewed by a magazine called Touchstone: A Journal of Mere Christianity – "Easily, the biggest challenge facing the ID community is to develop a full-fledged theory of biological design. We don't have such a theory right now, and that's a real problem. Without a theory, it's very hard to know where to direct your research focus. Right now, we've got a bag of powerful intuitions and a handful of notions such as irreducible complexity and specified complexity, but as yet, no general theory of biological design."
2004  the school board of Grantsburg, Wisconsin, voted to have ID taught as an alternative to evolution. By late summer 2005 letters urging reversal had been organised by a department of University of Wisconsin–Madison and clergy nationwide, the Clergy Letter Project, resulting in the board largely reversing their decision.
April 8, 2004 first of the Academic Freedom bills promoting intelligent design passed unanimously by the Alabama Senate. On May 17, 2004, the Alabama House adjourned the 2004 legislative session without voting on the bill, allowing it to lapse. On February 8, 2005, a pair of virtually identical bills were simultaneously introduced in the Alabama Senate and House, again under the description of "The Academic Freedom Act."


== Kitzmiller lawsuit ==
June 7, 2004, at Dover, Pennsylvania, the Dover Area School District School Board considered a new biology textbook. William Buckingham objected, wanting a textbook that gave a balanced view between creationism and evolution. He subsequently proposed Of Pandas and People, after acrimonious debate it was left off the list on August 2.
October 4, 2004, Buckingham announced acceptance of 50 donated copies of Pandas. On October 18 the full School Board voted 6–3 to amend the district's curriculum to include intelligent design. Buckingham states a law firm has offered pro bono legal representation.
December 12, 2004, Phillip Johnson stated in an interview "What the Dover board did is not what I'd recommend. ... Just teach evolution with a recognition that it's controversial ..."
December 14, 2004, 11 parents, ACLU, Americans United and Pepper Hamilton LLP file lawsuit Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District, lead plaintiff Tammy Kitzmiller, the mother of a ninth grader in the biology class. On December 20, the District voted for the Thomas More Law Center to represent it pro bono.
May 2005 Kansas school board hearings led by John Calvert, director of the Kansas office of the Intelligent Design Network, boycotted by mainstream scientists as an "anti-science crusade."
September 26, 2005 to November 4, 2005, Kitzmiller trial before Judge John E. Jones III
November 2005 Kansas school board voted 6–4 for new science standards criticising evolution, redefining science, then turned out in elections.
December 20, 2005, Kitzmiller decision; Judge Jones issued his findings of fact and decision as his 139 page MEMORANDUM OPINION.


== After the Kitzmiller lawsuit ==
February 2006 Kansas school board voted 6–4 for new standards supporting evolution.
February 2006 Ohio Governor Bob Taft requests legal review of the state's "teach the controversy" curriculum standards, Ohio State Board of Education members vote 11–4 to drop all of the "teach the controversy".
Spring 2006 Phillip Johnson states in interview "I also don't think that there is really a theory of intelligent design at the present time to propose as a comparable alternative to the Darwinian theory, which is, whatever errors it might contain, a fully worked out scheme. There is no intelligent design theory that's comparable. Working out a positive theory is the job of the scientific people that we have affiliated with the movement. Some of them are quite convinced that it's doable, but that's for them to prove ... No product is ready for competition in the educational world."
June 2007 Behe's book The Edge of Evolution: The Search for the Limits of Darwinism, claims that variation for the building blocks of evolution are not due to random mutation in DNA, but instead produced by an intelligent designer. Reiterates argument for irreducible complexity, calculating improbability on 2 or more beneficial mutations happening simultaneously, rather than one by one as evolutionary theory requires.
2007, A new biology textbook intended to replace Of Pandas and People, entitled Explore Evolution, is published by Hill House Publishers. The book is authored by Stephen C. Meyer, Scott Minnich and Paul A. Nelson, Jonathan Moneymaker and Ralph Seelke.
2007 William A. Dembski and Jonathan Wells rewrote Of Pandas and People as a college textbook, The Design of Life. When asked in a December interview whether his research concluded that God is the Intelligent Designer, Dembski stated "I believe God created the world for a purpose. The Designer of intelligent design is, ultimately, the Christian God."
April, 2008, the pro-intelligent design movie Expelled: No Intelligence Allowed is debuted.
May, 2008 a Wall Street Journal article describes the common goal of Academic Freedom bills is to expose more students to articles and videos that undercut evolution, most of which are produced by advocates of intelligent design or Biblical creationism.
December 2008 an article in Scientific American detailed how "Creationists continue to agitate against the teaching of evolution in public schools, adapting their tactics to match the roadblocks they encounter. Past strategies have included portraying creationism as a credible alternative to evolution and disguising it under the name "intelligent design." Other tactics misrepresent evolution as scientifically controversial and pretend that advocates for teaching creationism are defending academic freedom. "Academic freedom" was the creationist catchphrase of choice in 2008 ... the Discovery Institute subsequently retreated to a strategy to undermine the teaching of evolution, introducing a flurry of labels and slogans—"teach the controversy," "critical analysis" and "academic freedom"—to promote its version of the fallback strategy ... despite the lofty language, the ulterior intent and likely effect of these bills are evident: undermining the teaching of evolution in public schools."


== See also ==
Freiler v. Tangipahoa Parish Board of Education
Selman v. Cobb County School District


== Notes ==


== References ==
Witham, Larry (2005). Where Darwin Meets the Bible: Creationists and Evolutionists in America. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-518281-1.
Moore, R.; Decker, M.; Cotner, S.H. (2009). Chronology of the Evolution-Creationism Controversy. ABC-Clio. ISBN 978-0-313-36288-0. Retrieved 9 September 2020.


== External links ==
Miller, Kenneth R., (1999) Of Pandas and People: A Brief Review
A Philosophical Premise of 'Naturalism'? by Mark Isaak 2002
Behe's empty box on Richard Dawkins' site, Last Updated: Wednesday, November 28, 2001
Anselm Atkins on Behe: letter to a friend on Black Box.
Freske, Stanley (Spring 1981). "Creationist Misunderstanding, Misrepresentation, and Misuse of the Second Law of Thermodynamics". Creation Evolution Journal. 2 (2). National Center for Science Education: 8–16.
History Forum Addresses Creation/Evolution Controversy – development of creationism in early 20th century etc.
Annas GJ (May 2006). "Intelligent judging–evolution in the classroom and the courtroom". N. Engl. J. Med. 354 (21): 2277–81. doi:10.1056/NEJMlim055660. PMID 16723620.
Intelligent design timeline, ResearchID.org, a pro-intelligent design wiki

RAE Systems, Inc., or RAE System by Honeywell, is a provider of wireless, gas and radiation detection instruments and systems that enable real-time safety and security threat detection to help mitigate risk, and protect workers, contractors, the public, and assets. RAE Systems is located in San Jose, California. The company was founded in 1991 by Robert I. Chen and Peter Hsi.
The company's competitors include Ion Science Ltd, Mine Safety Appliances, Industrial Scientific Corporation, and Dräger. Some of its customers include BP, Chevron Corporation, and Total Petroleum in the energy sector; United States Air Force, United States Navy, and United States Department of Homeland Security in the government sector; DuPont and Formosa Plastics Corp in other industry sectors.


== History ==
Robert I. Chen and Peter Hsi founded RAE Systems in 1991 to apply sensor technology to monitor toxic chemicals for environmental, industrial safety, energy, hazardous material (HazMat), emergency response, and government applications. The co-founders started the company after selling Applied Optoelectronic Technology Corporation, a manufacturer of computer-aided test systems, to Hewlett-Packard.
In 2013, the company's detectors were used in 120 countries by industrial organizations, emergency responders, and government agencies. In April 2013, the company was acquired by Honeywell.


== Technology ==
The company holds over 40 chemical sensor patents in the detection-sensor field, which include patents for photoionization, wireless, and radiation technologies. The company's offerings include wirelessly-enabled technologies for emergency response, national security, CBRNE agent detection, fire, and military end user applications. Also, the company has products for real-time detection of unseen threats such as radiation, chemical warfare agents (CWA), and toxic and combustible gases.
With its photoionization technology, the company provides photoionization detector (PID) that can help safety professionals monitor and measure volatile organic compounds (VOCs), combustible gases and vapors, and toxic gases. With its wireless and radiation technologies, the company developed portable devices that are able to detect low-level radiation in real-time, as well as dosimeters that can detect dose rates and help protect industrial workers from radiation exposure. RAE Systems wireless gas detection systems enable incident commanders to extend monitoring capabilities and share critical data in real time as emergencies unfold.
The company also incorporates wireless communication and data transmission capabilities into its offerings. In 2001, RAE Systems introduced its first wireless data transmission product. In the first quarter of 2012, the ProRAE Guardian was launched, enabling access to real-time data on toxic gases and radiation, combined with the physiological status and location of workers and emergency response teams. In January 2012, the company released its cloud-based service, called ProRAE Guardian CloudServer, for first responders to detect hazardous threats in real-time and to share gas and radiation data globally. This service helps emergency response teams shorten the time to analyze threats and make decisions.


== Industries ==
The company serves five industries, including energy exploration and refining/oil and gas, industrial safety, national security, fire and HazMat, and the environmental market.
The energy exploration and refining/oil and gas sector requires process measurements and safety alert systems to address worldwide industrial incidents, like the 2010 catastrophic explosion of the Deepwater Horizon oil rig and Total's Elgin platform gas leak in March 2012. The company's monitors are utilized by energy companies for exploration, refining as well as downstream monitoring and safety.
In the industrial safety market, there is an increasing awareness that long-term exposure to even very low concentrations of toxic or hazardous gases can adversely affect workers’ health.  Businesses and organizations require ongoing monitoring and detection to assess the acceptable level of toxic gas exposure for personnel.
In the oil and gas, industrial production, fire and HazMat, national security, and environmental industries, the company's products are deployed by first responders to improve public protection and reduce response times.
Additionally, the company's offerings, like its AreaRAE wireless monitoring system, are utilized for risk management, asset security, and employee well-being by international organizations and sports venues such as the Super Bowl, World Series games, NBA championship, and Government conventions. The company's sensors were also deployed at the London 2012 Olympics and other international table tennis tournaments, where the International Table Tennis Federation (ITFF) asked RAE Systems to provide sensors to test paddles.


== References ==

This is a list of supplements published for the Warhammer 40,000 tabletop miniatures wargame.


== First edition (Warhammer 40,000: Rogue Trader) (1987) ==
Warhammer 40,000: Rogue Trader (1987)


== Second edition (1993) ==
Codex: Imperial Guard (1995)
Codex: Angels of Death (1996)


== Third edition (1998) ==
Codex – Blood Angels (1998)
Codex – Chaos Space Marines (1999)
Codex – Space Wolves (2000)
Codex – Tyranids (2001)
Warhammer 40,000: Chapter Approved (2001)
Warhammer 40,000: Codex Battlezone – Cityfight (2001)
Warhammer 40,000: Imperial Armour II (2001)
Warhammer 40,000: Codex – Necrons (2002)
Codex – Witch Hunters (2003)
Warhammer 40,000: Codex – Daemonhunters (2003)
Warhammer 40,000: Codex – Eye of Terror (2003)
Warhammer 40,000: Codex – Imperial Guard (2003)


== Fourth edition (2004) ==


== Fifth edition (2008) ==
Warhammer 40,000: Codex – Imperial Guard 


== Sixth edition (2012) ==


== Seventh edition (2014) ==


== Eighth edition (2017) ==


== Ninth edition (2020) ==


== Tenth edition (2023) ==


== See also ==
Codex (Warhammer 40,000)
Imperial Armour


== References ==

Lenger lanang (Javanese: ꧋ꦭꦺꦁꦒꦺꦂꦭꦤꦁ) is a traditional Javanese dance originating from Banyumas, Central Java, Indonesia. This dance has existed for hundreds of years. Lengger lanang is not just an ordinary dance but a tradition of worshiping the Goddess of Fertility (Dewi Sri) to celebrate harvests or village clean ceremonies that have been passed down from generation to generation. Lengger lanang dance is a form of cross-gender culture in Indonesia. This dance is categorized as cross-gender because the performer is a man who appears to be a woman.
Lengger dance is a folk art that has existed and developed for a long time in the agrarian society of Banyumas. Previously, Lengger lanang was considered to have magical-religious elements which were originally staged as a form of community gratitude in a ceremony after the harvest. Even so, the Lengger lanang dance is currently often stigmatized by society and is considered to spread LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender) values in Indonesia.


== History ==

The origin of this dance is not known for certain, but there are many traces of dances in fertility rituals such as the lengger. In the book Tradisi Lengger dan Transformasi (2000) by Sunaryadi, there are two possibilities for the emergence of Lengger art. Some say that Lengger comes from Jatilawang, Banyumas.
There is also a mention that the traditional art originated from Mataram and entered the Kalibagor area, Banyumas in 1755. Actually, the Lengger dance is performed by men but is dressed like a woman. So as if the dance was performed by women.
The Lengger Lanang dance is thought to have appeared in Banyumas in the 18th century. At that time Mangkunegara VII ordered three writers to travel to Java. Then write about the life of the Javanese people at that time. While in Banyumas, the writer encountered the art of Lengger. The art is written on the Serat Centhini. Lengger lanang is believed to have been adapted from the Ronggeng dance, but the difference is that Ronggeng is performed by female dancers.


== Meaning ==
Lengger lanang dance is an art that has the meaning of fertility and religion.
Banyumas people believe that this art contains fertility values. The community considers Lengger lanang as Ana Celeng Gawe Geger, which means that in ancient times when the harvest season arrived, wild boars from the forest came down to agricultural land to damage those being harvested, so that makes the community fail to harvest. Then the community had an idea to drive the animals away with various kinds of beats and sounds. Where it is sounded simultaneously by men, for women to perform spontaneous movements by waving their hands to the right and left to ward off animals by following the music. This activity continues to be carried out until it becomes a tradition with the birth of the art of Lengger Banyumasan in the community.
In the past, before performing a performance, dancers would perform rituals first, such as fasting Monday and Thursday, or meditating in a certain place. It was done to invite the indang (spirit that possessed the Lengger dancer). One who has attained the indang can dance and sing very well without practice.


== Form and movement ==

The Lengger lanang dance performance is divided into four acts or scenes. The first round is the Gamyongan, the second round is the Lenggeran, the third round is the Badhutan or Bodhoran, and the last is the Baladewaan.
The movement of the Lengger lanang dance is very simple and there is no standard for the details of the movement. Basically, the people in the past did not have special skills, such as what Lengger called Ana Celeng Gawe Geger.
The clothes worn are mekak, jarik cloth, and sampur. At the head using a Javanese bun with simple jewelry, namely a comb made of buffalo horn that looks like a sirkam. The jewelry used to be called cundhuk, then there were menthul and giwang. To the accompaniment of gamelan music or more specifically a set of calung musical instruments.


== See also ==

Lengger
Dance in Indonesia


== References ==

From Bauhaus to Our House is a 1981 narrative of Modern architecture, written by Tom Wolfe.


== Background ==
In 1975 Wolfe made his first foray into art criticism with The Painted Word, in which he argued that art theory had become too pervasive because the art world was controlled by a small elitist network of wealthy collectors, dealers and critics.  Art critics were, in turn, highly critical of Wolfe's book, arguing that he was a philistine who knew nothing of what he wrote.
After The Painted Word, Wolfe published a collection of his essays, Mauve Gloves & Madmen, Clutter & Vine (1976), and his history of the earliest years of the space program, The Right Stuff (1979).  Undeterred by the hostile critical response to The Painted Word, and perhaps even encouraged by the stir the book made, Wolfe set about writing a critique of modern architecture.  From Bauhaus to Our House was published in full in two issues of Harper's Magazine, then issued in book form by Wolfe's long-time publisher Farrar, Straus & Giroux in 1981.


== Themes ==

Wolfe bluntly lays out his thesis in the introduction to From Bauhaus to Our House with a riff on the patriotic song "America the Beautiful"

O beautiful, for spacious skies, for amber waves of grain, has there ever been another place on earth where so many people of wealth and power have paid for and put up with so much architecture they detested as within thy blessed borders today?

Wolfe criticizes the tendencies of modern architecture to avoid any external ornamentation.  Wolfe praised architects like Louis Sullivan who, from the late 19th century to his death in 1924, built a number of ornate buildings.  Wolfe turned his criticism on the International Style and Modern Architecture exemplified by architects such as Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, Le Corbusier and Walter Gropius (the founder of the Bauhaus school in Germany, whose ideas influenced Modern Architecture, and from which the title of the book derives).  Wolfe believed that the buildings of the International Style and Modern Architecture could barely be appreciated by those who had to work in them.
Wolfe's critique, however, was not purely aesthetic.  As in The Painted Word Wolfe was critical of what he saw as too much adherence to theory.  Wolfe characterized the architecture as based on a political philosophy that was inapplicable to America, arguing, for example, that it was silly to model American schools on "worker's flats" for the proletariat.  The architecture world—like an art world dominated by critics, and a literature world dominated by creative writing programs—was producing buildings that nobody liked.  Many architects, in Wolfe's opinion, had no particular goal but to be the most avant-garde.


== Critical response ==
As Wolfe's arguments mirrored those he made in The Painted Word so was mirrored the critical response.  The response to Wolfe's book from the architecture world was highly negative.  Critics argued that, once again, Wolfe was writing on a topic he knew nothing about and had little insight to contribute to the conversation.  Time critic Robert Hughes wrote that Wolfe had added nothing to the discussion of modern architecture except "a kind of supercilious rancor and a free-floating hostility toward the intelligentsia". The architectural and urban critic Michael Sorkin noted, "What Tom Wolfe doesn't know about modern architecture could fill a book. And so indeed it has, albeit a slim one."
Hilton Kramer writing in the Saturday Review found Wolfe's writing hyperbolic and refuted some of Wolfe's points.  Wolfe had claimed, for example, that a Modern Architecture exhibition at the Museum of Modern Art had played a large role in subverting native culture; Kramer rebutted that the museum had displayed the art of Charles Burchfield and Edward Hopper before Picasso and Matisse and that the exhibition occurred in 1932 while the architecture itself remained uncommon for another 20 years.
Some critics conceded that Wolfe was right that many people did not appreciate the buildings.  Blake Morrison, writing in the Times Literary Supplement observed that perhaps some people felt such hostility to architecture because it is "a gallery we can't walk out of, a book we can't close, and art we can't even turn our backs on because it is there facing us on the other side of the street".
Others noted that, regardless of whether Wolfe was right or wrong, architecture was already moving away from Modern architecture to Postmodern architecture.  Many of the complaints that Wolfe lodged against Modern architecture, particularly the austere boxiness of the buildings, were no longer a facet of postmodern architecture.
Critics observed that the book was well written.  Paul Goldberger, the architecture critic for The New York Times wrote, "Mr. Wolfe's agility continues to dazzle, more than fourteen years after his essays first began to appear in print. But dazzle is not history, or architectural criticism, or even social criticism, and it is certainly not an inquiry into the nature of the relationship between architecture and society."


== References ==


== External links ==
From Bauhaus to Our House excerpt in Harper's Magazine, June 1981.
From Bauhaus to Our House Archived 2019-06-30 at the Wayback Machine at tomwolfe.com.

The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Paraíba (Latin: Archidioecesis Parahybensis) is a Latin Metropolitan archdiocese, named after the city of João Pessoa, which used to be named Paraíba, in southeastern Brazil.
Its cathedral archiepiscopal see is a minor basilica, the Cathedral Basilica of Our Lady of the Snows (Catedral Basílica Metropolitana Nossa Senhora das Neves), in the city of João Pessoa, the state capital.


== History ==
Established on April 27, 1892 as the Diocese of Paraiba, on territory split off from the then Diocese of Olinda
Lost territory on 1909.12.29 to establish the then Diocese of Natal (now Metropolitan itself)
Promoted on February 6, 1914 as the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Paraíba, having lost territory to establish its senior suffragan, the Diocese of Cajazeiras
Lost territory twice again to establish more suffragan sees: on 1949.05.14 the Diocese of Campina Grande and on 1980.10.11 the Diocese of Guarabira.


== Statistics ==
As per 2014, it pastorally served 1,288,000 Catholics (82.8% of 1,556,103 total) on 6,703 km² in 89 parishes and 8 missions with 151 priests (116 diocesan, 35 religious), 37 deacons, 259 lay religious (41 brothers, 218 sisters) and 45 seminarians.


== Ecclesiastical province ==
Its Suffragan sees are:

Roman Catholic Diocese of Cajazeiras, a daughter
Roman Catholic Diocese of Campina Grande, a daughter
Roman Catholic Diocese of Guarabira, youngest daughter
Roman Catholic Diocese of Patos


== Bishops ==
(all Roman Rite)


=== Episcopal ordinaries ===
 Suffragan Bishops of Paraíba
Bishop Adauctus Aurélio de Miranda Henriques (1894.01.02 – 1914.02.06 see below)
Metropolitan Archbishops of Paraíba
Adauctus Aurélio de Miranda Henriques (see above 1914.02.06 – death 1935.08.15)
Moisés Ferreira Coelho (1935.08.16 – death 1959.04.18), previously Bishop of Cajazeiras (Brazil) (1914.11.16 – 1932.02.12), then Titular Archbishop of Berœa (1932.02.12 – 1935.08.16) as Coadjutor Archbishop of Paraíba (1932.02.12 – succession 1935.08.16)
Auxiliary Bishop: Manuel Pereira da Costa (1954.05.31 – 1959.06.20), Titular Bishop of Knin (1954.05.31 – 1959.06.20); later Bishop of Nazaré (Brazil) (1959.06.20 – 1962.08.23), Bishop of Campina Grande (Brazil) (1962.08.23 – retired 1981.05.20), died 2006
Mário de Miranda Villas-Boas (1959.06.20 – retired 1965.05.18), emeritate as Titular Archbishop of Gibba (1965.05.18 – death 1968.02.23); previously Bishop of Garanhuns (Brazil) (1938.05.26 – 1944.09.10), Metropolitan Archbishop of Belém do Pará (Brazil) (1944.09.10 – 1956.10.23), Titular Archbishop of Cyrrhus (1956.10.23 – 1959.06.20) as never succeeding Coadjutor Archbishop of São Salvador da Bahia (Brazil) (1956.10.23 – 1959.06.20)
José Maria Pires (1965.12.02 – retired 1995.11.29); previously Bishop of Araçuaí (Brazil) (1957.05.25 – 1965.12.02)
Marcelo Pinto Carvalheira (1995.11.29 – retired 2004.05.05), also Vice-President of National Conference of Bishops of Brazil (1998 – 2003); previously Titular Bishop of Bitylius (1975.10.29 – 1981.11.09) as Auxiliary Bishop of Paraíba (1975.10.29 – 1981.11.09), Bishop of Guarabira (Brazil) (1981.11.09 – 1995.11.29)
Aldo de Cillo Pagotto, Congregation of the Blessed Sacrament (S.S.S.) (2004.05.05 – retired 2016.07.06), previously Coadjutor Bishop of Sobral (Brazil) (1997.09.10 – 1998.03.18) succeeding as Bishop of Sobral (1998.03.18 – 2004.05.05)
 Apostolic Administrator Genival Saraiva de França  (2016.07.06 – 2017.03.08), former Bishop of Palmares (Brazil) (2000.07.12 – 2014.03.19)
Manoel Delson Pedreira da Cruz, OFMCap (2017.03.08 – ...), previously Bishop of Caicó (Brazil) (2006.07.05 – 2012.08.08), Bishop of Campina Grande (Brazil) (2012.08.08 – 2017.03.08).


=== Coadjutor archbishop ===
Moisés Sizenando Coelho (1932-1935)


=== Auxiliary bishops ===
Manuel Pereira da Costa (1954-1959), appointed Bishop of Nazaré, Pernambuco
Marcelo Pinto Carvalheira (1975-1981), appointed Archbishop here


== See also ==
List of Catholic dioceses in Brazil


== Sources and external links ==

GCatholic.org, with Google map and satellite photo - data for all sections
Catholic Hierarchy
Archdiocese website (Portuguese)

Umm Ashoqan is a Palestinian village in the Hebron Governorate, located east of Yatta in the southern West Bank.


== Geography ==
It is bordered by the village of Ar-Rifa'iyya to the east, the village of Al-Buweib to the north, Umm al-Amad to the west, and Khalet al-Maiyya to the south.


== Population ==
It is considered part of the Khalet al-Maiyya Municipality (Palestinian Authority).
The village's population in 2017 was approximately (605) people, according to the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics.


== See also ==
Hebron Governorate


== References ==

L'avaro (Italian for "the miser") may refer to:

L'avaro (Anfossi), a 1775 opera by Pasquale Anfossi
L'avaro or The Miser (1990 film)


== See also ==
L'Avare, French for The Miser, a 1668 play by Molière

Golaghat (English:  Gʊlaɡʱat ['ɡʊlaɡʱat] ), the 3rd largest subdivision of the Indian state of Assam, later elevated to the position of a full–fledged district headquarter on 5 October 1987, is a city and a municipality and the seat of administrative operations of Golaghat district, besides being a twin city to Jorhat which is about 55 km away. It is one of the oldest urban areas in Assam that recently featured on the Smart Cities nominations list, along with Guwahati and four other prominent urban areas of the state; although losing out to Guwahati at the final stage. The Dhansiri, one of the tributaries of the Brahmaputra, passes through Golaghat and is the primary water source for its citizens.
One of the earliest tea urban centres in Assam that has been the headquarters of the oldest subdivision for over 188–189 years since 1839, the local government body, Golaghat Municipal Board (GMB), was set up in early 1920, becoming a long-established civic body of the state, formed before independent India. It is a historical body of 107–108 years of age in continuous operation.
Golaghat has the inceptive post/mail service and telegraphic communication systems in Assam going back to 1876. The oldest social – literature/rhetorical congresses of Assam – the Golaghat Sahitya Sabha of Asam Sahitya Sabha, also began here in 1918. The Golaghat Amateur Theatre Society (GATS), one of the premier theater societies of the state, was set up here in 1895  to uplift the dramatic and cultural activities in the region, particularly Golaghat. The Golaghat Bar Association (GBA), founded in 1891, is one of the oldest legal societies in Assam, especially in the Upper – Assam division.
Golaghat has a number of heritage buildings and sites – the Golaghat British Cemetery, constructed in 1876, the Bezbaruah Higher Secondary School, set up in the late 19th century in the year 1886 by the educationalist Dinanath Bezbarua, the Baptist Church founded by the American missionaries in 1898, the Christian High (Mission) School built by the American Women Foreign Mission Society in 1919, Assam's first department store – Doss & Co., constructed in 1930 and incorporated under the Registrar of Companies (RoC) – Shillong in the year 1955 to name a few.
The headquarters of Assam Valley Tea Planters' Association (now Assam Tea Planters Association) were also based in Golaghat. Set up in 1941 under Mahendra Nath Barooah's management, the erstwhile headquarters played a significant role in enrolling associate members, besides laying the first foundations of growth, recognition and reputation that the association is presently credited for. Golaghat also has one of the oldest boards of trades and industries in the state. The United Chamber of Commerce (UCC) formed in 1954 antecedes many newer chambers of commerce that have been set up in the state in the more recent years.
Assam's first major regional political party, the AGP was formed here and launched in the year 1985 at the historic Golaghat Convention and by 2008; the same members of the convention reunified the party at this place.
The place is also the headquarters of The North Eastern Tea Association (NETA), one of the tea growers' groups in the state of Assam, a constituent member of Consultative Committee of Plantation Associations (CCPA), Assam Valley branch.


== Etymology ==
The name Golaghat (gola which means shop and ghat meaning the landing point of river ferry or enclosure for boats) originated from the shops established by the Marwari businessmen during the mid-20th century on the bank of Dhansiri river near present Golaghat.
There is another view, which is more sophisticated and older than the arrival of the British and Indian businessmen. During the Ahom kingdom era, there was a storehouse of cannonballs also locally called Gola and transported by local ferry Ghat, from which name Golaghat has been derived.


== History ==


=== 9th century ===
The stone inscription of Nagajari-khanikar village of Sarupathar, dating back to the 5th century, reveals that there was an independent kingdom in Doyang – Dhansiri valley and the relics of ramparts, brick structures, temples and tanks etc. discovered in these areas suggest the presence of a kingdom during the 9th and 10th century.


=== Under Ahoms ===
The Doyang – Dhansiri valley came under the rule of Ahom dynasty during the 16th century.  During Ahom rule, this area was under Morongi-khowa Gohain, an administrative officer.


=== Early modern ===
In 1751, certain portions of Barpathar, Sarupathar Barangi mauzas of Golaghat circle and Duarbagari of Bokakhat circle were transferred to the United Mikir and N.C. Hills districts.
During the last phrase of the Ahom kingdom, when the independent sovereignty of Ahoms had come to an end, Purandar Singha was entrusted in 1833 with the administration of Upper – Assam by the East India Company who had already won mastery over Assam. However, this artificial ornamentation by the scion of Ahom Royal House was short-lived, and in the year 1838, the whole area was resumed by the authorities of the company and annexed to the British territory with the appointment of Col. Aham White as the political agent on 16 September during the same year.
By a proclamation in 1839, the British took possession of Assam and the area was divided into two districts of Lakhimpur and Sibsagar, where the Doyang – Dhansiri valley was included under the newly formed Golaghat subdivision of Sibsagar district in 1839. Golaghat became the largest subdivision in Assam and comprised Dergaon and Golaghat circles. Golaghat circle was the largest among them with 150.10 square miles of area, while Dergaon was the smallest. During this time, Purandar Singha continued to rule with Jorhat as the capital of his territory, Upper – Assam, but with the formation of two other subdivisions, one at Jaipur and the other at Golaghat.
On 18 December 1846, Jorhat was declared a subdivision comprising certain portions of Golaghat subdivision. 
The earliest head post offices of the Assam circle of British Assam were located in Golaghat besides Debrughur, Goahati, Jorhat, Nowgong, Sibsagar, Shillong and Tezpore.

 
Much later after telegraph lines had been stretched between Calcutta and Guwahati in 1869; Golaghat got its speaking wires' system in and around 1876. The lines were stretched to connect Golaghat with Kohima, Shillong with Goahati, Sibsagar with Nazerah and Debrughur with Makum.

In British Assam, Golaghat derived its importance chiefly because of having advanced communication systems during that time and on account of its connection by road with Kohima. One of the oldest railway lines in Assam was also built in Golaghat. The text noted from the book Glimpse of Assam written by Mrs. S.R. Ward in 1884 state: Mr Bryers who was then the Chief of Cachar and Assam Railway Survey succeeded in finding a railway route that would be carried up the Dhunsiri valley to Golaghat... thus giving Assam direct railway communication with Chittagong and Calcutta.


=== Late modern and contemporary ===
Golaghat elevated to the position of a full-fledged district in Assam comprising an area of 3,502 km2 (or 1, 352.13 sq. mi) on 5 October 1987 and is known for its notable contribution in India's independence movement, arts and culture, literature and sports in the region.

Kushal Konwar, Kamala Miri, Dwariki Das, Biju Vaishnav, Sankar Chandra Barua, Tara Prasad Barooah, Maheshwar Barooah, Rajendra Nath Barua, Gaurilal Jain, Ganga Ram Bormedhi and Dwarikanath Goswami are Indian independence activists of the town.
The 19th century writer, Hem Chandra Barua, who authored the first Assamese dictionary Hemkosh hailed from Golaghat.
Ghanashyam Barua, a resident of this place, reckoned in the field of politics as the first Central Minister of Assam, translated William Shakespeare's The Comedy of Errors into Assamese along with three of his partners.
Several national and international sportspeople in fields of athletics, table tennis, tennis, boxing and football have come from Golaghat.
Numaligarh Refinery is the biggest revenue generating industrial sector in Golaghat.


== Administration ==


=== Local government ===

The administration of Golaghat is formed of two tiers: a city-wide and a local tier. The city-wide administration is coordinated by the Golaghat Development Authority, while the local administration is carried out by the Golaghat Municipal Board. The development authority functions under the Directorate of Town and Country Planning – Urban Development Department, Government of Assam and is responsible for the implementation of infrastructure projects, besides preparation of master plan for Golaghat urban area to ensure distributed growth. The authority works closely with the municipal board.
The municipal board covers the geographical area of 17 square kilometres (6.6 sq mi) within Golaghat and has the administration over 9,646 houses to which it supplies basic amenities like water and sewerage, besides performing certain obligatory services as a part of the local administration.
The Deputy Commissioner of Golaghat is the executive head and is responsible for law and order, implementation of government schemes, besides being also authorised to hear revenue cases pertaining to the district.
The Chairperson of Golaghat is an elected representative who is accountable for the strategic governance of Golaghat headquarters. The Chairperson directs the elected Ward Commissioners in entirety of Golaghat on various civic matters.
The main functions include, but not limited to the following:

Strategic planning, including housing, waste management, the environment and production of the Golaghat Master Plan
Refuse or permit planning permission on strategic grounds
Transport policy
Fire and emergency planning, delivered by the functional body Fire & Emergency Services, Assam
Policing and crime policy
Economic development, delivered through the functional body Golaghat Development Authority
Power to create development corporations


=== Neighbourhoods ===
This is a list of the areas of Golaghat, in alphabetical order. In political or administrative usage contemporary areas of Golaghat are informal, often being based on or adapted from historic contexts. For electoral purposes the areas are divided into wards.
The oldest borough in Golaghat is Amolapatty.


== Geography ==


=== Scope ===
Golaghat is located at 26.52°N 93.97°E﻿ / 26.52; 93.97. It has an average elevation of 95 metres (312 feet).
The Golaghat telephone area code (3774) covers a larger area, the entire Golaghat district, while the PINs 785 621 – 785 702 range from Golaghat H.O. (Head Post Office) to other regions, such as the sub–office delivery in Bengenakhowa, branch office in Missionpatty etc.


=== Status ===
Golaghat presently comprises the areas within the jurisdiction of Golaghat Municipal Board, however, the proposed planning covers an extended area of Golaghat Grant and Bengenakhowa Grant, besides the Amolapatty region.


=== Topography ===

Golaghat encompasses a total area of 17 square kilometres (6.6 sq mi), an area which has a population of ~ 60,000 and a population density of ~ 8,303.55 inhabitants per square kilometre (21,506.1 inhabitants/mi2). Dhansiri River, one of the important tributaries of Brahmaputra River, is the primary geographical feature of Golaghat which is a navigable river and the main factor for the growth of human settlements in the region. The Dhansiri is a tidal river and Golaghat and surrounding areas are vulnerable to flooding.


=== Climate ===
Like most of the hill areas of Northeast India, Golaghat has a subtropical highland climate (Köppen Cwb) characterised by pleasant, dry and sunny winters and warm, humid and very wet summers.


==== Summer ====
The summer season is very warm and usually humid starting from the end of March and continuing until October. Golaghat falls within the temperate region with monsoon-type rainfall prevailing through the year. Summer days typically range from 20 to 24 °C (68.0 to 75.2 °F) but the humidity makes it feel hotter. South–west monsoons that lasts from June to September are responsible for a total average of 1,686 millimetres or 66.38 inches out of an annual total of 2,295 millimetres (90.35 in) of annual rainfall.


==== Winter ====
Winter commences from the month of November with less rainfall and misty mornings and afternoons. By December, afternoon temperatures are a pleasant 16 °C or 60.8 °F and mornings average 8 °C or 46.4 °F.
When compared with winter, the summers have much more rainfall.

Although located in one of the environmentally clean regions of India, the recent studies of air pollution levels in Golaghat have suggest poor air quality in the region with harmful air particulate matter levels higher than the standards.


=== Architecture ===
Being one of the oldest municipal regions in Assam, Golaghat has many pre-independence style of bungalows in Assam–type architecture, the design style that has houses with high ceilings and light tin roof and wooden or concrete flooring. However, with time, such characteristic designs are replaced with RCC houses and buildings.


== Demography ==

Previously in 2001 Census, Golaghat recorded a population of 33,021, constituting 53 percent males and 47 percent females of the total population, with 11 percent of the population under 6 years of age. The average literacy rate was noted to be 82%, higher than the national average of 59.5 percent, where male literacy stood at 84 percent and female literacy at 79 percent respectively.
In 2011 Census, Golaghat registered the lowest child sex ratio of 884 females per 1000 males, and the highest percentage of household-industry workers in the district at 4.98 percent. Males recorded a lower percentage than females at 2.57 males and 13.90 percent females respectively.
The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were at 3.69 percent and 1.21 percent i.e., a total of 1,549 and 507 populations respectively and 3979 to be the total slum population in the city.
The 2001-literacy rate of 82 percent increased to 90.93 percent in 2011, with the highest number of literates in the district, but at the same time, reporting the highest number of illiterates with 7,637 persons.
The largest religious groupings of the census are Hindus (77.04 per cent), and the smallest are undeclared at 0.11 (per cent).


== Economy ==

The modern economy in Golaghat began with a system of organized banking that started in 1926 with a functioning branch of the Gauhati Bank. The years thereafter led to the establishment of other newer banks, namely; the Union Bank, a cooperative bank under the presidency of Debeshwar Rajkhowa in 1930 and the Comilla Banking Corporation Limited in 1937. Later, the merger of Comilla Banking Corporation Limited with Tripura Modern Bank Limited led to the formation of United Bank of India branch in 1950.
Golaghat is an agrarian economy, comprising cultivation of cash crop: tea, besides food crops, such as rice and sugarcane.


=== Tea industry ===
Golaghat has played a significant role in the tea industry of Assam and there is a saying that one can’t make bad tea in the Golaghat belt. The small tea growers' movement was also started from Golaghat. As per the latest statistics, Golaghat has the third highest number of small tea growers (STGs) and third highest number of bought leaf factories (BLFs) in Assam.
The region has sixty three large tea estates with a turnover of twenty thousand tonnes of tea per year. Small-scale tea growers that are based here have also provided considerable traction to the economy because of large incomes. The Golaghat-based organisation, NETA representing 32 tea producers contributing 75 million kg of tea, has planned to set up tea boutiques for the promotion and easy accessibility of fresh, non-blended authentic tea at reasonable prices to consumers. The Tea Board of India also organises period small tea growers conventions in Golaghat for understanding domestic trade challenges and providing strategic directions for the growth of the economy.


=== Heavy industry ===
The Numaligarh Refinery is the major heavy industry in the region processing three million tonnes of crude oil per year.


=== International Trade Centre ===
An international trade centre for the regulation and governance of Agarwood cultivation and trade is going to be set up in Golaghat. The centre will assist in the export promotion efforts of Assam's economy by informing on export markets and marketing, besides helping in the development of export promotion services.


== Transport ==


=== Aviation ===
Jorhat Airport is the nearest airport to Golaghat which is about 37 km from the town. Dimapur Airport is situated about 88 km from Golaghat Town.


=== Rail ===
Golaghat Railway Station is located at Bet Mahal, and the main rail-head is Furkating Junction, about 10 km from the Golaghat municipal area. There are daily and weekly trains running through the Furkating junction to other cities of the country.


=== Roads ===
Golaghat is connected to NH-37 by PHG Path via Dergaon, connected to NH-37 Kamargaon through Dhodar Ali and connected to NH-39 by Golaghat Dimapur road. Three major highway passes through Golaghat District namely NH-37, NH-39 and Dhodar Ali. Golaghat is well connected by roadways to all the cities and towns in Assam. The National Highway 39 starts from Numaligarh and touching Golaghat in south-west corner. A new highway linking Rangajan tiniali with Golaghat town has already been constructed that connects via Pulibor Golaghat towards Dergaon for urbanisation and expansion of town area.


== Healthare and education ==


=== Education ===
Debraj Roy College, Hemo Prova Borbora Girls' College,
Golaghat Commerce College, Don Bosco College, Golaghat are full-fledged degree colleges; Reliance College Jr, Golaghat Jatiya Mahavidyalaya are intermediate-studies' college.
In the fields of legal and engineering studies, Golaghat Law College, Golaghat Engineering College and Golaghat Polytechnic Indian Technical Institute are major centers of education in the region. A proposed Sati Sadhani State University has been allocated.


=== Healthcare ===
Golaghat Nursing Home, Kushal Konwar Civil Hospital, HGM Nursing Home, GBM Nursing Home, Lifeline Hospital, VK- NRL Hospital. A proposed medical college and hospital has been allocated in Golaghat that will help in enhancement of Golaghat healthcare sector and its nearby areas.


=== Primary and secondary education ===
Primary and secondary education in Golaghat are offered by various schools affiliated to one of the boards of education, such as the High School Leaving Certificate (HSLC) of Board of Secondary Education, Assam (SEBA), All India Secondary School Examination (AISSE) of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) of Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISE). Schools in Golaghat are either government-run or are private (both aided and un-aided by the government).
After completing secondary education, teenagers either attend Higher Secondary School Leaving Certificate (HSSLC) through institutions affiliated to Assam Higher Secondary Education Council (AHSEC) or All India Senior Secondary School Examination (AISSSE) affiliated to CBSE or Indian School Certificate (ISC) affiliated to CISCE in one of the three streams – liberal arts or humanities, commerce or sciences with combination electives.
Primary school, such as the Town Model School, established in 1888 is 137–138 years old school in operation, whereas secondary school, such as Bezbaruah Higher Secondary School is over 139–140 years of age functioning since 1886. Sacred Heart School (SHS), set up by catholic missionaries in the year 1959. Kushal Konwar Balya Bhawan (KKBB), Vivekananda Kendra Vidyalaya (VKV), Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV), Gurukul Global Academy, Golaghat Jatiya Vidyalaya, FMR Smart School and Sri Sathya Sai Vidya Vihar are some schools in Golaghat.


== Culture ==


=== Leisure and entertainment ===
Golaghat offers required leisure and pleasure trips in and around the region. The place has tea processing units and other old landmarks and resorts, such as the Gymkhana and the Circuit House.
The Assam government has planned to launch the homestay scheme which will include building around sixty homestays to boost tourism in the Golaghat region.


==== Golaghat Gymkhana ====

Golaghat Gymkhana is a public/private members' club located on Station Road in Golaghat. Consisting mostly the citizens of Golaghat, it is a heritage bungalow built in 1910 and is a clubhouse. 117–118 years old building had been renovated to convert into a modern clubhouse.
The present–day club, open to all, is equipped with a lounge bar along with a billiard table, a gymnasium and a swimming pool, besides a restaurant.
Although anyone may apply for the membership to avail 'members-only' facilities, such as the gymnasium, applications may be reviewed to make an informed decision.
Golaghat's heritage Gymkhana Club, then the centre of entertainment and merry-making for military personnels, much like Jorhat, was destroyed during the Quit India Movement.


=== Museum and heritage sites and buildings ===


==== Natural History Museum ====
Natural History (Robin's) Museum is located on Mission Road, and was the former place of residence of late Dr Robin Banerjee, a naturalist of international repute.
Full of artefacts, mementoes, movies and other personal collections of Banerjee's lifetime, the museum showcases 587 dolls and 262 other showpieces which had been presented by admirers and children during his trips to abroad and in the country.


==== Golaghat Baptist Church ====
Golaghat Baptist Church is one of the oldest and biggest Baptist churches in Assam that was established in December 1898, and had celebrated its centenary anniversary in 1999.


==== Golaghat British Cemetery ====
Golaghat British Cemetery, established in 1876, is located on the premises opposite to Cally Coomar Doss & Co., adjacent to the circle office of Assam Power Distribution Company Limited. It is Assam's one of the oldest burial grounds containing 28 burials of British officers of tea estates and their families and is open for public viewing.


==== Doss & Co. ====
Constructed in 1930 and incorporated 71–72 years ago as Cally Coomar Doss Co. Pvt. Ltd. under the Registrar of Companies (RoC) – Shillong in the year 1955, located at Krishna Building, the Golaghat Doss & Co. is the oldest Department Store, and the largest during that time, that was established before India's independence from Britain.

The general merchants' store belonging to entity of company with limited shareholders and an authorised capital of ₹500,000 and paid–up capital of ₹210,000, still stands to this day, trading in the same building at the heart of the city centre, having many divisions comprising home appliances, electronics, and additionally select other lines of products such as paint, hardware, toiletries, cosmetics, photographic equipment, jewellery, toys, and sporting goods, among others.

Having built long ago, and reckoned as the earliest department store in the organised retail space, and with a legacy of sixty plus years in the state of Assam, the store is one of the recommended places for tourists in Golaghat, and has an official Assam Travel Guide entry, issued and published by Assam Tourism under the Joint Secretary Finance of Tourism Departments, Assam Secretariat.
Two years later, a second branch of this store was opened in Jorhat in the year 1957. The company was incorporated on 1 March 1957 under the name of Jorhat Doss Co. Pvt. Ltd. marked by Registrar of Companies (RoC) – Shillong .
The two stores with an age difference of two years, and with the assigned registration numbers of 1063 and 1086 respectively, laid the first foundations of department stores in the region, establishing Doss & Co. – Golaghat as the thousand sixty–third and Doss & Co. – Jorhat, the thousand eighty–sixth, limited companies in Assam to be listed under the category of Trading as the principal business activity based on the classification of registered companies by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India.


==== Deopahar ruins ====
A historical spot that has one of the finest sculptures of the pre-Ahom period. An important archaeological site in the state, located on the hills amidst the tropical forests, consisting the ruins of an ancient temple, and a vast range of sculptured stone blocks of pre-Cambrian rocks – the architectural style is of the later Gupta-era.
The archaeological site, situated in Numaligarh, is a protected by the Directorate of Archaeology, Government of Assam, India.
The site is atop a hillock called by the same name by the side of the National Highway 39. The hillock is a part of a forest reserve.


=== Music and art ===

Golaghat exerts a considerable impact upon the arts, music, education, entertainment of the region. It houses some of the oldest institutions of performing arts, and has produced many Assamese film directors and producers, such as Munin Baruah and Tapobrata Barua.

 
Golaghat was home to early film houses, projecting celluloid prints for viewing films, such as the Uravashi and the Chitralekha picture houses. However, with the advent of multiplexes, these have now been either closed or demolished.


==== Golaghat Amateur Theatre Society ====
Golaghat Amateur Theatre Society (GATS), established in 1895, is the oldest theatre society in Assam having its own auditorium. Most of the seminars, conferences, theatres, including experimental theatres, meetings and other workshops in the city are organised and conducted by GATS.


==== Ajanta Kala Mandal ====
Established in 1951, the Ajanta Kala Mandal (Ajanta Arts Society) is one of the oldest centres of teaching and propagation of Sattriya – the classical dance form of Assam. Set up by Pradeep Chaliha, a trained and renowned dancer of Assam and an honorary D.Litt. title holder from Dibrugarh University, the Ajanta Kala Mandal has trained numerous classical dancers of Assam since its inception, including internationally acclaimed Sattriya dancer, Indira P.P. Bora. The institute continues to train dancers and organizes various cultural workshops for the promotion of arts and culture in Golaghat, and greater Assam.


==== Sadhani Kalakshetra ====
 
Sadhani Kalakshetra (Queen's Arts & Cultural Complex), a cultural center located near Tenpur suburb in the Narakanwar region of Golaghat is a leading modern cultural centre in Upper – Assam. Spread over ~ 10 acres of land, it includes an air-conditioned auditorium, a tourist lodge, boating facility, an amusement park and restaurants. and is named after Sati Sadhani, the last queen of the Sutiya dynasty. The centre supports and encourages the creative expression of the indigenous cultures of Assam, enabling the Assamese society to promote presentations on drama, music, dance, and arts and crafts, many of which having origins in Assam.
Designed and developed by Government of Assam, the cultural complex is set up with the specific mission to create, preserve, promote and educate about the passion and dedication of Sati Sadhani.


== Recreation ==


=== Parks and open spaces ===


==== Garampani Wildlife Sanctuary ====
Garampani Wildlife Sanctuary is a 6.05-square-kilometre (2.34 sq mi) wildlife sanctuary which is 25 km (16 mi) away from Golaghat. It is one of the oldest sanctuaries containing hot-water spring and waterfall, and surrounded is by Nambor Sanctuary having 51 rare species of orchid.


==== Kaziranga National Park ====
Kazirônga National Park is a World Heritage Site that hosts two-thirds of the world's great one-horned rhinoceroses. It has the highest density of tigers among protected areas in the world and was declared a tiger reserve in 2006. The park is home to large breeding populations of elephants, wild water buffalo, and swamp deer. Kaziranga is recognized as an important birds' area by BirdLife International for the conservation of avi-faunal species. Located on the edge of the Eastern Himalaya biodiversity hot-spot, the park combines high species diversity and visibility. It is a vast expanse of tall elephant grass, marshland, and dense tropical moist broadleaf forests, criss-crossed by four major rivers, including the Brahmaputra, and the park includes numerous small bodies of water. The park celebrated its centennial in 2005 after its establishment in 1905 as a reserve forest.


==== Nambor – Doigrung Wildlife Sanctuary ====
Nambor – Doigrung Wildlife Sanctuary, spreading across 97 square kilometres (37 sq mi) in 3 blocks, it is located in Morangi, Golaghat, and a popular spot for hot water spring and wildlife viewpoints for spotting Rhinos and other animals.


=== Walking ===


==== Dhansiri river bank ====
A walk down the Dhansiri bridge towards the river offers a very beautiful sight. It is a popular picnic spot for the citizens of Golaghat and others alike.


==== Jamuna boating park ====
A public boating park within the city with slow-boating facility for the citizens and tourists. It also has a jogging track with swings and dedicated playing area for children.


==== Jamuna botanical reserve ====
A reserved area adjacent to the boating park for the conservation of flora and fauna plantations. It is not open for public boating and has a recorded history of rich and exotic species of biological plant and animal species.


==== Japixôjia lake ====
The lake is about 30 minutes drive from central Golaghat and is a scenic spot with lush tea gardens lining the borders of the vast expanses of water. Visited by many migratory birds, it is also home to various all-seasons birds.


=== Melamora Eco Tea Tourism ===
Melamora Eco Tea Tourism is located about 15 km from Golaghat Town. Melamora tea tourism centre is covered by green surroundings and is covered by hundred bighas of land. It has a children park with various recreational activities and is a place for various migratory birds. Melamora beel has boating facility and is being managed by women of the locality.


== Sport ==
Golaghat has hosted many national and regional sports events including major tennis tournaments, and is the only place in Assam to have Sports Authority of India – Sports Training Centre (STC) after Guwahati. 

Golaghat District Sports Association (GDSA) is the highest sport governing body in the city and the greater district for promoting, mentoring, monitoring, regulating and organising all sporting events. It has many affiliated sub-associations and clubs.
Stadium: equipped with a cricket pitch, basketball court, two boxing rings, and a football ground, having galleries with a sitting capacity of 4000 people, besides a twin-crease indoor cricket practice stadium built with materials imported from Australia.
Indoor stadium: a table tennis and badminton indoor stadium with modern amenities.
Swimming club: a training pool for all age groups to learn and purse the sport of swimming.
Boxing club: one of the main centres for boxing events in the city.
Golaghat Tennis Club (GTC): one of the oldest sport clubs in Assam, having qualified coaches, supported with modern infrastructure facilities, including floodlight. It has two courts, one at its premises, and the other at the Kushal Konwar Memorial Trust complex. The club has been organising championships and other AITA tournaments regularly since 1987.
Golaghat District Carrom Association (GDCA): the platform for the carrom players of the district.
Golaghat Rhino FC: a locally based professional football club competing in the Assam State Premier League, the top division state football.


== Politics ==
The politics of Golaghat forms the major part of the wider politics of Assam. Golaghat was, and still is, an area of political and geographical importance and continues to provide the resources and the environment with the dignity and the political self-consciousness appropriate to a state capital.


=== Formation of AGP ===

Golaghat is the birthplace of Assamese Political Renaissance, where the historic Golaghat Convention led to the formation of Assam's first major political party – AGP (Assam Gana Parishad).
AGP was a result of six-year's Assam Movement against illegal infiltration of foreigners from Bangladesh into Assam, led by All Assam Students Union (AASU). The long agitation ended with the signing of the Assam Accord on the independence day in 1985. The leaders of the Assam Agitation formed the AGP on 14 October 1985, in Golaghat and the party later that year overthrew the Indian National Congress led by late Hiteswar Saikia.
Golaghat is a part of Kaliabor (Lok Sabha constituency). BJP's Ajanta Neog is the current MLA of Golaghat (Vidhan Sabha constituency).


== Notable people ==


== Gallery ==


== See also ==


== Notes ==


=== Bibliography ===
Ward, S. R. (2010) [First published 1884]. A Glimpse of Assam. Calcutta: City Press: Thomas S. Smith. pp. 24, 25, 67, 74. ISBN 978-1-14-568011-1.
Sharma, Anil Kumar (2007). Quit India Movement In Assam. New Delhi: Mittal Publications. ISBN 978-8-18-324242-4.
Swati, Mitra (2011). Assam Travel Guide. Goodearth Publications. p. 106. ISBN 978-9-38-026204-8.


== References ==


== External links ==


=== Government ===

Golaghat District Official Website Archived 21 April 2025 at the Wayback Machine
Government of Assam – Golaghat
Golaghat Higher Judiciary
Bar Association of Golaghat

Yalıntaş  (formerly: Mineviz) is a neighbourhood of the municipality and district of Mustafakemalpaşa, Bursa Province, Turkey. Its population is 6,193 (2022). Before the 2013 reorganisation, it was a town (belde). It is almost merged to Mustafakemalpaşa.


== History ==
Yalıntaş was a colony of the Republic of Genoa in the Middle Ages, famed for its high quality kaolinite. After Italians left the settlement, the town became a Greek town both during the Byzantine and the Ottoman periods. After the population exchange between Greece and Turkey agreement in 1923, Greeks were replaced by Turks. In 1996, the settlement was declared a seat of township.


== Economy ==
The economy of the town depends on agriculture. There are also sand quarries around the town.


== References ==

Piazzolla is a crater on Mercury.  Its name was adopted by the International Astronomical Union (IAU) on August 13, 2024, for the Argentine tango composer and bandoneon player Astor Piazzolla, who lived from 1921 to 1992.
Piazzolla lies within Borealis Planitia.  It is north of Canova and Kyōsai craters and south of Sousa.


== References ==

Chabrey (French pronunciation: [ʃabʁɛ]) is a former municipality in the district of Broye-Vully in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland.
The municipalities of Bellerive, Chabrey, Constantine, Montmagny, Mur, Vallamand and Villars-le-Grand merged on 1 July 2011 into the new municipality of Vully-les-Lacs.


== History ==
Chabrey is first mentioned in 1343 as Charbrey.


== Geography ==
Chabrey has an area, as of 2009, of 3.96 square kilometers (1.53 sq mi). Of this area, 1.73 km2 (0.67 sq mi) or 43.7% is used for agricultural purposes, while 1.44 km2 (0.56 sq mi) or 36.4% is forested. Of the rest of the land, 0.3 km2 (0.12 sq mi) or 7.6% is settled (buildings or roads), 0.02 km2 (4.9 acres) or 0.5% is either rivers or lakes and 0.45 km2 (0.17 sq mi) or 11.4% is unproductive land.
Of the built up area, housing and buildings made up 4.3% and transportation infrastructure made up 2.8%. Out of the forested land, all of the forested land area is covered with heavy forests. Of the agricultural land, 36.1% is used for growing crops and 4.5% is pastures, while 3.0% is used for orchards or vine crops. All the water in the municipality is in lakes.
The municipality was part of the Avenches District until it was dissolved on 31 August 2006, and Chabrey became part of the new district of Broye-Vully.
The municipality is located along the shore of Lake Neuchâtel.


== Coat of arms ==
The blazon of the municipal coat of arms is Gules, on a bend Argent an badger proper.


== Demographics ==
Chabrey has a population (as of 2009) of 267.  As of 2008, 7.3% of the population are resident foreign nationals.  Over the last 10 years (1999–2009 ) the population has changed at a rate of 32.2%. It has changed at a rate of 33.7% due to migration and at a rate of 0% due to births and deaths.
Most of the population (as of 2000) speaks French (171 or 86.4%), with German being second most common (23 or 11.6%) and Portuguese being third (2 or 1.0%).
Of the population in the municipality 76 or about 38.4% were born in Chabrey and lived there in 2000. There were 30 or 15.2% who were born in the same canton, while 70 or 35.4% were born somewhere else in Switzerland, and 19 or 9.6% were born outside of Switzerland.
In 2008 there was 1 live birth to Swiss citizens and were 2 deaths of Swiss citizens. Ignoring immigration and emigration, the population of Swiss citizens decreased by 1 while the foreign population remained the same. The total Swiss population change in 2008 (from all sources, including moves across municipal borders) was an increase of 17 and the non-Swiss population increased by 4 people. This represents a population growth rate of 8.8%.
The age distribution, as of 2009, in Chabrey is; 29 children or 10.9% of the population are between 0 and 9 years old and 33 teenagers or 12.4% are between 10 and 19. Of the adult population, 25 people or 9.4% of the population are between 20 and 29 years old. 44 people or 16.5% are between 30 and 39, 43 people or 16.1% are between 40 and 49, and 44 people or 16.5% are between 50 and 59. The senior population distribution is 25 people or 9.4% of the population are between 60 and 69 years old, 14 people or 5.2% are between 70 and 79 years old, 9 people or 3.4% are 80 and 89, and 1 person who is 90 and older.
As of 2000, there were 83 people who were single and never married in the municipality. There were 91 married individuals, 15 widows or widowers and 9 individuals who are divorced.
As of 2000 the average number of residents per living room was 0.58 which is about equal to the cantonal average of 0.61 per room.  In this case, a room is defined as space of a housing unit of at least 4 m2 (43 sq ft) as normal bedrooms, dining rooms, living rooms, kitchens and habitable cellars and attics.  About 61.5% of the total households were owner occupied, or in other words did not pay rent (though they may have a mortgage or a rent-to-own agreement).
As of 2000, there were 81 private households in the municipality, and an average of 2.4 persons per household.  There were 28 households that consist of only one person and 10 households with five or more people. Out of a total of 82 households that answered this question, 34.1% were households made up of just one person. Of the rest of the households, there are 19 married couples without children, 29 married couples with children There were 2 single parents with a child or children. There were 3 households that were made up of unrelated people and 1 household that was made up of some sort of institution or another collective housing.
In 2000 there were 50 single family homes (or 65.8% of the total) out of a total of 76 inhabited buildings. There were 9 multi-family buildings (11.8%), along with 14 multi-purpose buildings that were mostly used for housing (18.4%) and 3 other use buildings (commercial or industrial) that also had some housing (3.9%). Of the single family homes 20 were built before 1919, while 7 were built between 1990 and 2000. The most multi-family homes (3) were built between 1946 and 1960 and the next most (2) were built before 1919. There was 1 multi-family house built between 1996 and 2000.
In 2000 there were 101 apartments in the municipality. The most common apartment size was 4 rooms of which there were 27. There were 5 single room apartments and 39 apartments with five or more rooms. Of these apartments, a total of 78 apartments (77.2% of the total) were permanently occupied, while 19 apartments (18.8%) were seasonally occupied and 4 apartments (4.0%) were empty.  As of 2009, the construction rate of new housing units was 11.2 new units per 1000 residents.  The vacancy rate for the municipality, in 2010, was 0%.
The historical population is given in the following chart:


== World heritage site ==
The prehistoric settlement at Pointe de Montbec I is part of the Prehistoric Pile dwellings around the Alps a UNESCO World Heritage Site.


== Politics ==
In the 2007 federal election the most popular party was the SVP which received 41.74% of the vote. The next three most popular parties were the SP (23.46%), the FDP (11.69%) and the Green Party (6.94%). In the federal election, a total of 66 votes were cast, and the voter turnout was 38.8%.


== Economy ==
As of  2010, Chabrey had an unemployment rate of 5.4%.  As of 2008, there were 17 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 7 businesses involved in this sector. 5 people were employed in the secondary sector and there were 3 businesses in this sector. 21 people were employed in the tertiary sector, with 12 businesses in this sector.  There were 96 residents of the municipality who were employed in some capacity, of which females made up 43.8% of the workforce.
In 2008 the total number of full-time equivalent jobs was 32. The number of jobs in the primary sector was 11, all of which were in agriculture. The number of jobs in the secondary sector was 4 of which 1 was in manufacturing and 3 (75.0%) were in construction. The number of jobs in the tertiary sector was 17. In the tertiary sector; 8 or 47.1% were in the sale or repair of motor vehicles, 2 or 11.8% were in a hotel or restaurant, 5 or 29.4% were technical professionals or scientists.
In 2000, there were 9 workers who commuted into the municipality and 56 workers who commuted away. The municipality is a net exporter of workers, with about 6.2 workers leaving the municipality for every one entering.  Of the working population, 8.3% used public transportation to get to work, and 57.3% used a private car.


== Religion ==
From the 2000 census, 32 or 16.2% were Roman Catholic, while 131 or 66.2% belonged to the Swiss Reformed Church. Of the rest of the population, there was 1 individual who belongs to the Christian Catholic Church, and there were 9 individuals (or about 4.55% of the population) who belonged to another Christian church. 21 (or about 10.61% of the population) belonged to no church, are agnostic or atheist, and 3 individuals (or about 1.52% of the population) did not answer the question.


== Education ==
In Chabrey about 65 or (32.8%) of the population have completed non-mandatory upper secondary education, and 15 or (7.6%) have completed additional higher education (either University or a Fachhochschule). Of the 15 who completed tertiary schooling, 60.0% were Swiss men, 33.3% were Swiss women.
In the 2009/2010 school year there were a total of 37 students in the Chabrey school district. In the Vaud cantonal school system, two years of non-obligatory pre-school are provided by the political districts.  During the school year, the political district provided pre-school care for a total of 155 children of which 83 children (53.5%) received subsidized pre-school care. The canton's primary school program requires students to attend for four years. There were 19 students in the municipal primary school program. The obligatory lower secondary school program lasts for six years and there were 18 students in those schools.
As of 2000, there were 32 students from Chabrey who attended schools outside the municipality.


== References ==


== External links ==

Site of the municipality of Chabrey

Omega Sagittarii, which is Latinized from ω Sagittarii, is a binary star system in the constellation of Sagittarius, near the eastern constellation border with Capricornus. It is formally named Terebellum . This system has a yellow hue and is faintly visible to the naked eye with an apparent visual magnitude of 4.70. It is located at a distance of 76 light years away from the Sun based on parallax, and is drifting closer with a radial velocity of −16 km/s. The position of this star near the ecliptic means it is subject to lunar occultations.
The members of this system orbit each other with a period of 4.6892 yr and an eccentricity of 0.82. The visible component is a G-type subgiant star with a stellar classification of G5 IV. It is three billion years old and is spinning with a projected rotational velocity of 5.6 km/s. The star is radiating seven times the luminosity of the Sun from its photosphere at an effective temperature of 5,499 K.


== Nomenclature ==

ω Sagittarii (Latinised to Omega Sagittarii) is the star's Bayer designation.
This star, together with 60, 62 and 59 Sagittarii, formed the asterism called "Terebellum". According to a 1971 NASA memorandum, Terebellum was originally the title for four stars: Omega Sagittarii as Terebellum I, 59 Sagittarii as Terebellum II, 60 Sagittarii as Terebellum III and 62 Sagittarii as Terebellum IV . In 2016, the IAU organized a Working Group on Star Names (WGSN) to catalog and standardize proper names for stars. The WGSN approved the name Terebellum for Omega Sagittarii on 5 September 2017 and it is now so included in the List of IAU-approved Star Names.
In Chinese, 狗國 (Gǒu Guó), meaning Dog Territory, refers to an asterism consisting of Omega Sagittarii, 60 Sagittarii, 62 Sagittarii and 59 Sagittarii. Consequently, the Chinese name for Omega Sagittarii itself is 狗國一 (Gǒu Guó yī, English: the First Star of Dog Territory.)


== References ==

House monotonicity (also called house-size monotonicity) is a property of apportionment methods. These are methods for allocating seats in a parliament among federal states (or among political parties). The property says that, if the number of seats in the "house" (the parliament) increases, and the method is re-activated, then no state (or party) should have fewer seats than it previously had. A method that fails to satisfy house-monotonicity is said to have the Alabama paradox.
In the context of committee elections, house monotonicity is often called committee monotonicity. It says that, if the size of the committee increases, then all the candidate that were previously elected, are still elected.
House monotonicity is the special case of resource monotonicity for the setting in which the resource consists of identical discrete items (the seats).


== Methods violating house-monotonicity ==
An example of a method violating house-monotonicity is the largest remainder method (= Hamilton's method). Consider the following instance with three states:

When one seat is added to the house, the share of state C decreases from 2 to 1.
This occurs because increasing the number of seats increases the fair share faster for the large states than for the small states. In particular, large A and B had their fair share increase faster than small C. Therefore, the fractional parts for A and B increased faster than those for C. In fact, they overtook C's fraction, causing C to lose its seat, since the method examines which states have the largest remaining fraction.
This violation is known as the Alabama paradox due to the history of its discovery. After the 1880 census, C. W. Seaton, chief clerk of the United States Census Bureau, computed apportionments for all House sizes between 275 and 350, and discovered  that Alabama would get eight seats with a House size of 299 but only seven with a House size of 300.


== Methods satisfying house-monotonicity ==


=== Methods for apportionment ===
All the highest-averages methods (= divisor methods) satisfy house monotonicity. This is easy to see when considering the implementation of divisor methods as picking sequences: when a seat is added, the only change is that the picking sequence is extended with one additional pick. Therefore, all states keep their previously picked seats. Similarly, rank-index methods, which are generalizations of divisor methods, satisfy house-monotonicity.
Moreover, capped divisor methods, which are variants of divisor methods in which a state never gets more seats than its upper quota, also satisfy house-monotonicity. An example is the Balinsky-Young quota method.
Every house-monotone method can be defined as a recursive function of the house size h. Formally, an apportionment method 
  
    
      
        M
        (
        
          t
        
        ,
        h
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle M(\mathbf {t} ,h)}
  
 is house-monotone and satisfies both quotas if-and-only-if it is constructed recursively as follows (see mathematics of apportionment for the definitions and notation):

  
    
      
        M
        (
        
          t
        
        ,
        0
        )
        =
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle M(\mathbf {t} ,0)=0}
  
;
If 
  
    
      
        M
        (
        
          t
        
        ,
        h
        )
        =
        
          a
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle M(\mathbf {t} ,h)=\mathbf {a} }
  
, then 
  
    
      
        M
        (
        
          t
        
        ,
        h
        +
        1
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle M(\mathbf {t} ,h+1)}
  
 is found by giving 
  
    
      
        
          a
          
            i
          
        
        +
        1
      
    
    {\displaystyle a_{i}+1}
  
 seats to some single state 
  
    
      
        i
        ∈
        U
        (
        
          t
        
        ,
        
          a
        
        )
        ∩
        L
        (
        
          t
        
        ,
        
          a
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle i\in U(\mathbf {t} ,\mathbf {a} )\cap L(\mathbf {t} ,\mathbf {a} )}
  
, where:

  
    
      
        U
        (
        
          t
        
        ,
        
          a
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle U(\mathbf {t} ,\mathbf {a} )}
  
 is the set of states that can get an additional seat without violating their upper quota for the new house size;

  
    
      
        L
        (
        
          t
        
        ,
        
          a
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle L(\mathbf {t} ,\mathbf {a} )}
  
 is the set of states that might receive less than their lower quota for some future house size.
Every coherent apportionment method is house-monotone.


=== Methods for multiwinner voting ===
The sequential Phragmen's voting rules, both for approval ballots and for ranked ballots, are committee-monotone. The same is true for Thiele's addition method and Thiele's elimination method. However, Thiele's optimization method is not committee-monotone.


== See also ==
Resource monotonicity - a generalization of house-monotonicity to possibly different items.
Monotonicity criterion - a different criterion, used for ranked voting systems.


== References ==

The Samford Bulldogs women's basketball team, formerly the Samford Lady Bulldogs, is the intercollegiate women's basketball program representing Samford University in Homewood, Alabama, United States. Since 2008, the team competes in the Southern Conference (SoCon), after leaving the Ohio Valley Conference (OVC). They play their home games at the Pete Hanna Center.


== Coaches ==
The Samford Bulldogs have had four coaches in their history. Until the end of the 2018–19 season, the team was coached by Mike Morris, who took over in 2002 for Janet Cone after she became Samford's associate athletics director. In 2019, Carley Kuhns was hired from Valdosta State University to become the third head coach in history. After Kuhns announced her resignation in April 2025, the Bulldogs promoted associate head coach Matt Wise to be the fourth head coach of the program.


=== Janet Cone coaching history ===


=== Mike Morris coaching history ===


=== Carley Kuhns coaching history ===

Source: 


== NCAA tournament results ==
The Bulldogs have appeared in three NCAA Tournaments, with a combined record of 0–3.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Scotty Grainger is a fictional character from the CBS soap opera The Young and the Restless. He was played by actor Blair Redford from July 2005 until January 2006. In January 2017, Soap Opera Digest announced that Daniel Hall had been recast in the role. In January 2018, Hall was written out of the show, he last aired on January 17.


== Storylines ==


=== 1991–94 ===
In 1989, Lauren Fenmore (Tracey E. Bregman) and Dr. Scott Grainger (Peter Barton) got married, but Sheila Carter (Kimberlin Brown) wanted Scott for herself. She drugged him in order to get herself pregnant, and she and Lauren were both pregnant by Scott at the same time. Scott then divorced Lauren out of obligation to Sheila. Then, Sheila miscarried, but she bought a baby off the black market, and she swapped the child with Lauren's newborn son. She "delivered" Scott Grainger Jr. in 1991, and Lauren raised Sheila's black market baby, Dylan, until he died from meningitis at the age of one year in 1992. Soon after, Sheila's mother, Molly Carter (Marilyn Alex), revealed the truth to Lauren and Scott. The couple were reunited with their son, and they got remarried in 1992. Unfortunately, Scott became terminally ill the same year, and he died shortly after. Lauren then moved to Los Angeles, and she took Scotty with her. Over the next few years, Lauren traveled the world. It was revealed during that time that Scotty spent his childhood in boarding school. Lauren returned to Genoa City in 2001 while Scotty was still in school.


=== 2005–06 ===
After her return, Lauren  married Michael Baldwin (Christian LeBlanc) in 2005. Michael soon quizzed Lauren about her rarely mentioned son, Scotty, hopeful that he would attend the wedding, and they could finally meet, but Lauren was evasive. After a failed internet search, Michael's half-brother, Kevin Fisher (Greg Rikaart), called Scotty from Lauren's cell phone, and they traced the boy to Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Michael went to Canada to meet his future stepson, now a 24-year-old college student, working on his master's degree in education with a specialty in creative writing. Scotty, using "Scott" professionally, disclosed that he had never been back to Genoa City since he was a toddler. Still, Lauren visited him often during his stays in boarding school. Scott had always wondered why his mother was so secretive, but he gave up asking a long time ago. Not long after Michael returned to Genoa City, Lauren decided to tell Scott about her impending marriage, but Scott admitted that he had already met Michael. Lauren felt betrayed by Michael, but he later reminded her about how she disliked his family secrets.
After Lauren left Scott's apartment, Sheila Carter walked out of Scott's bedroom. Sheila was taking college courses, and Scott, who looked just like his father, was her tutor. Sheila gave Scott an idea for a novel. Unknown to him, the story was of Sheila and his mother's past, but Sheila made Lauren out to be the evil-doer who stole Sheila's baby when it was really the other way around. Meanwhile, Michael discovered Lauren and Sheila's history, and he visited "Sheila" in a Californian prison for the criminally insane. This woman was not Sheila, but "Sugar" (also played by Kimberlin Brown), who had plastic surgery to look like Sheila. She escaped from prison for two months before turning herself in. Scott came to Genoa City for his mother's wedding and Sheila followed him there in disguise. She soon hooked up with Kevin Fisher's abusive father, "Terrible Tom" Fisher (Roscoe Born).
Not realizing that Sheila was intent on murder, Tom was conned into joining her plot to get back at Lauren by planting a bomb on Lauren and Michael's honeymoon yacht. Lauren was presumed dead, but Tom saved her in time. He kept Lauren and Sheila captive until Lauren convinced him that Sheila was evil. John Abbott (Jerry Douglas) discovered that Lauren was being held hostage, and in his attempt to rescue her, Tom was fatally shot in 2006. Lauren and Sheila worked together to escape from the bomb shelter that they were being held in. Sheila left town after the shelter caved in, and she was severely hurt. Luckily, Lauren came out unscathed, and she reunited with Scott and Michael. Scott decided to stay in Genoa City with his mother, but he soon faded into the background. Several months later in 2006, Lauren revealed that Scott moved back to Toronto.
In 2012, when Daisy Carter, Sheila's daughter, is freed from prison, Lauren feels extremely endangered. She is scared that Daisy will torture her and her family, so she decides to send Fenmore Baldwin, her son with Michael, to live with Scotty until the matter with Daisy is resolved.


=== 2017–18 ===
In July 2018, Scott published an article about the disappearance of J.T. Hellstrom who had been investigating Newman Enterprises for global price-fixing, accusing Victor of getting rid of J.T. and bringing up old suspicions of various enemies who had disappeared.


== References ==


== External links ==
Scotty Grainger profile - Soapcentral.com

Miki Matsuhashi (松橋 未樹, Matsuhashi Miki) (born August 10, 1983) is a Japanese former singer and songwriter who was active between 2000 and 2003. She achieved national recognition for singing the theme song to the Japanese anime series Case Closed, "Destiny".
Matsuhashi had a fairly brief career as an artist. She made indies debut in the summer of 2000, releasing first extended play Miki Matsuhashi. Her debut single, "Time Stands Still" was released in June 2001, and her debut studio album, Destiny, was released in less than a year later. In 2001, Matsuhashi released "Destiny", a cover of Ramjet Pulley as the second single from the album. The single became Matsuhashi's most successful single, reaching number 22 on the Oricon charts. The song was used as the opening theme song for the anime, Detective Conan, She had a few collaborations with other artists from Giza Studio label, including U-ka Saegusa. Matsuhashi has been on hiatus from the music scene since 2003. During her three-year career, Matsuhashi released one studio album, one extended plays and three singles.


== Discography ==


=== Albums ===


=== Extended plays ===


=== Singles ===


=== Songwriting credits ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website from Being (in Japanese)[1]

Félicien Henry Caignart de Saulcy (1832-1912) was  a  French entomologist specialising in Coleoptera. He was especially interested in the beetle fauna of caves. His collection of Scydmaenidae, Trechinae, Bathysciinae, Liodidae, Staphylinidae, Pselaphidae and Catopidae is in the Muséum national d'histoire naturelle, in Paris.  He died in Metz.


== Works ==
Saulcy, F.H.C. (1876). Species des Paussides, Clavigérides, Psélaphides & Scydménides de l'Europe et des pays circonvoisins. Bull. Soc. Hist. Nat. Metz 14: 25-100


== References ==
Constantin, R. 1992: Memorial des Coléopteristes Français. Bull. liaison Assoc. Col. reg. parisienne, Paris (Suppl. 14):1-92
Fleur, A. 1924: Bull. Soc. Hist. nat. Moselle (4) 6(30)117-166, Portrait.
Fleur, E. 1935: Bull. Cent. Soc. Hist. nat. Moselle (3) 10(34)60-61, Portrait.
Kheil, N. M. 1911: Int. Ent. Z. 5 1911-12,243-245.
Lhoste, J. 1987: Les entomologistes français. 1750 - 1950.  INRA (Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique), Paris, 1-355.

Donald McLeod (or Don / MacLeod, or Mcleod) may refer to:


== Politicians ==
Donald Friell McLeod (1810–1872), British Raj Lieutenant Governor of Punjab
Donald McLeod (Victorian state politician)  (1837–1923), member of the Victorian Legislative Assembly
Donald Buchanan McLeod (1865–1943), political figure in Nova Scotia, Canada
Donald McLeod (Minnesota politician) (1912–2009), American farmer, businessman, and politician
Don McLeod (politician) (1892–1963), Australian politician
Donald Macleod (politician) (1878–1957), politician from Alberta, Canada
Donald Norman McLeod (1848–1914), Australian pastoralist and politician
Donald R. MacLeod (1902–1976), Canadian politician in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly
"Big" Donnie MacLeod (1928–2003), Canadian politician


== Sportsmen ==
Don McLeod (1946–2015), Canadian ice hockey goaltender
Don Macleod (footballer) (1917–1999), Scottish footballer (Motherwell FC)
Donald McLeod (footballer) (1882–1917), Scottish footballer (Celtic FC, Middlesbrough FC, national team)
Donald MacLeod (cross-country skier) (born 1938), Canadian former cross-country skier
Donald MacLeod (New Zealand cricketer) (1932-2008), New Zealand cricketer
Donald McLeod (Trinidadian cricketer) (born 1963), Trinidadian cricketer
Don MacLeod (businessman) (born 1947), South African cricketer and businessman
Donnie McLeod (motorcyclist), participant in events such as the 1988 French motorcycle Grand Prix


== Military ==
Donald McLeod (Loyalist), British army officer in Battle of Moore's Creek Bridge
Donald McLeod (Upper Canada Rebellion) (1779–1879), figure in the Upper Canada Rebellion
Donald Kenneth McLeod (1885–1958), officer in the British Army


== Others ==
A. Donald Macleod (born 1938), church historian
Don McLeod (Aboriginal rights activist), Western Australian Aboriginal rights activist, see Pilbara#20th century
Donald Macleod (theologian) (1940–2023), Scottish theologian
Donald MacLeod (piper)  (1917–1982), Scottish pipe major
Donny MacLeod (1932–1984), Scottish TV presenter
Donald Macleod (surgeon), (born 1941), Scottish surgeon
Donald Macleod (radio presenter), BBC Radio 3 presenter, 1982-present; most notably for the programme Composer of the Week
Donald Macleod (physicist) (1887–1972), New Zealand molecular physicist

Mikhail Zhelobovskiy (Belarusian: Міхаіл Жэлабоўскі; born 8 May 1946) is a Belarusian former long-distance runner who competed in the 1968 Summer Olympics.


== References ==


== External links ==
Mikhail Zhelobovskiy at World Athletics
Mikhail Zhelobovskiy at Tilastopaja (registration required)
Mikhail Zhelobovskiy at Olympedia
Mikhail Zhelobovskiy at InterSportStats

Amberoid (foaled 1963 in Kentucky) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse best known for winning the 1966 American Classic, the Belmont Stakes.
Amberoid was conditioned for racing by future Hall of Fame trainer Lucien Laurin and ridden primarily by another future Hall of Fame inductee, Bill Boland. Going into the 1966 U.S. Triple Crown series, Amberoid won the Wood Memorial Stakes. He then finished seventh in the Kentucky Derby and third in the Preakness Stakes before winning the final leg of the Triple Crown, the Belmont Stakes.
When his racing career was over, Amberoid stood at stud in the United States from 1969 to 1973, after which he stood in Japan until he died on June 30, 1985.


== References ==

Amberoid's pedigree and partial racing stats
June 13, 1966 Sports Illustrated article on Amberoid's win in the Belmont Stakes[link removed]
Amberoid's profile at Classic Runners

Dugdale is a last name.
Dugdale may also refer to:

The Dugdale Centre, an arts centre in London, UK
Dugdale Field, a defunct stadium in Seattle, Washington, United States
Dugdale Glacier, Antarctica
Dugdale, Minnesota, an unincorporated community in Polk County, Minnesota, United States
PS Thomas Dugdale, British paddle steamer passenger vessel
Dugdale Society, English text publication society

Christopher Rush may refer to:

Christopher Rush (bishop) (1777–1873), African-American freed slave and bishop of the AME Zion Church
Christopher Rush (writer) (born 1944), Scottish fiction writer
Christopher Rush (illustrator) (1965–2016), American illustrator for Magic: The Gathering

Garsington Opera is an annual summer opera festival founded in 1989 by Leonard Ingrams. The Philharmonia Orchestra and The English Concert are its two resident orchestras. For 21 years it was held in the gardens of Ingrams's home at Garsington Manor in Oxfordshire. Since 2011 the festival is held in Wormsley Park, the home of the Getty family near Stokenchurch in Buckinghamshire, England. After Ingrams's death in 2005 Anthony Whitworth-Jones became its General Director until 2013 when Douglas Boyd became artistic director.


== Opera at Garsington ==
A characteristic feature of Garsington Opera's programming has been the combination of well known operas with discoveries of little known works. These have included the British premieres of Richard Strauss' Die ägyptische Helena, Rossini's La gazzetta and L'equivoco stravagante, and Vivaldi's L'incoronazione di Dario. The festival also gave the first British professional productions of Haydn's La vera costanza, Strauss' Die Liebe der Danae, Janáček's Šárka, and Tchaikovsky's Cherevichki.
Performances take place in the specially designed seasonal Opera Pavilion from within which it is possible to view the surrounding landscape. This maintains the link with the outside, a tradition at Garsington Opera. The performances begin in the early evening, allowing for a long dinner during the interval, similar to Glyndebourne Festival Opera, and evening dress is suggested. Operas are often performed in their original language with English surtitles. In 2017 the Philharmonia Orchestra became a resident orchestra at the Festival, playing for one production per season, with the Garsington Opera Orchestra continuing to play three productions per year. From 2020 the Philharmonia Orchestra and The English Concert became the two resident orchestras, sharing the four productions annually.


== History ==


=== Garsington Manor ===

In 1982, financier Leonard Ingrams (brother of Richard Ingrams, the founder of Private Eye) and his wife Rosalind bought Garsington Manor and soon realised the opportunities it offered for outdoor performance. The family became well known for organising this annual season of opera in the manor gardens.
Garsington Manor saw its opera first performance in 1989 when Opera 80 performed Le nozze di Figaro in aid of the Oxford Playhouse. The success of the performance led to the founding of Garsington Opera soon afterwards by Leonard Ingrams. In 1990, the company's first season comprised Mozart's Così fan tutte and the British premiere of Haydn's Orlando paladino. Ingrams asked the Guildhall Strings to play for his new company, and within a few years Garsington Opera had its own orchestra whose core remained the Guildhall Strings.
From 1993 Garsington Opera was staging three opera productions. As demand for the opera grew, a purpose-built raked seating structure for around 500 people was created by architect Robin Snell. The auditorium was noted for its natural acoustic and good sight-lines. The stage was partly covered by a PVC fabric canopy completed in 1995 but was open to the gardens behind. Each year at the end of the season the entire edifice was dismantled and the fabric returned to Architen Landrell, the canopy's designers, for maintenance and storage.
Ingrams also used the barn at Garsington Manor for an annual series of chamber music concerts. He installed into the barn the panelling from the old auditorium at Glyndebourne which was then being thrown out when the new auditorium at Glyndebourne was built. The barn was also used as the restaurant during the opera season, and opera guests could dine in it during the interval. The operas were performed on the stone loggia which overlooks the flower garden, designed and planted by Lady Ottoline Morrell when she owned the Manor during and after the First World War and entertained her famous Bloomsbury guests there e.g. T. S. Eliot, Virginia Woolf, Bertrand Russell, W. B. Yeats.
Sound-proofing screens were later erected around the theatre in response to complaints from a group of Garsington residents living near the Manor. In 1996, they won £1,000 compensation for noise disturbance caused by the operas. When the award was overturned on appeal, local resident Monica Waud led her neighbours in a civil disobedience campaign during the 1997 performance of Haydn's Le Pescatrici. The protesters simultaneously began cutting their lawns with electric lawnmowers and diesel tractors, trimming their hedges, and turning on their hoses. Car alarms were set off and as a grand finale a private plane piloted by Miss Waud's companion flew overhead. In 2001 the protesters tried unsuccessfully to use the Human Rights Act to block Garsington Opera performances, claiming that they denied them the right to the "peaceful enjoyment of their possessions". The South Oxfordshire environmental health service undertook in-house monitoring of opera performances in each season from 2000 through 2005, but on each occasion concluded that there was no statutory noise nuisance.
Leonard Ingrams died from a heart attack on 27 July 2005 at the age of 63. In November of that year, Garsington Opera announced that it would continue, following the appointment of Anthony Whitworth-Jones as General Director.  Rosalind Ingrams (Leonard's widow) became president. Anthony Whitworth-Jones had been General Director of the Glyndebourne Festival Opera from 1989 to 1998 and of the Dallas Opera from 2000 to 2002. Whitworth-Jones noted that "under Leonard Ingrams' passionate leadership, (it) has established a reputation for musical excellence, the presentation of some fascinating operatic rarities and the promotion of young singers.  I will try to uphold and develop this tradition". In 2006 Leonard's pre-planned and pre-cast repertoire was overseen by Anthony Whitworth-Jones during his first year as artistic director, and the company performed Rimsky-Korsakov's Mayskaja Noch, Donizetti's Don Pasquale, and Der Stein der Weisen (The Philosopher's Stone), a collaborative work by Emanuel Schikaneder, Mozart, and other members of Mozart's circle.  In 2007, the Metropolitan Opera in New York staged Garsington's production of Die agyptische Helena, which Leonard Ingrams had put on in 1997. In April 2008, when it became clear that the opera needed more space, the Ingrams family gave notice that the Manor would not be able to host performances after the 2010 season, although the family would continue its support for the company.


=== Wormsley Park ===
Garsington Opera announced in April 2010 that it had reached agreement with the Getty family to hold the opera festival at Wormsley Park. The company's new performing space is a 600-seat pavilion situated in the extraordinary surroundings of Wormsley. The first season at Wormsley Park saw the performance of Vivaldi's La verità in cimento in its British premiere, Mozart's The Magic Flute and Rossini's Il turco in Italia. The company is now financed by The Friends of Garsington Opera, corporate and private sponsorship, and the support of foundations.
The 2011 Garsington Opera Pavilion is used for the duration of the opera festival each year and designed by Robin Snell & Partners.


== Awards ==
The 2019 new production of Benjamin Britten's The Turn of the Screw, directed by Louisa Muller and designed by Christopher Oram, won the 2020 Royal Philharmonic Society Music Award for opera and music theatre.


== Notable performers ==
Amongst the notable singers who have performed with the company are Susan Chilcott (The Countess in Le nozze di Figaro, 1993 ) Susan Bullock (Helena in Die ägyptische Helena, 1997) Yvonne Kenny (Christine in Intermezzo, 2001) Matthew Rose (Osmin in Die Entführung aus dem Serail, 2013) Lesley Garrett (Despina in Così fan tutte, 2015) Toby Spence (Idomeneo in Idomeneo, 2016) Roderick Williams (Eugene Onegin in Eugene Onegin, 2016) and Miah Persson (Countess in Capriccio, 2018). Conductors include David Parry, Ivor Bolton, Jane Glover, Jac van Steen, Richard Farnes and the founder of Grange Park Opera, Wasfi Kani.


== Past productions ==
While several productions of operas in the standard repertory are given, those which are rarely given or are national premieres etc. are included here.


== See also ==
List of opera festivals
Country house opera


== References ==


== External links ==
Garsington Opera official website

Sibualbuali is a stratovolcano in northern Sumatra, Indonesia. It has two solfatara fields on the eastern flank. There is a rhyolitic-dacitic lava dome, erupted from the Toru-Asik fault.


== See also ==

List of volcanoes in Indonesia


== References ==

Peter R. Hofstätter (born 1913 in Vienna; died 1994 in Buxtehude) was an Austrian social psychologist whose books on group dynamics, social psychology and general psychology were widely read in the German-speaking countries from the 1960s to the 1980s.
The only child of Robert Matthias Hofstätter, M.D., a professor of gynecology at the University of Vienna, he studied physics and psychology in Vienna and received his doctoral degree for a dissertation on the development of Japanese and Korean children. A disciple of Egon Brunswik and Charlotte and Karl Bühler, he became the president of the Academic Association for Medical Schools and displayed a considerable interest in the applications of psychology. In this context, he enjoyed contacts with psychoanalysts including Alfred Adler and psychotherapists such as Viktor Frankl. His first published paper focused on psychoanalysis.
From 1937 to 1943, he served as an army psychologist initially in the Austrian Federal Army and after 1938 in the German Wehrmacht. Endorsing to various degrees the views of the National Socialists, he subsequently worked in the Reichsjustizministerium (Justice Ministry). Despite his former support for the National Socialist regime he was allowed to teach at the university in Graz beginning in 1947. From 1949 to 1956, he taught in the U.S. at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (M.I.T.) and the Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. In 1956 he returned to Germany to become the first German professor of social psychology at the College for Social Sciences in Wilhelmshaven. Beginning in 1959, he held the Lehrstuhl für Psychologie and served as department chair at the University of Hamburg, from which he retired in 1979.
In the 1950s to 1970s, Hofstätter was considered the most prominent social psychologist in the German-speaking countries. Publishing thirteen books focusing on methodology and social psychology, he helped German psychology to become reconnected to international psychology while moving it away from the more speculative and humanities-oriented approach favored by many German psychologists in the 1920s and 1930s. Publishing in 1957 the widely read Fischer-Lexikon Psychologie, as well as Gruppendynamik he was instrumental in "Americanizing" the field which as a consequence became much more empirically oriented. He also succeeded in integrating wide-ranging and historically informed perspectives into his approach to psychology. At the same time his activities as a columnist for the newspaper Hamburger Abendblatt and the weekly magazine Die Zeit made him nationally prominent but also involved him in a bitter controversy when he argued in favor of a general amnesty for German war criminals.


== Books ==
Die Psychologie der öffentlichen Meinung [The psychology of public opinion]. Vienna, Austria: Braumüller, 1949.
Psychologie [Psychology]. Frankfurt/M., Germany: S. Fischer Verlag, 1957.
Differentielle Psychologie [Differential psychology]. Stuttgart, Germany: Kröner, 1971.
Sozialpsychologie [Social psychology]. Berlin, Germany: de Gruyter, 1973. ISBN 3-11-004309-2
Quantitative Methoden der Psychologie I [Quantitative methods in psychology 1] (with Dirk Wendt). Heidelberg, Germany: Springer, 1974 ISBN 3-540-79602-9.
Individuum und Gesellschaft [Individual and society]. Berlin, Germany: Ullstein, 1984 ISBN 3-548-02955-8.
Gruppendynamik. Kritik der Massenpsychologie [Group dynamics: A criticism of mass psychology]. Hamburg, Germany 1957; Reinbek, Germany: Rowohlt, 1985 ISBN 3-499-55038-5.
Deutsche Wehrmachtpsychologie 1914 - 1945 [Psychology of the German Armed Forces 1914-1945]. Introduction by P. R. Hofstätter. Munich, Germany: Verlag für Wehrwissenschaften, 1985 ISBN 3-8219-0019-9 und 3821900164.
Bedingungen der Zufriedenheit [Conditions for contentment]. Zürich, Switzerland: Edition Interfrom, 1986 ISBN 3-7201-5192-1.
Persönlichkeitsforschung [Personality research]. Stuttgart, Germany: Kröner, 1991 ISBN 3-520-40302-1.
Einführung in die Sozialpsychologie [Introduction to social psychology]. Stuttgart, Germany: Kröner, 1990 ISBN 3-520-29505-9.


=== References ===

Eric Biefeld is a former U.S. soccer defender.  He played three seasons in the Western Soccer Alliance and one season in the American Professional Soccer League.  He also earned two caps with the U.S. national team in 1986.


== Youth and college ==
Biefeld, brother to U.S. women's national team defender Joy Fawcett (née Biefeld) grew up in Huntington Beach, California.  He played on the Edison High School boys' soccer team, later entering the teams Hall of Fame.  After graduating from Edison in 1983, Biefeld entered UCLA.  In his four seasons with the Bruins, he was a mainstay of the team's defense, earning 1985 and 1986 team defensive MVP recognition and second team All-American honors in 1986.  In 1985, the Bruins won the NCAA Men's Soccer Championship.


== Los Angeles Heat ==
In 1987, Biefeld signed with the expansion Los Angeles Heat of the Western Soccer Alliance (WSA).  He spent four seasons with the Heat.  In 1990, they played in the American Professional Soccer League which was created by the merger of the WSA and American Soccer League.  The Heat folded following the 1990 season.


== National team ==
In 1986, Biefeld was called up to the U.S. national team for the Miami Cup.  He earned two caps at the tournament.  In the first game, the U.S. played to a scoreless tie with Canada on February 5, 1986, and a 1–1 tie with Uruguay two days later.


== Post soccer career ==
Biefeld is currently a firefighter in La Mirada, California and plays on the Los Angeles County Firefighter soccer team.


== References ==

Enrico Carfagnini, O.F.M. (also known as Henry Carfagnini; 23 March 1823 – 2 December 1904) was an Italian Friar Minor and educator, who served as the Bishop of Harbour Grace, Newfoundland from 1870 to 1880. He was also Bishop of Gallipoli, Italy, from 1880 to 1898.
Cargagnini resigned his see in 1898 and was appointed the Titular archbishop of Cius.


== References ==
"Enrico Carfagnini". Dictionary of Canadian Biography (online ed.). University of Toronto Press. 1979–2016.
"Enrico Carfagnini". Catholic-Hierarchy.org. David M. Cheney.

Grabaciones Accidentales, SA (English: Accidental Recordings; often abbreviated to GASA) is a Spanish independent record label founded in 1981 by Paco Trinidad with members of the bands Esclarecidos and Décima Víctima. In addition to publishing albums by the founding members, the label was responsible for releases by other Spanish artists and the distribution of releases by some foreign artists.
Along with other labels founded around the same time, such as DRO Records, Grabaciones Accidentales is considered to be one of Spain's first independent record labels.


== History ==
Grabaciones Accidentales was established in Madrid in late 1981 by members of the bands Esclarecidos and Décima Víctima. Aviador Dro's label DRO Records, with which GASA would later collaborate, was also founded around this time. Music critic Diego Manrique announced the label's establishment in the December 1981 issue of Spain's Rock Espezial magazine, explaining that the label would sign artists for one release at a time (often a single) rather than making long-term contracts. GASA is one of Spain's earliest independent record labels.
As alternative rock became more popular in Spain, Grabaciones Accidentales and other small Spanish labels presented the opportunity for independent artists, especially those based in Madrid, to release music to a wider audience.
GASA's first releases, 7-inch EPs by founding artists Esclarecidos and Décima Víctima, were issued in March 1982. In that year, the label also released EPs by Los Coyotes and Derribos Arias. The following year, GASA continued to take on new artists. However, the collapse of its original distributor, Pancoca, which had also handled distribution for other independent labels such as DRO and Tres Cipreses, caused a crisis for the label. Grabaciones Accidentales began acting as a distributor for DRO to help alleviate pressures. It was absorbed into DRO in 1984. In 1993, struggling to meet increasing demand in an unstable market, DRO was acquired by Warner.


== Notable artists ==
The following Spanish artists released music through Grabaciones Accidentales:

Esclarecidos
Gabinete Caligari
Los Coyotes
Décima Víctima
Derribos Arias
Loquillo
Los Trogloditas
Duncan Dhu


== See also ==
List of record labels


== References ==

A garron or garran (from Scottish Gaelic: gearran) is a small, sturdy horse or pony. The term occurs in Scotland and Ireland and generally refers to an undersized beast.
In Scotland, a garron is one of the types of Highland pony.  It is the larger, heavier type, bred on the mainland. The Isles' kind of pony is generally smaller and slightly finer, but still within the standard of the Highland pony breed.  There is less difference today than there once was between these two types.
The word garron may also characterise a Highland cross of a Clydesdale horse with ponies. Farmers used such garrons, especially in the Highlands and Islands, where a full-sized Clydesdale would not have been as economical. These horses were valued for their hardiness and ability to work on slopes.
Highland deer-stalking estates kept garrons to bring the stags off the hill, as some still do, for tradition or where ATV access is not practicable.


== Mentions in literature ==
Garrons are mentioned several times in George R. R. Martin's fantasy series A Song of Ice and Fire. There, Garrons are used in cold mountainous areas, generally to the North near the Wall.
R. S. Surtees uses the word in the first chapter of Jorrocks′ Jaunts and Jollities.
Author Nigel Tranter frequently mentions Garrons in his novels about Scottish history, such as "Macbeth, the King."
In the Irish folktale "The Tailor and the Three Beasts," the tailor meets a garron along the way who asks the tailor: "Would you make me a hole... where I could go a' hiding whenever the people are for bringing me to the mill or the kiln".


== See also ==
Garrano, an ancient Portuguese variety of pony.


== References ==

I Can Hear Your Voice (Korean: 너의 목소리가 들려) is a 2013 South Korean television series starring Lee Bo-young, Lee Jong-suk, Yoon Sang-hyun, and Lee Da-hee. It aired on SBS from June 5 to August 1, 2013, on Wednesdays and Thursdays at 21:55 for 18 episodes.
Originally set for 16 episodes, due to its successful ratings, the series was extended by 2 episodes.


== Synopsis ==
After overcoming a difficult childhood, Jang Hye-sung (Lee Bo-young) becomes a public defender, but she is pragmatic, self-preserving, and jaded. Her life changes when she encounters Park Soo-ha (Lee Jong-suk), a high school senior with the supernatural ability to read other people's thoughts by looking into their eyes. Soo-ha gained his mind-reading ability when witnessing his father's murder ten years previously. His father's death had initially been dismissed as a car accident until Hye-sung, then a high school girl (Kim So-hyun), gave a decisive testimony in court despite the killer's threats (Jung Woong-in). Soo-ha has been searching for her ever since. As Hye-sung works with Soo-ha and a cop-turned-lawyer Gwan-woo (Yoon Sang-hyun), she gradually lets go of her pursuit of money and glory. Together, the unlikely team uses unconventional methods to solve their cases.


== Cast ==


=== Main ===
Lee Bo-young as Lawyer Jang Hye-sung
Kim So-hyun as 15-year-old Hye-sung
Smart and hardworking, Hye-sung was raised by a poor but loving mother. After being falsely accused of causing an incident involving fireworks, she gets expelled from high school. She bravely testifies on the witness stand, causing the murderer of Park Soo-ha's father to be convicted and imprisoned. But both experiences change her, and ten years later, Hye-sung is an apathetic public defender who doesn't care about her clients and only does her job for the salary.
Lee Jong-suk as Park Soo-ha
Goo Seung-hyun as 9-year-old Soo-ha
After witnessing his father's death (and almost getting killed himself), 9 year old Soo-ha gains the supernatural ability to read people's minds by looking at their eyes. When high school teenager Hye-sung testified in court to corroborate his testimony regarding the killer, he swore that he would always protect and guard her. He nurses a crush on her for a decade, but when he meets her again, he's dismayed to find her completely different from what he has expected.
Yoon Sang-hyun as Cha Gwan-woo
A cop who brings his idealism, empathy and attention to detail to his new job as a public defender. Though outwardly geeky and meek, he has a keen intelligence that sees new angles in his cases.
Lee Da-hee as Seo Do-yeon
Jung Min-ah as 15-year-old Do-yeon
A prosecutor who comes from a rich, well-connected family, with her father being a judge and her mother a doctor. Do-yeon has always pushed herself to become the perfect daughter to please her parents. She had a rivalry with Hye-sung in high school and when a fireworks accident nearly caused her to lose her eyesight, she blames Hye-sung for it, despite the latter's denials. Do-yeon was also a witness to the murder of Park Soo-ha's father, but at the last minute, she lost her courage and didn't testify.


=== Supporting ===
Jung Woong-in as Min Joon-gook, the murderer of Soo-ha's father, whom he had a grudge on. He was jailed for 10 years as a result of Hye-sung's testimony, which decisively led to him convicted of murder. After his release, he is bent on getting revenge on Hye-sung and Soo-ha for them getting him convicted of murder.
Yoon Joo-sang as Lawyer Shin Sang-deok
Choi Sung-joon as Choi Yoo-chang, clerk of the public defenders' office
Kim Kwang-kyu as Judge Kim Gong-sook
Kim Ga-eun as Go Sung-bin, Soo-ha's classmate
Park Doo-shik as Kim Choong-ki, Soo-ha's classmate
Kim Hae-sook as Eo Choon-shim, Hye-sung's mother
Kim Byeong-ok as Hwang Dal-joong, Joon-gook's cellmate
Jung Dong-hwan as Judge Seo Dae-seok, Do-yeon's father
Lee Jung-hyuk as Lee Jung-hoon
Jang Hee-soo as Do-yeon's mother
Jo Deok-hyeon as Park Joo-hyeok, Soo-ha's father
Kim Soo-yeon as Moon Dong-hee, Sung-bin's classmate who is an up-and-coming entertainer
Jang Hee-woong as Prosecutor Jo, nicknamed "Mr. Grass-like Hair"
Kim Hye-yoon as Kim Yun-jin (Ep. 1)


=== Special appearances ===


== Original soundtrack ==


=== Part 1 ===


=== Part 2 ===


=== Part 3 ===


=== Part 4 ===


=== Part 5 ===


== Ratings ==


== Awards and nominations ==


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website (in Korean)
I Can Hear Your Voice at HanCinema
I Can Hear Your Voice at IMDb

Balintore (Scottish Gaelic: Baile an Todhair) is a village in Angus, Scotland. It lies in Glen Isla, four miles north of the Loch of Lintrathen and seven miles west of Kirriemuir. Approximately half a mile to the east is Knowehead of Auldallan farm, where there can be found a pair of uninscribed standing stones.


== References ==

Los Planetas (The Planets) is a Spanish indie rock group from the city of Granada, formed in 1993. The group's first hit was "Qué puedo hacer" (What can I do?) from their album "Super 8", although they had previously achieved some success with various demos on a contest run by the Spanish national public radio station Radio 3.
After "Super 8" (1994 RCA-BMG Music Spain) the group produced albums which caught on quickly in the Spanish indie scene, including "Pop" (1996 RCA-BMG Music Spain), "Una semana en el motor de un autobús" (A week in the engine of a bus, 1998 RCA-BMG Music Spain), "Unidad de Desplazamiento" (Movement unit, 2000 RCA-BMG Music Spain), "Encuentro con entidades" (Encounter with entities, 2002 RCA-BMG Music Spain), "Los Planetas contra la ley la gravedad" (Los Planetas against the laws of gravity, 2004 RCA-BMG Music Spain), "La Leyenda del Espacio", and "Una Ópera Egipcia".
They have released two compilation albums: one including all of their singles and EPs in 1999, "Canciones para una orquesta química" (Songs for a chemical orchestra, 1999 RCA-BMG Music Spain), and a greatest hits album in 2009, "Principios básicos de astronomía" (Basic principles of astronomy, 2009 Octubre - Sony Music Entertainment).
Los Planetas are strongly influenced by English-language rock bands such as Joy Division and early-period Mercury Rev and are considered to be a key reference point in the world of Spanish Indie.
A notable influence from flamenco music is evident in their 2007 work ("La leyenda del espacio" (2007 RCA-Sony BMG), as well as in their latest albums "Una ópera egipcia" (2010, Octubre - Sony Music Entertainment) and "Zona temporalmente autónoma" (2017, El Ejército Rojo - El Volcán Música).


== Members ==
Juan Ramón Rodríguez Cervilla / J Rodríguez / J / Jota: vocals and guitar
Florentino Muñoz Lozano / Florent Muñoz / Florent: guitar
Ernesto Jiménez Linares / Eric Jiménez / Erik / Eric: drums
Esteban Fraile Maldonado / Banin Fraile / Banin: keyboards, guitars
Miguel López / Miguel: bass


== Discography ==


=== Albums ===

Super 8 (1994 RCA-BMG Ariola)
Pop (1996 RCA-BMG Ariola)
Una Semana en el Motor de un Autobús (1998 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Canciones para una orquesta química (compilation, May 1999 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Unidad de desplazamiento (Sep 2000 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Encuentros con entidades (2002 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Los Planetas contra la la ley de la gravedad (Jul 2004 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
La leyenda del espacio (2007 RCA-Sony BMG)
Principios básicos de astronomía (compilation, Jul 2009 Octubre - Sony Music Entertainment)
Una ópera egipcia (2010 Octubre - Sony Music Entertainment)
Zona temporalmente autónoma (2017 El Ejército Rojo - El Volcán Música)
Las canciones del agua (2022 El Ejército Rojo)


=== Singles ===

Medusa EP (1993 vinyl / 1996 cd Elefant Records)
Qué puedo hacer (1994 RCA-BMG Ariola)
Brigitte (1994 RCA-BMG Ariola)
Nuevas sensaciones EP (1995 RCA-BMG Ariola)
Himno Generacional No. 83 (1995 RCA-BMG Ariola)
David y Claudia (1996 RCA-BMG Ariola)
Punk (1996 RCA-BMG Ariola)
Segundo premio (1998 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Cumpleaños total (1998 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
La playa (1998 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
¡Dios existe! El rollo mesiánico de Los Planetas EP (1999 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Vas a verme por la tele (May 2000 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Un buen día (Aug 2000 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Santos que yo te pinte (Feb 2001 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Maniobra de evasión (2001 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Corrientes circulares en el tiempo (2002 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Pesadilla en el parque de atracciones (2002 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
El espíritu de la Navidad (2002 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
El artista madridista (2003 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Los Planetas se disuelven EP (2003 Cáñamo / RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Y además es impossible (2004 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
No ardieras (2004 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Alegrías del incendio (Mar 2007 RCA-Sony BMG)
Soy un pobre granaíno (colombiana) (2009, Octubre - Sony Music Entertainment) (only digital download)
Cuatro palos EP (2009 Octubre - Sony Music Entertainment)
No sé cómo te atreves (2010, Octubre - Sony Music Entertainment) (only digital download)
Dobles fatigas (2015, El Segell del Primavera)
Espíritu olímpico (2017, El Ejército Rojo)
Islamabad (2017, El Ejército Rojo)
Hierro y níquel 18 (2018, El Ejército Rojo)
Spotify Live (2018, El Ejército Rojo - Spotify)
Ijtihad (2018, El Ejército Rojo - El Volcán Música)
Santos que yo te pinte (en directo) (2019, El Ejército Rojo)
Eterna Lucha (Himno para el ascenso del Granada) (2019, El Ejército Rojo) (digital, featuring Lori Meyers, Grupo de Expertos Solynieve, Niño de Elche and Apartamentos Acapulco)
La nueva normalidad (2020, El Ejército Rojo) (digital)
Navidad en reserva (2020, El Ejército Rojo) (digital)
El negacionista (2021, El Ejército Rojo) (digital)
El rey de España (2021, El Ejército Rojo) (digital)
El antiplanetismo (2021, El Ejército Rojo) (digital)
Alegrías de Graná (2021, El Ejército Rojo) (digital)
Se quiere venir (2022, El Ejército Rojo) (digital)


=== Compilation Appearances ===
Screamin' & Shoutin' 2. A Live Compilation: "Where's Bill Grundy Now?" (Television Personalities cover) (1993 Subterfuge Records)
Navidades Furiosas: "Canción de Navidad" (1993 La Fábrica Magnética)
Gimme More of That Sound: "Where's Bill Grundy Now?" (Television Personalities cover) (1994 Spiral)
A Tribute To Felt: "Apple Boutique" (Felt cover) (1994 Elefant Records)
Warsaw: Un Homenaje a Joy Division: "Disorder" (Joy Division cover) (1995 El Colectivo Karma, now Green Ufos)
Maraworld 1.0: "Doctor Osmond (Para Remontarte Angélico)" (1996 Sala Maravillas)
21 Inéditos y Exclusivos: "Todos los Periódicos Mienten" (Una Semana en el Motor de un Autobús' outtake) (2002 Rockdelux magazine)
Un Soplo En El Corazón. Homenaje A Family: "El Mapa" (Family cover) (2003 Rockdelux)
Bambino, Por Ti y Por Nosotros: "Podría Volver" (Bambino cover) (2004 RCA-BMG Music Spain)
Viaje alrededor de Carlos Berlanga: "El verano más triste" (Carlos Berlanga cover) (El Volcán Música, 2010)
El alpinista de los sueños: Homenaje a Antonio Vega: "Quiero estar mejor" (Nacha Pop cover)(Universal, 2010)
PSM Festival: "Tormenta en la mañana de la vida" (La Buena Vida cover) (Rockdelux 2012)
El ombligo del mundo: "La torre de la vela" (091 cover) (Fundación Escuela de Solidaridad  2022)


=== Vinyl EPs / Singles ===
Medusa (1993 Elefant Records)
Nuevas sensaciones (1995 Subterfuge Records)
Himno generacional No. 83 (1996 Subterfuge Records. Coleccionistas "Mil copias")
David y Claudia (1996 Subterfuge Records. Coleccionistas "Mil copias")
Punk (1996 Subterfuge Records)
Su mapamundi, gracias (1997 Acuarela; split single with Sr. Chinarro)
Cuatro palos EP (2010 Octubre - Sony Music Entertainment)
Dobles fatigas (2015, El Segell del Primavera)
Espíritu olímpico (2017)
Islamabad (2017 Acuarela; split single with Yung Beef)
Hierro y níquel 18 (2018 El Ejército Rojo)
Ijtihad (2018 El Ejército Rojo)
Santos que yo te pinte (en directo) (2019 El Ejército Rojo)
La nueva normalidad (2021, El Ejército Rojo)
El rey de España (2021, El Ejército Rojo)
El antiplanetismo (2021, El Ejército Rojo)
Se quiere venir (2022, El Ejército Rojo)


== References ==

SRY-box 7 is a protein that in humans is encoded by the SOX7 gene.


== Function ==
This gene encodes a member of the SOX (SRY-related HMG-box) family of transcription factors involved in the regulation of embryonic development and in the determination of the cell fate. The encoded protein may act as a transcriptional regulator after forming a protein complex with other proteins. A similar protein in mice is involved in the regulation of the wingless-type MMTV integration site family (Wnt) pathway. [provided by RefSeq, Jul 2008].
SOX7 is a transcription factor that comes from the SRY-related HMG-Box family of transcription factors. These factors play a significant developmental role in regulating processes such as hematopoiesis, vasculogenesis, and cardiogenesis during the development of the embryo. Additionally, SOX7 is unique as it has been shown to also have tumor-suppressive effects, and downregulation of this gene has been seen in many forms of cancer. SOX7 as well as SOX17 and SOX18 have been known to work together to play a significant role in cardiovascular development, but continued research continues to identify SOX7 as playing a significant role in cancerous tumor suppression.
A homozygous deletion of the second exon in SOX7 was embryonically lethal, and a heterozygous deletion resulted in a congenital diaphragmatic hernia forming.


== Clinical significance ==
The protein may play a role in tumorigenesis. 


== References ==


== Further reading ==

This article incorporates text from the United States National Library of Medicine, which is in the public domain.

Abraham Alexander Ribicoff (April 9, 1910 – February 22, 1998) was an American politician from the U.S. state of Connecticut. A member of the Democratic Party, he represented Connecticut in the United States House of Representatives and Senate and was the 80th governor of Connecticut and secretary of health, education, and welfare in President John F. Kennedy's cabinet. He was Connecticut's first and to date only Jewish governor.


== Early life ==
Abraham Alexander Ribicoff was born on April 9, 1910, in New Britain, Connecticut, to Ashkenazi Jewish immigrants from Poland, Samuel Ribicoff, a factory worker, and Rose Sable Ribicoff. He had a brother named Irving. He graduated from New Britain Senior High School. Ribicoff's relatively poor parents valued education and insisted that all his earnings from part-time boyhood jobs go toward his future schooling. After high school, he worked for a year at a nearby zipper factory of the G. E. Prentice Company to earn additional funds for college. Ribicoff enrolled at New York University in 1928, then transferred to the University of Chicago after the Prentice Company made him the Chicago office manager. While in Chicago, Ribicoff coped with school and work schedules and was permitted to enter the university's law school before finishing his bachelor's degree. Still a student, he married Ruth Siegel on June 28, 1931; they had two children. Ribicoff served as editor of the University of Chicago Law Review in his third year and received an LLB cum laude in 1933, being admitted to the Connecticut bar the same year. After practicing law in the office of a Hartford lawyer, Ribicoff set up his practice, first in Kensington and later in Hartford.


== Early political career ==
Having become interested in politics, Ribicoff began as a member of the Connecticut House of Representatives, serving in that body from 1938 to 1942. From 1941 to 1943, and again from 1945 to 1947, he was the judge of Hartford Police Court. During his political career, Ribicoff was a protégé of John Moran Bailey, the powerful chairman of the Democratic Party of Connecticut.


=== U.S. Representative ===
Ribicoff was elected as a Democrat to the 81st and 82nd Congresses, serving from 1949 to 1953. During that time, he served on the Foreign Affairs Committee, a position usually reserved for members with more seniority, and was a mostly loyal supporter of the foreign and domestic policies of President Harry S. Truman's administration. Generally liberal in his outlook, he surprised many by opposing a $32 million appropriation for the construction of a dam in Enfield, Connecticut, arguing that the money was better spent on military needs and foreign policy initiatives such as the Marshall Plan.
In 1952, he made an unsuccessful bid for election to fill a vacancy in the United States Senate, losing to Prescott Bush.


=== Governor of Connecticut ===

After returning to his legal practice for two years, he ran for governor against incumbent Republican John Davis Lodge, winning the election with 49.5% and by just over three thousand votes. As governor (1955–1961), Ribicoff soon faced the challenge of rebuilding his state in the wake of devastating floods that occurred in the late summer and fall of 1955, and he successfully led bipartisan efforts to aid damaged areas. Ribicoff then successfully argued for increased state spending on schools and welfare programs. He also supported an amendment to the state constitution that enhanced the governing powers of local municipalities. Easily reelected in 1958, Ribicoff had by now become active on the national political scene. A longtime friend of Massachusetts Senator John F. Kennedy, Ribicoff had nominated his fellow New Englander for vice president at the 1956 Democratic National Convention and was one of the first public officials to endorse Kennedy's presidential campaign.


=== Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare ===
When Kennedy became president in 1961, he offered Ribicoff his choice of cabinet posts in the new administration. He reportedly declined the position of attorney general for fear that he might create needless controversy within the emerging Civil Rights Movement because he was Jewish, and he instead chose to be secretary of health, education, and welfare (HEW). Although he managed to secure a revision of the 1935 Social Security Act that liberalized requirements for Aid to Dependent Children, Ribicoff was unable to gain approval for the administration's Medicare and school aid bills. Eventually, he tired of attempting to manage the department, whose very size made it, in his opinion, unmanageable.
Ribicoff reflected that he had sought out the position of HEW Secretary mainly out of concern for education and "realized that the problems of health and welfare were so overriding that education was relegated to the back burner" during his tenure.


== United States Senate ==
He was finally elected to the United States Senate in 1962, replacing retiring incumbent Prescott Bush by defeating Republican nominee Horace Seely-Brown with 51% of the vote. He served in the Senate from January 3, 1963, until January 3, 1981.
Lyndon B. Johnson succeeded Kennedy as president when the latter was assassinated in 1963. Ribicoff supported Johnson at first but eventually turned against the Vietnam War and the president's management of it, believing that it drained badly needed resources away from domestic programs.

Ribicoff allied with consumer advocate Ralph Nader in creating the Motor Vehicle Highway Safety Act of 1966, which created the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. The agency was responsible for many new safety standards on cars. These standards were questionable because up until then, the emphasis had always been put on the driver. In response, Ribicoff stated that:The driver has many faults. He is negligent; he is careless; he is reckless. We understand that... I think it will be the millennium if you will ever get a situation where the millions and millions of drivers will all be perfect. They will always be making errors and making mistakes.
At the 1968 Democratic National Convention, during a speech nominating George McGovern, his senatorial colleague from South Dakota, he went off-script, saying, "And with George McGovern as President of the United States, we wouldn't have to have Gestapo tactics in the streets of Chicago." Many conventioneers, having been appalled by the response of the Chicago police to the ongoing anti-war demonstrations, broke into applause. Television cameras focused on the indignant reaction of Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley. Ribicoff spent the remaining years of his Senate career fighting for such issues as school integration, welfare and tax reform, and consumer protection.
During the 1972 Democratic National Convention, presidential nominee George McGovern offered Ribicoff the Democratic vice-presidential nomination, but he declined and it eventually went to Senator Thomas Eagleton. After Eagleton withdrew, McGovern asked Ribicoff (among others) to take Eagleton's place. He again refused, publicly stating that he had no ambitions for higher office. McGovern eventually chose Sargent Shriver as his running mate. Later in 1972, following the death of his wife, Ribicoff married Lois Mell Mathes, who became known as "Casey".
During his time in the Senate, Ribicoff was chairman of the United States Senate Committee on Government Operations (94th and 95th Congresses) and its successor committee, the U.S. Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs (95th and 96th Congresses).
Future U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman worked in Ribicoff's Senate office as a summer intern and met his first wife, Betty Haas, there.
In 1978, Ribicoff's niece Gail Rubin was shot and killed in the Coastal Road massacre in Israel by Palestinian terrorists. Ribicoff denounced her killing as "an indefensible act of terrorism that deserves universal condemnation." In 1980, Ribicoff's niece Sarai Ribicoff, a reporter for the Herald Examiner, was shot and killed during a robbery in Venice, California.
On May 3, 1979, Ribicoff announced his intention to retire at the end of his third term. President Jimmy Carter released a statement crediting Ribicoff with having "compiled a distinguished career of public service that can serve as a model of decency, compassion, and ability."


== Later life ==
In 1981, Ribicoff fulfilled his pledge to retire from the Senate and took a position as special counsel in the New York law firm of Kaye Scholer LLP and divided his time between homes in Cornwall Bridge, Connecticut, and New York. He was co-chairman of the 1988 Base Realignment and Closure Commission.
Having suffered in his later years from the effects of Alzheimer's disease, he died in 1998 at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale in The Bronx, New York City, and is interred at Cornwall Cemetery in Cornwall, Connecticut.


== See also ==
List of Jewish members of the United States Congress
List of Jewish United States Cabinet members


== References ==


== Further reading ==

Ribicoff, Abraham in American National Biography, American Council of Learned Societies, 2000.


== External links ==

United States Congress. "Abraham Ribicoff (id: R000191)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress.
Abraham Alexander Ribicoff entry at the National Governors Association
Abraham Alexander Ribicoff entry at the Political Graveyard
Kaye Scholer LLP website
"Abraham Ribicoff, 87, Dies," The Washington Post, 23 Feb 1998, p. D06.
Speech by Abraham Ribicoff given on November 3, 1969. Audio recording, from The University of Alabama's Emphasis Symposium on Contemporary Issues
Appearances on C-SPAN

Adrian College is a private United Methodist liberal arts college in Adrian, Michigan.  The college offers bachelor's degrees in 92 academic majors and programs. The 100 acre (0.40 km2) campus contains newly constructed facilities along with historic buildings. Adrian College is affiliated with the United Methodist Church and is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission. The spring 2020–21 enrollment was 1,677 students.


== History ==
The college has its origin as a theological institute founded by Wesleyan Methodists at Leoni, Michigan, in 1845. This institution merged with Leoni Seminary, another Methodist school, in 1855 to form Michigan Union College. In 1859, that institution closed and its assets were transferred to Adrian "through the efforts of the antislavery leader and educator, Rev. Asa Mahan, who was elected first president of the new Adrian College". The college was chartered by the Michigan Legislature on March 28, 1859. In the early stages of the Civil War the college volunteered itself as a base for the formation of Michigan regiments for the Union side.  The current Valade Hall building sits on the site of the former base camp for these soldiers.
A marker designating the college as a Michigan Historic Site was erected by the Michigan Historical Commission. The inscription reads:

Chartered on March 28, 1859, Adrian College traces its origins back to a Wesleyan Methodist theological institute founded at Leoni, Michigan in 1845. This institution later became Michigan Union College. Strongly antislavery in its sentiments, the school was moved to Adrian in 1859 through the efforts of the antislavery leader and educator, Rev. Asa Mahan, who was elected first president of the new Adrian College. The college was transferred to the Methodist Protestant Church in 1868, and here for 71 years, leaders of this denomination were trained. In 1939 a denominational union of American Methodism resulted in the establishment of the Methodist Church. Adrian College is affiliated with this great church body.
An additional marker commemorating Camp Williams and the Fourth Michigan Volunteer Infantry as a Michigan Historic Site was erected by the  Michigan Historical Commission. The inscriptions read:

Camp Williams
At the outbreak of the Civil War in early 1861, the trustees of Adrian College offered the use of campus buildings and grounds to the Fourth Michigan Volunteer Infantry for training. This became known as Camp Williams. The city of Adrian donated money to build a mess and dining hall. By early June ten companies of the Fourth had arrived and started their training. The 1,025 soldiers came from Adrian, Ann Arbor, Dexter, Jonesville, Hudson, Sturgis, Monroe, Hillsdale, Tecumseh, and Trenton. On June 21 nearly 30,000 people came to town to see the Fourth depart for Washington. The ladies of Adrian presented Colonel Dwight Woodbury with the regimental flag. Sewn into the flag was "The Ladies of Adrian to the Fourth regiment Defend It."
Fourth Michigan Volunteer Infantry

In spring 1861 the Fourth Michigan Volunteer Infantry departed Adrians' Camp Williams for service in the Civil War. The regiment was assigned to the Army of the Potomac and saw action in forty-one engagements, including Gaines Mills, Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville, and Petersburg. The Fourth was one of the few regiments to lose more men in battle than from disease. Out of 1,399 men, 307 died from May 1862 through June 1864. Three colonels died in battle defending their regimental flag: Dwight Woodbury, at Malvern Hill, Virginia; Harrison Jeffords in The Wheatfield at Gettysburg; and George Lumbard at The Wilderness, Virginia. In 1864 the reorganized Fourth trained here, at Camp Williams, once more.


== Campus ==

The original campus was built in the mid-19th century. It would be almost a century later that President John Dawson began a major construction phase of the campus, including most of the residence halls, academic buildings, a student union, and the administration building. More recently, current President Jeff Docking has introduced many plans to revitalize Adrian College and its campus, including the construction of new buildings, renovation of old ones, and programs related to athletics.
The college is making renovations and expansions to the Science, Business, Visual Arts, and Performing Arts departments.


== Academics ==
Adrian College offers over 90 majors and pre-professional programs.  It also offers six graduate programs using a unique 4+1 structure for current students.  Graduate programs exist in: Accounting, Athletic Training, Criminal Justice,  Industrial Chemistry, Teacher Education, and Sports Administration and Leadership. Its most popular majors, as of 2021 graduates, were:

Marketing/Marketing Management (35)
Sports & Fitness Administration/Management (30)
Biology/Biological Sciences (27)
Exercise Science & Kinesiology (25)
Business Administration & Management (23)
Over the past several years eight of the nine academic buildings were renovated, and fundraising is currently being undertaken on the final building, Mahan Hall for Art and Interior Design.  The following renovations have taken place since 2008: Rush Hall for Communication Arts, Goldsmith Hall for Modern Languages and Cultures, Spencer Hall for Music, Herrick Chapel, Jones Hall for Business and Humanities, Peelle Hall for Mathematics and Natural Science, Valade Hall for social sciences and humanities, and a historic renovation of the oldest building on campus, Downs Hall for theatre, built in 1860.


=== Institutes ===
Institutes are thematic centers focusing on areas of interest supporting the mission of Adrian College.  As of 2015, there are eight institutes including Career Planning, Creativity, Entrepreneurial Studies, Ethics, Health Studies, Romney Institute for Law and Public Policy, Study Abroad, Sports Medicine, and Teacher Education.  Each institute provides programming to students, faculty, staff, and wider community.


== Student activities ==


=== Athletics ===

Adrian College athletic teams, nicknamed the "Bulldogs", are part of the Michigan Intercollegiate Athletic Association and the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division III.  The men's NCAA Division III hockey team is a member of the Northern Collegiate Hockey Association. The men's volleyball team joined the Midwest Collegiate Volleyball League. Adrian College is the third college or university to offer women's hockey as a varsity sport in Michigan.  In 2011, the college reached an agreement with the federal Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights, resolving complaints that the college had violated Title IX. The college was found guilty of eleven violations of the law that governs gender equality, and agreed to make several changes to its athletic programs.  Adrian College offers the following varsity sports:


=== Sports sponsored ===
Adrian expanded its athletic programs in the 2007–2008 academic year to add NCAA Division III men's and women's ice hockey and men's Division I ACHA hockey along with synchronized skating and NCAA Division III men's and women's lacrosse. The Bulldog's lacrosse program is the first varsity program in MI since the induction of Title IX. Women's bowling was added for the 2008-2009 year. Later, it added men's and women's rowing in 2018.


==== Football ====

College football has been a part of the history of Adrian college since 1892, when Hillsdale College defeated Adrian by a score of 56–0.  The first head football coach on record was E. E. Tarr in 1903.  Since then, the program has won 16 conference championships, the first in 1911 and the most recent in 2012 and 2014. The head coach is Joe Palka who took over in 2024.


==== Men's ice hockey ====
The men's Division III team received national attention on the eve of Selection Sunday of the 2007–08 season on ESPN's "The Sports Reporters" as Mitch Albom, columnist from the Detroit Free Press, used his closing remarks to highlight the remarkable ride of the hockey team's season (their first at the NCAA level).  The team finished 26-3 and did not make the NCAA Division III Tournament. They would qualify for the NCAA National Tournament nine times before winning their first NCAA Div. III National Championship on March 26, 2022, in Lake Placid, New York.


==== Men's and women's rowing ====
Men's and women's rowing were added in 2017. In 2018, Adrian College's rowing programs joined the Mid-Atlantic Rowing Conference (MARC). In 2018, the program welcomed an inaugural freshman class of 25 rowers.


==== Intramural sports ====
Intramurals are part of Adrian College and the athletic department. Some of the intramural teams include Flag Football, 5-on-5 Basketball, Coed Volleyball League, Broomball, 7-on-7 Soccer, and 3-on-3 Basketball.


=== Fraternities and sororities ===
Greek life on campus includes several fraternities and sororities.


== Notable alumni ==
Lucien Baker, United States Senator from Kansas (1866)
Virgil Bernero, mayor of Lansing and the 2010 Democratic nominee for governor in Michigan (1986)
John E. Bird, member of the Michigan Supreme Court (1892)
Rube Kisinger, pitcher for the Detroit Tigers
James Laird, former Republican U.S. Representative of Nebraska's 2nd congressional district
Mike Lewis, defensive end for the Iowa Barnstormers of the Arena Football League (2006).
John Maulbetsch, College Football Hall of Fame member (1911)
Bessie Leach Priddy, educator, social reformer, clubwoman, and leader of the Delta Delta Delta women's fraternity (1891)
Mike Rogers, former Republican U.S. Representative of Michigan's 8th congressional district (1985)
Henry C. Smith, former Republican U.S. Representative of Michigan's 2nd congressional district (1878)


== See also ==
WVAC-FM
Arrington Ice Arena


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website 
Athletics website

Anders Talleraas (born 4 February 1946 in Brattvær Municipality) is a Norwegian politician for the Conservative Party.
He was elected to the Norwegian Parliament from Møre og Romsdal in 1977, and was re-elected on four occasions.
Talleraas was a member of the executive committee of the municipal council of Molde Municipality between 1975 and 1978. From 1998 he sat on the board of Romsdals Fellesbank, and was Chairman of Avinor from 2002 to 2006.
In 2012, Borgarting Court of Appeal found Talleraas guilty of through grave negligence unrightfully having received 2.6 million kr in pension from the Norwegian Parliament. He got a 6-month suspended sentence. The Supreme Court of Norway declined to hear his appeal in 2013.


== References ==

Oktonia is a hillside village found in the east-central area of Euboea Island, belonging to the municipality of Kymi-Aliveri, Greece. Located near the lower side of the Gulf of Kymi, the village is composed of four settlements: Alonia, Panochori (the upper village), Katochori (the lower village) and Panagia, covering a large area.  It is 145 km from Athens, a distance covered in about 2.5 hours by car.  
According to the census of 2021, the community of Oktonia, which also includes the villages Agios Merkourios and Mourteri, has 519 permanent inhabitants.


== History and origins ==
The area of Oktonia has been inhabited since antiquity. The geographer Strabon (64 or 63 BC-c. 24 AD) wrote about Ochalia, a settlement apparently in the same location according to many scholars. Research indicates that there was a temple dedicated to Chthonia Demetra, the goddess Demetra who was the protector of the earth (chthon), and more specifically, agriculture and agricultural production.
From a compilation of historical data and traditional legend, it appears that during the late Byzantine Period, there was a village in the shadow of Kallimani Mountain just east of today’s village of Choreftaria. Groups of herders also grazed their flocks in the surrounding area.  During this period, piracy was rampant; this village could not survive due to the fact that it was discernible to pirates from the sea.
According to tradition, one night during a festive gathering, when the watchtowers were unattended, pirates landed from the sea of Aili where their ships were moored. A woman who had perhaps learned of their plan, took her eight daughters and fled toward Kourvinou to escape the pirate raid. The rest of the villagers were captured and taken to the slave market in Anatolia. After some time, the mother and her daughters returned to the area but settled in a densely forested ravine at the foot of the mountain for protection from the pirates. Their initial settlement was on the site of present-day Panochori.  

Around AD 1420, a village was founded and named Oktonees and later Oktonia (okto is the Greek for eight), for the eight young girls (nees) who escaped the pirates and first settled it.  Development of this settlement over the years created present-day Oktonia.
The inhabitants of Oktonia come from many areas of Greece: the islands, the Peloponnese, central Greece, Epirus, Karistos, Chalkida, northern Evia, Constantinople and Asia Minor.
During the Turkish Occupation, the local population found comfort in religion from their suffering and humiliation, and there were four monasteries founded by the mid-16th century.  Today, from these monastery complexes only the churches survive: St. George at Koutsouro, the Taxiarches (Archangels) at Kotsikia, the Presentation of the Virgin at Papavlassa, and St. Demetrios of the Waterfall.
Of these churches, St. Demetrios of the Waterfall is most noteworthy because the monastery played a significant role in the years leading up to the revolutionary struggle of 1821. The church contains important examples of post-Byzantine painting.  In 1921, by Royal Decree this church became a Prominent Monument of the State.
During the 1821 Revolution, many people from the village fought and died to attain their freedom. The mountainous terrain favored the resistance and, because of its struggle against the Ottomans, Oktonia experienced battles, a siege on the castle (Kastro), torture and massacres. The abbot of the Monastery of St. Demetrios, Paisios, was put to death by impalement.
Oktoniates (people from Oktonia) also demonstrated their courage, patriotism and self-sacrifice during the subsequent National Liberation struggles including the Balkan Wars 1912-13, the Asia Minor Expedition and World War II.
The history of Oktonia during this period was turbulent. The villagers suffered, were attacked, taken into captivity, and many were killed, but they demonstrated resistance, bravery, sacrifice, heroism and a will to survive. As a result of these experiences, the people of Oktonia became industrious, inventive, resilient, progressive, and persistent in achieving their aims.


== Oktonia today ==

Today Oktonia is a large, charming village of both new and renovated old houses with traditional tile roofs. Modern conveniences combine with age-old traditions in all aspects of village life. From the architectural standpoint, Oktonia is characterized as an Interesting Settlement with important structural and town-plan elements. These same pleasing elements are also found in the coastal settlements of Mourteri and Agios Mercurios.
The village people are engaged in many occupations. They are farmers, stock-breeders, fishermen, beekeepers, masons, artisans, clerks, laborers, sailors and shopkeepers.
There are two parish churches and a community center. The village has a primary pchool, 5 x 5 football field, basketball court, cafes, grocery stores, butcher shops, pastry & bakery shops, tavernas, bars and restaurants to meet the needs of residents and visitors alike.
In addition to the Agricultural Cooperative, there are several other groups and associations in Oktonia:

The Association of Parents and Guardians of the Oktonia Primary School
The Youth Association of Oktonia
The Volunteer Fire Fighters of Oktonia
The Worldwide Association of Oktonia, Zoodochos Pigi, which publishes a newspaper, "The Voice of Oktonia", and operates a Literary Book Club.
These organizations cooperate and assist each other in promoting the general welfare of the people. Individually and collectively, they host a number of cultural, educational, recreational and sporting events, without abandoning the village traditions.


== Geography and natural environment ==


=== Geographical location ===
Oktonia covers an area of 34.2 km2 (13.2 sq mi). Below the Kallimani Mountain, which is still bare from the fires during Ottoman rule, the village lies amidst dense forest at an elevation of 400 meters. Oktonia overlooks the hill of Oksilithos, the plain, and neighboring villages and offers a splendid view of the Aegean Sea.


=== Climate ===
The climate of the village is mild, dry and healthy. Winter temperatures are not too cold and it is pleasantly cool in the summer due to the low humidity. The sea and land air are especially beneficial for people with respiratory conditions.


=== Agriculture, stock-breeding and fishing ===

Oktonia has a great deal of arable land and plenty of water, making it ideal for the cultivation of agricultural products. There are large olive groves and the primary products are olive oil and onions. The largest part of the village itself is in the midst of walnut and plane trees, among others.
Stock-breeding is widespread in Oktonia. Herds of goat and sheep graze the hills freely.
Finally, there are many opportunities for professionals and amateurs alike to fish the abundant seas in close proximity to the village. Beaches such as Bournia are frequented by local people and visitors.


== Interesting sites and leisure activities ==


=== Picturesque communities and their natural springs (fountains) ===
Scattered among the four settlements of the village are a number of ornate fountains, some old and others new, each with its own story. The best known are: Marinou, Sgourou, Skoura, Karvouniari and Mitsara in Panohori (upper village), and Voivonta in Alonia, Ambades in Panagia and Soor in Katohori (lower village).


=== St. Demetrios of the Waterfall ===

The church remains today an important religious, historic and artistic monument.  The monastery, which was located on the site, was a spiritual center inspiring freedom-fighters for the 1821 Revolution and also supplying the Greek Revolutionary ships that were in the sea of Markourio.  This role in the Revolution resulted in the capture of the abbot of the monastery, Paisios, who was put to death by impalement.
The church interior is completely covered with extraordinary post-Byzantine paintings (1600), which depict a wide variety of religious themes in original, colorful compositions.  It was deemed a Prominent Monument of the State by Royal Decree in 1921. As such, it took its place among the important Byzantine and post-Byzantine monuments of Greece such as the Monastery at Daphne and Osios Loukas.


=== Kastri and the historic castle (Kastro) ===

On the slopes of the mountain of Oktonia, Kallimani, is the area of Kastri, which took its name from the medieval castle (Kastro) located on the mountain. From the Kastro all the other medieval castles in the area were visible: the Castle of Dragoneras, the Tower of Kipon, etc. All of these castles were able to communicate among themselves by lighting torches on their towers. During the years leading up to the Revolution of 1821, the people of Oktonia took refuge in these fortresses against the attacks of the Turks who were under the leadership of the Pasha of Karistos, Ontabassin. Following a treasonous act, the castle was besieged and bombarded. The women and children fled to other areas, the aged and the weak were slaughtered and the fighters escaped to the mountains in order to organize their subsequent revolutionary actions. In retribution, the Turkish fighters burned the monastery of St. Demetrios and the entire area around Oktonia.
Inside the castle walls is the Church of the Transfiguration of the Savior (Metamorphoseos tou Sotiros). On this site people sacrificed their lives for the cause of freedom. It has become a place of pilgrimage; visitors come for prayer, giving thanks, and glorifying God. Beside the church is a well fed by a cistern which gathered rain water to meet the needs of the people when the castle was under siege. From the castle, visitors have a panoramic view of Oktonia and the villages of Kimi. The castle can be reached by car.
In close proximity to the Kastro, on the side of the mountain facing Oktonia, is a cave four meters deep with an entrance three meters high. The approach to the castle may also be made by following a footpath which begins at Gorthia, a little below the Voivonta Fountain.


=== Byzantine and post-Byzantine churches (15th and 16th centuries) ===

St. George at Koutsouro, the Taxiaches (Archangels) at Kotsikia, the Presentation of the Virgin at Papavlassa and St. John the Theologian at Karvouni are noteworthy churches in the area.


=== New churches ===
There are about seventeen new churches scattered in various locations in the area.  Of special interest among these churches are the historic church of Zoodochos Pigi in Tsouka and St. John the Baptist which is between Alonia and Panagia.


=== Beaches ===

Along the ten kilometer sea coast of Oktonia are the beaches of Mourteri, Agios Mercurios, Bournias, Graves, Limionari, Aili and Kalami.


=== Cape Punta sea caves ===

Some of the caves along Cape Punta provided hiding places for people of Oktonia escaping the Turks.  They waited for passing Greek ships to take them to other islands.


=== Mountain destinations ===
From the peak of Kallimani Mountain (elevation 750 meters) visitors have a panoramic view of the coast and the Aegean.  Skyros and the Northern Sporades Islands can also be seen.

Botis Cave (Tripa) is in the area of Kakorrema (after Drimo) and has stalactites and stalagmites. It can be accessed by car, followed by a 15-minute hike. For the descent, a rope is required.
Around the top of the mountain of Kallimani there are other caves including:

The cave Agiasma or Graspilaia situated at Askala a short distance from Boti's Cave (Tripa).  Finds here include ceramic objects and shards, and bones from the Proto-Helladic period (3200-2000 BC).
The Cave of Zoodochos Pigi is a small cave in the church yard in Tsouka.  The icon of the Virgin Mary was found in the cave, and the church of Zoodochos Pigi was built to honor it.
The cave at Pigadi is relatively close to Zoodochos Pigis. It is a horizontal cave with an entrance two meters high, width of 60 centimeters and length of four to five meters.
The Cave of Bonou or Bonista is located 200 meters from the cave at Pigadi. It has a length of five meters and depth of ten meters. Research inside the cave yielded a few prehistoric shards and many shards from the post-Roman historical period (4th-5th c. AD).
The Cave of Bourboula is found on the northeast side of Kallimani Mountain at an elevation of 400 meters. The entrance has a width of five meters and maximum height of three meters. The cave was used seasonally as a shelter for herds of goats.
The Cave of the Transfiguration (Metamorphoseos) is found at Kastri (Kastro of Oktonia) near the church. It has a depth of four meters with an entrance three meters high.  Research yielded shards perhaps from prehistoric times and from more recent periods. The cave was used in the past as a shelter for herds of goats.


== Sources of the original Greek ==
Αρχείο Ευβοϊκών Μελετών της Εταιρίας Ευβοϊκών Σπουδών, τόμοι: ΚΓ’, ΚΔ’, ΚΣΤ’
Ευβοϊκά- Ιστορία της Νήσου Ευβοίας του Ναθαναήλ Ιωάννου, Αθήνα, Μάρτιος 1969
«Οκτωνιά, το ιστορικό χωριό της Εύβοιας», του Αναστασίου Σταμ. Μπουλή, Αθήνα 1991.
«Αυτοψίες σε σπήλαια του Δήμου Κύμης-Αλιβερίου», Εφορεία Παλαιοανθρωπολογίας & Σπηλαιολογίας Νοτίου Ελλάδος, Αθήνα 14/10/13.


== References ==


== External links ==
The Worldwide Association of Oktonia, Zoodochos Pigi
Oktonia's facebook page
Visit Oktonia of Evia (Video)
Μunicipality of Kymi-Aliveri
Tourist Guide of Evia and Chalkida

Baida may refer to:


== People ==
Peter Baida (1950–1999) American short story writer
Dmytro Vyshnevetsky (died 1563), hetman of the Ukrainian Cossacks, known as Baida in Ukrainian folk songs


== Arts and entertainment ==
Baïda (album), by Faudel, 1997
Baida (Ralph Alessi album), 2012
Baida (film), a 2025 Indian Hindi-language film


== See also ==
Bayda (disambiguation), and variants
Ramlet al-Baida, a public beach in Beirut, Lebanon

The Inaugural Jim Crockett Sr. Memorial Cup Tag Team Tournament, also referred to as Crockett Cup (1986),  was held on April 19, 1986, at the Louisiana Superdome in New Orleans, Louisiana. The first portion of the event was held in the afternoon and the second portion was held in the night. The event was co-promoted by Jim Crockett Promotions (JCP) and Universal Wrestling Federation (UWF). The tournament featured 24 tag teams. The concept of the Crockett Cup was a single elimination tag team tournament, with the storyline prize of $1,000,000.00 given to the winning team along with a large trophy. The tournament was won by The Road Warriors (Animal and Hawk), as they defeated Ron Garvin and Magnum T. A. in the finals to win the tournament.


== Production ==


=== Background ===
In early 1986, the professional wrestling promotion Jim Crockett Promotions (JCP) announced that they were hosting a 2-show, 24-team tag team tournament with teams from various National Wrestling Alliance territories. The Jim Crockett Sr. Memorial Cup Tag Team Tournament (commonly known simply as the "Crockett Cup"), named in honor of JCP owner Jim Crockett Jr.'s father, "Big Jim" Crockett Sr. and The Crockett Foundation, a non-profit organization founded by Crockett Sr. in 1933. The first Crockett Cup was held in New Orleans, Louisiana in collaboration with Bill Watts' Universal Wrestling Federation who normally promoted shows in New Orleans. The 24 team event was split over two shows, held at the Superdome, split between one show in the afternoon and another in the evening.
Two non-tournament match title matches took place beyond the Crockett Cup tournament matches. The afternoon show drew 3,500 people, for a box office take of approximately $40,000, while the evening show sold 13,000 tickets for a total of $180,000. The two shows were not shown as part of JCP's weekly television shows, nor broadcast on Closed-circuit television at the time. The events were recorded, since JCP would later release the 1986 Crockett Cup as a commercial VHS videotape, featuring all matches but heavily edited down to a 2-hour video.
As of 2025 the most complete way to view the event is to watch the highlights of the first five matches from the first round from the VHS release (around 15 minutes) and then watch the rest of the event from match 6 onwards in full on the video released on the WCW YouTube channel (around 4 hours).


=== Storylines ===
The 1986 Crockett Cup shows featured a total of 25  professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers are portrayed as either heels (those that portray the "bad guys"), faces (the "good guy" characters) or tweeners (characters that is neither clearly a heel or a face) as they follow a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches as determined by the promotion.


==== Tournament participants ====


== Event ==


=== First round ===
The first round of the Crockett Cup kicked off with a tag team match pitting Mark Youngblood and Wahoo McDaniel against Bobby Jaggers and Mike Miller. McDaniel hit a chop and elbow drop to Miller for the win.
Next, Nelson Royal and Sam Houston took on The Batten Twins (Bart and Brad). Houston hit a bulldog to Bart Batten for the win.
Next, Jimmy Valiant and Manny Fernandez took on Baron von Raschke and The Barbarian. Fernandez pinned Barbarian with a sunset flip for the win.
Next, Steve Williams and Terry Taylor took on Bill Dundee and Buddy Landel. Williams nailed an Oklahoma Stampede to Landel for the win.
Next, Chavo Guerrero and Hector Guerrero took on The Sheepherders (Butch and Luke). Sheepherders hit a double clothesline to Hector for the win.
Next, The Fantastics (Bobby Fulton and Tommy Rogers) took on The Fabulous Ones (Stan Lane and Steve Keirn). Fulton pinned Keirn with a roll-up after Rogers jumped out of a back suplex to Keirn.
Next, Buzz Sawyer and Rick Steiner took on Koko Ware and The Italian Stallion. Sawyer hit a powerslam to Stallion for the win.
The final first round match pitted Brett Sawyer and David Peterson against Black Bart and Jimmy Garvin. Bart delivered a leg drop to Peterson and Garvin followed with a brainbuster for the win.


=== Second round ===
The second round of the tournament kicked off with a match pitting the advancing Nelson Royal and Sam Houston against The Midnight Express (Bobby Eaton and Dennis Condrey). Royal applied an abdominal stretch on Condrey until Eaton hit a diving double axe handle to Royal behind the referee's back allowing Condrey to pin him for the win.
Next, Buzz Sawyer and Rick Steiner took on Magnum T. A. and Ron Garvin. After being double teamed by Sawyer and Steiner, Garvin tagged in T. A., who nailed a belly to belly suplex to Steiner for the win.
Next, Mark Youngblood and Wahoo McDaniel took on The Road Warriors (Animal and Hawk). Hawk hit a flying clothesline to Youngblood from the middle rope for the win.
Next, Jimmy Valiant and Manny Fernandez took on The Russians (Ivan Koloff and Nikita Koloff). Valiant had applied a sleeper hold on Ivan until Nikita hit a Russian Sickle to Valiant allowing Ivan to pin him for the win.
Steve Williams and Terry Taylor were scheduled to take on Dino Bravo and Rick Martel in the next match but Bravo had to be treated for appendicitis due to which Bravo was unable to show up and Martel was forced to forfeit the match, allowing Williams and Taylor to advance to the quarterfinal.
Next, The Rock 'n' Roll Express (Ricky Morton and Robert Gibson) took on The Sheepherders. Rock 'n' Roll Express was disqualified when Jack Victory tried to interfere in the match with the New Zealand flag but Morton hit him with the flagpole. Rock 'n' Roll Express argued with the referee over the decision and allowed Sheepherders to advance to the quarterfinal.
Next, The Fantastics took on the team of Arn Anderson and Tully Blanchard. Bobby Fulton dropkicked Anderson as Anderson tried to slam Tommy Rogers allowing Rogers to fall on top of Anderson and pin him for the win.
It was followed by the last match in the second round which pitted Giant Baba and Tiger Mask against Black Bart and Jimmy Garvin. Tiger Mask hit a diving crossbody to Bart allowing Baba to hit a big boot to Bart's chest for the win.


=== Quarterfinals ===
The Quarter Finals began with The Road Warriors taking on The Midnight Express. Midnight Express utilized many dirty tactics but were unable to win which led to their manager Jim Cornette hitting Road Warrior Animal with his tennis racket, leading to Midnight Express getting disqualified and Road Warriors advancing to the semifinal.
Next, Steve Williams and Terry Taylor took on Ivan Koloff and Nikita Koloff. The match ended in a twenty-minute time limit draw. Koloffs and Korstia Korchenko attacked Williams after the match.
Next, The Fantastics took on The Sheepherders. The referee got knocked out and a brawl occurred between the four teams after Jack Victory tossed a flagpole into the ring. The usage of flagpole and the brawl would lead to both teams getting disqualified and eliminated from the tournament.
It was followed by the final Quarter Final match in which Magnum T. A. and Ron Garvin took on Giant Baba and Tiger Mask. Magnum countered a diving crossbody by Mask into a belly to belly suplex for the win.
The earlier time limit draw and double disqualification meant that two extra teams had been eliminated in the Quarter Final phase, therefore the remaining two teams of the Road Warriors and Magnum and Garvin progressed straight to the final.


=== Non-tournament matches ===
Before the finals, two non-tournament matches took place. In the first, Jim Duggan defended the Mid-South North American Heavyweight Championship against Dick Slater. Duggan countered a piledriver attempt by Slater by backdropping him but got trapped in the ropes. Slater tried to advance towards him but the referee stopped him which allowed Duggan to hit a three-point stance clothesline to Slater to retain the title.
In the following match, Ric Flair defended the NWA World Heavyweight Championship against Dusty Rhodes. The referee got knocked out which allowed Flair to take off Rhodes' protective boot and hit him with it for a near-fall. Flair tried to hit Baby Doll which led to Rhodes hitting him with the boot and getting disqualified. He proceeded to hit the referee with it as well and left with Flair's title belt.


=== Final ===
The final of the Crockett Cup took place pitting Road Warriors against Magnum T. A. and Ron Garvin. Garvin hurt his injured hand by hitting Road Warrior Hawk in the face and tended to his hand which allowed Road Warrior Animal to hit a lariat to Garvin to win the match and the Crockett Cup in the process.


== Aftermath ==
On June 20, 2019, a four-hour video of the tournament, starting at match 6 of the first round, was added to the WWE Network as a Hidden Gem. This was later added to the WCW YouTube channel in 2025 for free viewing. This version includes no TV commentary as commentary was only originally recorded for the heavily edited 2 VHS release, so could not be transferred to this more complete version.


== Results ==


=== Tournament brackets ===


== References ==

New Cambria is a city in Saline County, Kansas, United States.  As of the 2020 census, the population of the city was 106.


== History ==
New Cambria was named after Cambria County, Pennsylvania, the native home of an early settler.
The first post office in New Cambria was established in June 1873.


== Geography ==
New Cambria is located at 38°52′43″N 97°30′21″W (38.878504, -97.505730). According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 0.22 square miles (0.57 km2), all  land.


== Demographics ==

It is part of the Salina Micropolitan Statistical Area.


=== 2020 census ===
The 2020 United States census counted 106 people, 47 households, and 28 families in New Cambria. The population density was 595.5 per square mile (229.9/km2). There were 55 housing units at an average density of 309.0 per square mile (119.3/km2). The racial makeup was 82.08% (87) white or European American (82.08% non-Hispanic white), 0.0% (0) black or African-American, 0.0% (0) Native American or Alaska Native, 0.94% (1) Asian, 0.0% (0) Pacific Islander or Native Hawaiian, 0.0% (0) from other races, and 16.98% (18) from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race was 3.77% (4) of the population.
Of the 47 households, 19.1% had children under the age of 18; 44.7% were married couples living together; 17.0% had a female householder with no spouse or partner present. 34.0% of households consisted of individuals and 10.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 1.6 and the average family size was 3.2. The percent of those with a bachelor’s degree or higher was estimated to be 1.9% of the population.
17.9% of the population was under the age of 18, 5.7% from 18 to 24, 31.1% from 25 to 44, 30.2% from 45 to 64, and 15.1% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 39.0 years. For every 100 females, there were 103.8 males. For every 100 females ages 18 and older, there were 89.1 males.
The 2016–2020 5-year American Community Survey estimates show that the median household income was $73,382 (with a margin of error of +/- $11,675). Males had a median income of $73,235 (+/- $23,284) versus $41,250 (+/- $38,024) for females. The median income for those above 16 years old was $73,015 (+/- $28,404). Approximately, 0.0% of families and 10.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 0.0% of those under the age of 18 and 0.0% of those ages 65 or over.


=== 2010 census ===
As of the census of 2010, there were 126 people, 56 households, and 37 families living in the city. The population density was 572.7 inhabitants per square mile (221.1/km2). There were 70 housing units at an average density of 318.2 per square mile (122.9/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 96.8% White, 0.8% Native American, and 2.4% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.8% of the population.
There were 56 households, of which 21.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 50.0% were married couples living together, 10.7% had a female householder with no husband present, 5.4% had a male householder with no wife present, and 33.9% were non-families. 30.4% of all households were made up of individuals, and 7.2% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.25 and the average family size was 2.81.
The median age in the city was 46 years. 17.5% of residents were under the age of 18; 8.8% were between the ages of 18 and 24; 21.4% were from 25 to 44; 33.4% were from 45 to 64; and 19% were 65 years of age or older. The gender makeup of the city was 51.6% male and 48.4% female.


=== 2000 census ===
As of the census of 2000, there were 150 people, 57 households, and 44 families living in the city. The population density was 1,463.7 inhabitants per square mile (565.1/km2). There were 66 housing units at an average density of 644.0 per square mile (248.6/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 96.67% White, 1.33% African American, and 2.00% from two or more races.
There were 57 households, out of which 36.8% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 59.6% were married couples living together, 12.3% had a female householder with no husband present, and 21.1% were non-families. 15.8% of all households were made up of individuals, and 1.8% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.63 and the average family size was 2.89.
In the city, the population was spread out, with 27.3% under the age of 18, 7.3% from 18 to 24, 33.3% from 25 to 44, 22.7% from 45 to 64, and 9.3% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 36 years. For every 100 females, there were 123.9 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 113.7 males.
The median income for a household in the city was $36,607, and the median income for a family was $40,500. Males had a median income of $30,250 versus $23,125 for females. The per capita income for the city was $15,218. There were 2.0% of families and 5.5% of the population living below the poverty line, including 9.5% of under eighteens and none of those over 64.


== Education ==
The community is served by Solomon USD 393 public school district.


== References ==


== Further reading ==


== External links ==

New Cambria - Directory of Public Officials

El ciudadano de mis zapatos is a novel written by Luis Pescetti, Argentine writer and musician. It was published in 1997 by Publisher Sudamericana in Buenos Aires, Argentina. It is one of the 2 Pescetti books that was adapted into a stage play.


== Plot ==
The protagonist, Santiago, narrates the story from his home in Mexico, and retells the story of life, with frequent moves through Argentina. His struggle to discover himself and his identity is constantly in conflict with the struggles of the country, and his father's ill health.


== Characters ==


=== Santiago ===
Santiago is an Argentinian Music Teacher and comedian, who is in love Andrea, a kindergarten teacher. He has always wanted to travel, but is tied down by his job and his father, who has cancer.


=== Andrea ===
The love interest of the protagonist. They never end up together, due to Andrea's grandmother's terminal illness.


=== Amelia ===
A teacher friend of Santiago, who runs off with a Cuban journalist.


== Awards ==
Casa de las Américas Prize in Cuba, in 1997.


== References ==

Finlandia-hiihto (Swedish: Finlandialoppet, English: Finlandia Ski Marathon) is a long-distance cross-country skiing competition, held in Finland each February. Initially, the track stretched from Hämeenlinna to Lahti via Lammi. Since the original course went across several lakes and the ice quality varied from winter to winter, the race was later moved to a location near Lahti.
The first ever Finlandia-hiihto was to have taken place on a course leading from Hämeenlinna to Hyvinkää. However, due to a lack of snow, the race had to be cancelled. The debut event took place the following year, 1974, with a 75-kilometre course from Hämeenlinna to Lahti. In 1976, the race already attracted 3,500 participants from 14 countries. Finlandia-hiihto has been a part of the Worldloppet series since it was founded for the 1978-1979 season.
In 1982, Prince Tomohito of Mikasa from Japan took part in Finlandia-hiihto. That year also saw the number of participants exceed 10,000 for the first time. Two years later, with more than 13,000 participants, Finlandia-hiihto broke the Guinness World Record for the biggest mass skiing event in the world. In 1986, the use of the skating technique was allowed for the first time, but the ban was reintroduced in 1988. In 1990, a separate freestyle race was held on the day before the classic technique competition. The separate freestyle race was soon discontinued, but re-established in 2007.
Due to poor snow conditions in the 1990s, the event had to be moved five times from Hämeenlinna to Lahti. Consequently, a decision was made to change the location permanently, and from 2001 onwards the Finlandia-hiihto has been raced on a course that takes the competitors from Lahti to Hollola and back.
In 2011 Finlandia-hiihto became a part of the FIS Marathon Cup series, which boosted the prestige and visibility of the event.
Over 7,000 skiers took part in the 40th anniversary event of Finlandia-hiihto in 2013. In the same year, the Finlandia Ski Team was founded. The team takes part in cross-country ski races and mass skiing events in Finland and other countries.
The 2020 race had to be cancelled, for the 1st time in the event's history, due to lack of snow on account of the exceptionally mild winter in Finland.


== References ==


== External links ==
Finlandia-hiito's web pages
Finlandia-hiihto photos 2014 Archived 2014-03-01 at the Wayback Machine

Velká Losenice is a municipality and village in Žďár nad Sázavou District in the Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 1,200 inhabitants.


== Administrative division ==
Velká Losenice consists of two municipal parts (in brackets population according to the 2021 census):

Velká Losenice (1,090)
Pořežín (67)


== Geography ==
Velká Losenice is located about 7 kilometres (4 mi) west of Žďár nad Sázavou and 26 km (16 mi) northeast of Jihlava. Most of the municipal territory lies in the Upper Sázava Hills, only the northeastern part extends into the Křižanov Highlands. The highest point is a hill at 640 m (2,100 ft) above sea level. There are several fishponds in the municipality. The northeastern half of the municipality is situated in the Žďárské vrchy Protected Landscape Area.


== History ==
The first written mention of Velká Losenice is from 1352. It was probably founded at the turn of the 12th and 13th centuries. In 1366, a hammer mill in Velká Losenice was documented. From 1502, the village was part of the Polná estate. Between 1597 and 1620, the estate was owned by the Zeidlitz family, but their properties were confiscated after the Battle of White Mountain. In 1623, the estate was acquired by the Dietrichstein family.


== Demographics ==


== Transport ==
The I/19 road from Žďár nad Sázavou to Havlíčkův Brod runs through the municipality, outside the built-up area.


== Sights ==
The main landmark of Velká Losenice is the Church of Saint James the Great. It is a Gothic building with an early Gothic core, which is among the oldest churches in the region.
The main landmarks of Pořežín are a belfry from the 19th century and the former Durnštejn fortress.


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

Jacob Jeffery Bronkey (born September 18, 1965) is a former Major League Baseball pitcher who pitched with the Texas Rangers and Milwaukee Brewers. He attended Klamath Union High School in Klamath Falls, Oregon and became Player of the Year and won a state championship in 1983.
He was drafted by the Philadelphia Phillies in 1983, but instead attended Oklahoma State University. He was drafted by the Minnesota Twins organization in 1986. After his career, he pursued a college degree in psychology and his daughter Sierra was a softball player at the University of Arkansas from 2011 to 2015.
He is the only Major League player born in Afghanistan. He was born in Kabul to an American mother and Afghan father.


== References ==


== External links ==
Career statistics from Baseball Reference · Fangraphs · Baseball Reference (Minors) · Retrosheet · Baseball Almanac

Bradstone is a village in Devon, England, on the River Tamar. It has a small church and a Tudor hall (now a farm) with an attractive gatehouse.
Bradstone Manor Farm is a Grade II listed manor house with a Grade I listed 16th century gatehouse. 
The Church of St Nonna was built in the 12th century. It has been designated as a Grade I listed building and is now in the care of the Churches Conservation Trust. The church has an arcaded north aisle. The west tower was added in the 15th century. The tracery in the south wall of the chancel is believed to date from 1261 when the church was dedicated by Bishop Walter Branscombe. Outside the tower is a stone dedicated to John Coumbe, said to have lived from 1484 to 1604 — outliving the entire Tudor dynasty.


== References ==

Bradstone at GENUKI
Bradstone community page


== External links ==
 Media related to Bradstone at Wikimedia Commons

The Milwaukee Bears were a Negro National League team that operated during the 1923 season, its only season in the league representing Milwaukee, Wisconsin.


== Founding ==
The team was one of two (the Toledo Tigers being the other) created to fill one of the vacancies created in the NNL after the Cleveland Tate Stars and Pittsburgh Keystones had been dropped after the previous season.  It drew much of its personnel from the disbanded Keystones and from the New Orleans Crescent Stars, an independent southern team.  Hall of Fame outfielder Pete Hill, 40, was asked by Rube Foster to manage the team, and remaining roster spots were filled from tryouts held in Chicago in April, and by castoffs from other teams.


== League play and demise ==
With limited financing and an inexperienced ownership, the team quickly fell out of the running in the league.  Primarily due to poor home attendance at Athletic Park (later known as Borchert Field), the club played most of its games on the road, and finished in last place with a 12–41 record in league play, disbanding after the season.


=== Players ===
Outfielders Pete Duncan (.321), Percy Wilson (.314), and Sandy Thompson (.310) were among the better hitters.  Fulton Strong led the pitching staff with only four victories, against 14 defeats.  Hill hit .296 in a part-time role as the Bears' player-manager.


== MLB throwback jerseys ==
In 2006, the Milwaukee Brewers wore Bears throwback uniforms in games against the Washington Nationals (at Miller Park) and Kansas City Royals (on the road) as part of a tribute to the Negro leagues. On June 23, 2007, the Brewers wore the Bears' uniform for another Negro leagues tribute game against the Royals (who wore Kansas City Monarchs uniforms).  On July 5, 2008, the Brewers also wore the Bears' uniforms against the Pittsburgh Pirates, who wore Pittsburgh Crawfords uniforms. The same happened on June 7, 2019. On May 29, 2010, the Brewers wore Bears uniforms in a game against the New York Mets who wore New York Cubans uniforms. On July 9, 2011, the Brewers wore Bears uniforms against the Cincinnati Reds.
The uniforms worn in the games from 2006 to 2008 were white with black pinstripes, black letters spelling Milwaukee, black socks, and a white pinstriped cap. From 2009 to 2011, the Brewers wore a different version of the Bears' uniforms, which were cream colored with blue sleeves and trim, plus blue socks and caps.


== See also ==
History of professional baseball in Milwaukee


== References ==


=== Bibliography ===
Peter Ventura & Patrick Rock (2004). Negro National League 1923 Yearbook. Ohiopyle, Pennsylvania: Replay Games Publishing. No ISBN.
Dick Clark & Larry Lester (1994). The Negro Leagues Book. Cleveland, Ohio: Society for American Baseball Research. ISBN 0-910137-55-2.
James A. Riley (1994). The Biographical Encyclopedia of the Negro Baseball Leagues. New York: Carroll & Graf. ISBN 0-7867-0959-6.


== External links ==
Team history and statistics from seamheads.com · baseball-reference.com

Petrus Tileinge Damaseb (born 26 June 1962 in Tsumeb, Oshikoto Region) is a Namibian judge serving as the Judge President of the High Court of Namibia as well as the Deputy Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Namibia.


== Education ==
Damaseb studied at schools in Tsumeb, Grootfontein and Uis prior to joining the liberation struggle and going into exile in Zambia. In Zambia, he studied at the United Nations Institute for Namibia (UNIN) and obtained a Diploma in Development Studies and Management with a focus on law. In 1984, he qualified as a magistrate through Zambia's National Institute of Public Administration in conjunction with UNIN. He then received a United Nations scholarship to study at the University of Warwick in the United Kingdom, where he graduated with an LLB (honours) degree.


== Career ==
Damaseb returned to Namibia in 1989, as the country prepared for its first democratic elections. From independence in 1990 to 1997, he served as a senior government official. He worked in a private practice from 1997 to 2004. In 2004, Damaseb was appointed a permanent judge of the High Court of Namibia. He has also been a judge of the SADC Tribunal. He served on the FIFA Ethics Committee and was Vice Chairman of Confederation of African Football (CAF) Appeal Board. He has also served as head of the Namibia Football Association.  Justice Damaseb entered the legal profession in Namibia in 1995, he had  served as Permanent Secretary in the Office of the Prime Minister, Cabinet Secretary and Secretary to the President.


=== Notable cases ===
Kareeboomvloer massacre: Brothers Sylvester and Gavin Beukes murder the owners' couple of farm Kareeboomvloer and execute all witnesses, including two children. The trial lasted from 2007 to 2011.


== References ==

Hunsecker was originally an anglicized version of the surname, Hunziker.  Hunsecker may refer to:

a variant of the surname Hunziker
Hunsecker, Pennsylvania, a community in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania
J. J. Hunsecker, a character in the book, film, and musical Sweet Smell of Success

The Ontario Automobile Policy (OAP 1, also called the Owner's Policy) is a regulation under the Ontario Insurance Act enacted by the Parliament of Ontario to cover financial damages to persons and property after a car crash. All private companies registered to sell auto insurance in Ontario, are required to use the OAP for their private car insurance policy. The OAP is the legal contract that connects an Ontario driver with every Ontario based insurance company.
Insurance coverage is divided up between several different portions of the policy. The circumstances of the accident determine which section is used. An often misunderstood one is the Direct Compensation Property Damage (DCPD). The OAP is a "No Fault" insurance rules for accidents within the province. DCPD is mandatory to purchase, and it says insured drivers claim through their own insurance companies for repairs, rental, and tow charges, even when they are not at fault for an accident. If the at fault driver in Ontario doesn't have DCPD, then a driver is covered by Uninsured Motorist Property Damage instead (UMPD). UMPD is also mandatory to buy.
Other sections of the policy are Specified Perils and Comprehensive, which insure events like hail, theft, and vandalism. Collision covers damages from at-fault accidents and hit and runs. All Perils combines Comprehensive and Collision but adds some coverage. Each is optional to buy, however lease and car loan companies usually require Collision and Comprehensive.
The Ontario Automobile Policy does have several extra insurance pages called Endorsements. These are optional to buy. The most common are rental insurance (Loss of Use) used for Collision and Comprehensive claims, and new parts/new vehicle replacement (43 Endorsement).
In Ontario accident fault is judged according to the Ontario Fault Determination Rules. Which means whether an auto claim is covered by DPCD, or Collision, or a mixture of both, depends on how the insurance adjuster evaluates a driver's fault rating after an accident.


== Needed For Insurance Coverage ==
Every insurance section of the OAP has requirements that need to be met before a claim can be made under that section.


== What is covered ==
Each section of the OAP coverage certain events like car crashes, vandalism, and hit and runs. Below is a summary.


== What is not covered ==
Each section of the OAP coverage does not cover certain events like car crashes, vandalism, and hit and runs. Below is a summary.


== Deductibles ==
Insurance claims often come with deductibles. Either it is a percentage of the deductible purchased (100% of a $1,000.00 collision deductible) or a standard dollar deductible. Below is a summary.

* DCPD deductibles are rarely purchased, but if done, the DCPD deductible applies for not at fault accidents.


== Disputes ==
Insurance company adjusters are responsible for getting accident details and interpreting the OAP. Insurance adjusters determine what accidents will be covered under what section. However, policyholders may dispute an adjusters determination by a process of appeal. Each insurance company has a difference process. The insurance representative (adjuster, broker, or agent) is responsible for advising policyholders of the procedures.
Also, each insurance company has a complaint officer. Alternatively, the complaint can be sent to the chief executive officer directly. If a policyholder and insurance company do not come to an agreement, the insurance company is obligated to send a "final position letter" outlining their reasons as well as providing a policyholder with the name and details of an independent Ombudsman organization who reviews all complaints. Upon receipt of an unresolved complaint with applicable paperwork and final position letter, a Complaint Officer at the independent Ombudsman organization will review and respond to all complaints.


== References ==

Lauren Hew (born 26 September 1999) is a swimmer from the Cayman Islands.
In 2019, she represented Cayman Islands at the World Aquatics Championships held in Gwangju, South Korea. She competed in the women's 50 metre freestyle and women's 100 metre freestyle events. In both events she did not advance to compete in the semi-finals. She also competed in the 4 × 100 metre mixed freestyle relay event. In the same year, she also represented the Cayman Islands at the 2019 Pan American Games held in Lima, Peru.


== References ==


== External links ==
Lauren Hew at Florida State Seminoles
Lauren Hew at World Aquatics
Lauren Hew at the Commonwealth Games Federation (archived)
Lauren Hew at the Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games (archived)
Lauren Hew at InterSportStats

Peter Land   (born Peter Oliver White; 9 July 1953) is a New Zealand actor and singer known for his classical acting with the Royal National Theatre and the Royal Shakespeare Company as well as appearances in many musicals.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
Born Peter Oliver White in Taihape, he is the third child of Dr Allan Neil White, appointed Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to medicine and the community in the New Zealand 2007 New Year Honours, and Molly Louise Copeland, whose maiden name provided Land with his last name. Land was educated at Palmerston North Boys' High School, Victoria University of Wellington (graduating from the Drama Department) and Toi Whakaari: New Zealand Drama School, from where he graduated with a Diploma in Acting in 1975. Land achieved notable stage success after moving to England in October 1977.


=== Career ===
His West End musical debut was as Freddy in My Fair Lady in 1979–1980 at the 
Adelphi Theatre. This was followed by seasons at the Royal National Theatre in Life of Galileo with Sir Michael Gambon and the Royal Shakespeare Company in The Winter's Tale with Patrick Stewart, Proteus in The Two Gentlemen of Verona (1982) and All's Well That Ends Well with Dame Peggy Ashcroft (1982). 
Equally at home in musicals with roles such as Cliff in Cabaret, Andre in The Phantom of the Opera, Snodgrass in Pickwick, Savory in One Touch of Venus and in 2007 as Captain Hook "brilliantly played with a flamboyant, nervous energy and drolly self-guying swagger" in a new adaptation of J. M. Barrie's Peter Pan. In this production, he sang the first stage performance of "Captain Hook's Soliloquy", composed by Leonard Bernstein in 1950 and given its world premiere in concert by baritone Lawrence Tibbett.
He first appeared on British television in the Secret Army series  as Erich Devouglaar, a Flemish youth destined for the Eastern Front, while for CBS in 1985, he appeared as Mr. Brent, a 'dream broker', in a season 1 episode of The Twilight Zone, called Wish Bank.
In June 2008 Land appeared as René Auberjonois's brother Beralde in Molière's The Imaginary Invalid, at the Shakespeare Theatre Company in Washington D.C. directed by Keith Baxter.
In 2010/11 Land was back at The King's Head Theatre (renamed London's Little Opera House) debuting as The Bonze in OperaUpClose's radical reinterpretation of Puccini's Madam Butterfly directed by Adam Spreadbury-Maher. 
He appeared in Now or Never, his one-man cabaret show directed by Gillian Lynne, dedicated to the victims of the 2011 Canterbury earthquake in New Zealand in London at the King's 
Head Theatre in 2011. An updated version ran at New York's Off-Broadway York Theatre in February 2012. 
In 2013 Land played a "leanly rapacious capitalist" in Jerry Herman's Dear World in the West End at the Charing Cross Theatre. The musical starring Betty Buckley was directed and choreographed by Gillian Lynne.
He appeared in the Off-Broadway production of Ruthless! as Sylvia St. Croix in 2015.


=== Personal life ===
Land married director and choreographer Gillian Lynne in 1980.


== References ==


== External links ==
Peter Land at IMDb
Peter Land at the Internet Broadway Database 
Peter Land Toi Whakaari Success Story
Peter Land in Now or Never on YouTube

The District No. 119 North School is a moveable historic school in Sheridan County, Nebraska, United States that was built in 1951 and served as a school for 10 years.  It is a 10-by-16-foot (3.0 m × 4.9 m) building with no foundation, rather resting on skids so that it could be moved to where it was needed.  It was moved to the areas of school-children of ranches too remote for the children come to the school in Ellsworth.  It is now located in Ellsworth.
It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2010.  It was deemed significant as a one-room schoolhouse preserved with good historic integrity.


== References ==


== External links ==
More photos of the District 119 School at Wikimedia Commons

Chad has two official languages, French and Arabic. Ethnologue reports over 120 indigenous languages in the country. Nevertheless, French remains the primary language of government and education and is predominant for inter-ethnic communication.


== Official languages ==

The co-official languages of Chad, French and Arabic, reflect Chad's complex sociolinguistic history where indigenous people and languages coexist with two different waves of colonization. Due to governmental bilingualism, inter-ethnic marriages, and language contact, most Chadians are multilingual.  
Arabic took hold following 16th century Arab migrations from Sudan, Nubia, and possibly through Trans-Saharan trade routes. A vernacular version of Arabic, Chadian Arabic, is a lingua franca and the language of commerce, spoken by approximately 60% of the population.
France gained control of Chad during the early 20th century, and their colonial policies focused on spreading French as the primary language in Chad. A 1924 letter from the governor general of French Chad declared: "The spread of French is a necessity [...] The native is only allowed to present his/her requests in French." After Chad gained independence in 1960, French was retained by the new government as the official language, in part because it functioned as a neutral choice, rather than having to elevate one indigenous language over another.
Arabic joined French as a co-official language in 1978, as part of a deal ending the Chadian Civil War by increasing northern Chadians' role in government. French remains the dominant language in many workplaces, schools, and administrative institutions. A 2022 analysis found that about 75% of administrative institutions spoke exclusively in French, and a further 20% spoke French and Arabic.


== Non-official languages ==
The language with the most first-language speakers in Chad is likely Ngambay, which has an estimated one million speakers. Ngambay is used as a commercial and inter-ethnic bridge language in Southern Chad and in the capital, N'Djamena.
Many of major indigenous languages of Chad are members of the Sara-Bongo-Bagirmi language branch of the proposed Nilo-Saharan language family. In addition to Ngambay, these include Kaba, Deme, Lutos, and Barma/Bagirmi. These languages are mostly used in southern Chad and some of them extend into neighboring countries, especially Cameroon or the Central African Republic. 
In parts of Southern Chad, the linguistic landscape is highly diverse. It is a border region between three language families: Niger-Congo, Nilo-Saharan, and Afro-Asiatic, plus a language isolate, Laal. A 2025 study in two villages along the Chari River found that every villager spoke at least three languages fluently, and most spoke at least four. As a result, even though many of the languages have a small number of speakers, they are relatively vibrant, continuing to get passed down through the generations.
The Chadian government produced the Chadian National Alphabet, which provides Arabic script and Latin script transcription for various Chadian languages.
Chadian Sign Language is a poorly-studied language that is considered to be a variant of Nigerian Sign Language, which is itself based on American Sign Language. Andrew Foster, a Deaf African-American educator, introduced ASL instruction to West Africa beginning in the 1960s, eventually establishing 32 schools across 13 countries. Foster began teaching a summer course in ASL for French-speaking teachers, and this in turn led to the founding of a school in Chad in 1976. Although Foster's course taught ASL-based signs, the language may be more of a creole, combining ASL signs with French structure.


== Languages used in Chad ==
Ethnologue lists 123 living indigenous languages in use in Chad. Of these, 55 are considered Afro-Asiatic languages, 46 are Nilo-Saharan languages, and 23 are Niger-Congo languages. Some languages that have been attested in Chad are listed below.
All languages listed below are taken from Ethnologue's list unless otherwise cited.


=== Niger–Congo languages ===
Adamawa languages
Goundo
Kim
Mbum languages
Mundang
Tupuri
Bua languages: Bua, Niellim, Gula Iro, etc.


=== Nilo-Saharan languages ===
Maban languages
Karanga
Kendeje
Kibet
Maba
Marfa
Massalat
Runga
Surbakhal
Fur languages
Amdang
Fur
Saharan languages
Dazaga
Kanembu
Tedaga
Zaghawa
Bongo–Bagirmi languages (Central Sudanic)
Bernde (Morom)
Bagirmi (Barma)
Berakou
Disa
Gula
Jaya
Kenga
Naba
Fongoro
Ngambay
Sar (Madjingay)
Sinyar
Eastern Sudanic languages
Tama
Sungor
Mararit
Daju


=== Afro-Asiatic languages ===
Semitic languages
Chadian Arabic (co-official language of Chad)
Chadic languages
Bidiyo
Buduma
Dangaléat
Gabri
Kabalai
Kera
Kimré
Kwang
Lele
Marba
Masana
Masmaje
Mesme
Migaama
Mubi
Musey
Musgu
Nancere
Pévé
Sokoro
Tobanga
Tumak


=== Creole languages ===
Sango
Bongor Arabic


=== Language isolate ===
Laal


== References ==


== External links ==
The full list of 123 indigenous languages on the Ethnologue page "Languages of Chad"
PanAfrican L10n page on Chad

Mohsen Al-Eisa (Arabic: محسن العيسى; born 9 July 1987) is a Saudi footballer who plays as a winger.


== Club career statistics ==


== Honours ==


=== Al-Ahli ===
King Cup of Champions: 2012


== References ==

Prema Lucas (better known simply as Prema) was born in Taiping, Malaysia. Educated in Australia, where she obtained a Bachelor of Arts from the University of Adelaide, Prema started her singing career busking and singing in pubs. Rozlan Aziz of R.A.P showed a keen interest in Prema's career upon her return to Malaysia and she was invited to perform as a guest artiste at the Ikhlas concert in Malaysia at Merdeka to 45,000 people.
Prema was then signed to Warner Music (Malaysia) where she started work on her self-titled debut album, Prema. Her first single, "Alive Again" was released in 1997 which resulted in her first music video for the song. Her second music video was released in 1998 for the track "Oblivion". This album was nominated for four AIM awards in Malaysia.
In 1999, Prema left Malaysia and Warner Music to relocate to England, where she spent time writing for Warner Chappell (Malaysia).
In 2008, Prema began work on her second album under her own record label, MoreReverb.com. The album entitled In Fusion, released in early 2009, was written and produced by Prema, except for the guitar parts which the Motown guitarist Wah Wah Watson produced and arranged himself. This album aksi features Peter Erskine (Weather Report), Luis Perdomo, Damian Erskine and Bashiri Johnson.


== References ==

"Prema, alive and unleashed again". New Straits Times. 17 June 1997. Retrieved 30 March 2015.
"Primarily Prema Lucas". New Straits Times. 25 August 1996. Retrieved 30 March 2015.


== External links ==
Official website

Michael J. Meaney, CM, CQ, FRSC, (born 1951) is a professor at McGill University specializing in biological psychiatry, neurology, and neurosurgery, who is primarily known for his research on stress, maternal care, and gene expression. His research team has "discovered the importance of maternal care in modifying the expression of genes that regulate behavioral and neuroendocrine responses to stress, as well as hippocampal synaptic development" in animal studies. The research has implications for domestic and public policy for maternal support and its role in human disease prevention and economic health.
Meaney is associate director of the Research Centre at the Douglas Mental Health University Institute, director of the Program for the Study of Behaviour, Genes and Environment, and James McGill Professor, Departments of Psychiatry and Neurology and Neurosurgery, McGill University. He was named a "Most Highly Cited Scientist" in the area of neuroscience by the Institute for Scientific Information in 2007 and was also elected to the Royal Society of Canada and named a Knight of the National Order of Quebec. For research on stress he has received a Senior Scientist Career Award from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research in 1997. He also, along with fellow researcher from the Douglas Institute Dr. Gustavo Turecki, was awarded the Scientist of the Year Award by Radio-Canada.  In 2011, he was made a member of the Order of Canada.


== Animal studies ==
Meaney is an expert in stress and epigenetics, with hundreds of papers and thousands of citations culminating in a h-index of 135 as of 2019. Meaney has studied the epigenetic effects of stressors ranging from aversive early life experience to obesity. His early research focused on the relationship between maternal care and stress response in rat pups. This work demonstrated that pups removed from their maternal environment and handled for 15 minutes per day had lower hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal responses than pups separated from their mothers for 3 hours per day and pups with no handling whatsoever. Meaney hypothesized that these changes were related to glucocorticoid receptor density and its role in hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis feedback.  Meaney and colleagues tested his hypothesis by examining the effect of maternal care on GR expression. They separated mother rats into two groups: high licking and grooming mothers and low licking and grooming mothers. Pups of high licking and grooming mothers had a significantly greater density of glucocorticoid receptors in their hippocampi than pups of low licking and grooming mothers. This research was the first to establish a causational relationship between maternal care and behavioral epigenetic programming by cross fostering pups. Meaney also studied this causal relationship between maternal care and epigenetic programming in estrogen receptor expression in the medial pre-optic area of the brain. The behavioral results showed that high licking and grooming mothers birth pups that grow to be high licking and grooming mothers, even with cross fostering.   Meaney's animal research and hypotheses are broadly applicable, showing similar results when applied to humans.


== Human studies ==
Meaney's early research provided impetus for applied behavioral epigenetic research in humans. His first study compared suicidal subjects with a history of child abuse to suicidal subjects without a history of child abuse. Meaney found further evidence to support his hippocampal glucocorticoid receptor hypothesis when he discovered that abuse victims had less expression of hippocampal glucocorticoid receptors than both non-abused suicide victims and non-suicidal subjects. This suggests that childhood abuse alters the hippocampus in a way that is related to suicidal behavior.


== Publications ==


== Books ==


== See also ==
Epigenetics
Douglas Hospital


== References ==


== External links ==
Researcher Profile - Michael Meaney, Douglas Mental Health University Institute affiliated with McGill University 
Lab website

Uveal melanoma is a type of eye cancer in the uvea of the eye. It is traditionally classed as originating in the iris, choroid, and ciliary body, but can also be divided into class I (low metastatic risk) and class II (high metastatic risk). Symptoms include blurred vision, loss of vision, and photopsia, but there may be no symptoms.
Tumors arise from the pigment cells that reside within the uvea and give color to the eye. These melanocytes are distinct from the retinal pigment epithelium cells underlying the retina that do not form melanomas. When eye melanoma is spread to distant parts of the body, the five-year survival rate is about 15%.
It is the most common type of primary eye cancer. Males and females are affected equally. More than 50% spread, mostly to the liver.


== Types ==
Uveal melanomas, often referred to by the media and in the general population as ocular melanomas, may arise from any of the three parts of the uvea, and are sometimes referred to by their location, choroidal melanoma, ciliary body melanoma, or iris melanoma. Large tumors often encompass multiple parts of the uvea and can be named accordingly. True iris melanomas, originating from within the iris as opposed to originating elsewhere and invading the iris, are distinct in their etiology and prognosis, such that the other tumors are often referred to collectively as posterior uveal melanomas.


=== Iris melanoma ===
Uveal tumors can originate from melanocytes residing within the iris. Benign melanocytic tumors, such as iris freckles and moles (nevi), are common and pose no health risks, unless they show signs of malignancy, in which case they are classified as iris melanomas. Though derived from uveal melanocytes, iris melanomas share more in common with cutaneous (skin) melanomas in that they frequently harbor BRAF mutations associated with ultraviolet damage. Iris melanomas are much less likely to metastasize than other uveal melanomas, and less likely to impair vision if detected and treated early. Approximately 5% of uveal melanomas involve the iris.


=== Posterior uveal melanoma ===

Benign melanocytic tumors of the choroid, such as choroidal freckles and nevi, are very common and pose no health risks, unless they show signs of malignancy, in which case they are considered melanomas. Uveal melanoma is distinct from most skin melanomas associated with ultraviolet exposure; however, it shares several similarities with non-sun-exposed melanomas, such as acral melanomas and mucosal melanomas. BRAF mutations are extremely rare in posterior uveal melanomas; instead, uveal melanomas frequently harbor GNAQ/GNA11 mutations, a trait shared with blue nevi, nevus of Ota, and ocular melanosis. As seen in BRAF, mutations in GNAQ/GNA11 are early events in tumorigenesis and are not prognostic for tumor stage or later metastatic spread. In contrast, mutations in the gene BAP1 are strongly linked to metastatic spread and patient survival. Incidence of posterior uveal melanoma is highest among people with light skin and blue eyes. Other risk factors, such as blue light exposure and arc welding, have been put forward, but are still debated in the field. Mobile phone use is not a risk factor for uveal melanoma.


== Signs and symptoms ==
Ocular melanoma may present without symptoms depending upon the location and size of the tumor. When symptoms do occur, they can include:

blurred vision
double vision (diplopia)
irritation
pain
a perception of flashes of light in the eye (photopsia)
a reduction in the total field of vision
loss of vision
a sensation of a foreign body in the field of vision (floaters)
redness, bulging or displacement of the eye (proptosis)
a change in the shape of the pupil
pressure within the eye
metamorphopsia (a distortion of vision where, when a person looks at a grid of straight lines, the lines appear wavy and parts of the grid appears blank).


== Cause ==
The cause of uveal melanoma is unclear. Uveal nevi are common (5% of Caucasians), but rarely progress to melanoma.


== Metastasis ==
Because there are no lymphatic channels to the uveal tract, metastasis occurs through local extension and/or blood-borne dissemination. The most common site of metastasis for uveal melanoma is the liver; the liver is the first site of metastasis for 80%-90% of ocular melanoma patients. Other common sites of metastasis include the lung, bones, and just beneath the skin (subcutaneous). Approximately 50 percent of patients will develop metastases within 15 years after treatment of the primary tumor, and the liver will be involved 90% of the time. Metastasis can occur more than 10 years after treatment of the primary tumor, and patients should not be considered cured even after a 10-year interval of monitoring. Molecular features of the tumor, including chromosome 3 status, chromosome 6p status, and chromosome 8q status and gene expression profiling (such as the DecisionDx-UM test), can be used to adjust this likelihood of metastasis for an individual patient.
The average survival time after diagnosis of liver metastases depends on the extent of systemic spread. The disease-free interval, the performance status, the liver substitution by metastases and the serum level of lactic dehydrogenase are the most important prognostic factors for metastatic uveal melanoma. There is currently no cure for metastatic uveal melanoma.


== Diagnosis ==


== Treatment ==
The treatment protocol for uveal melanoma has been directed by many clinical studies, the most important being The Collaborative Ocular Melanoma Study (COMS). The treatment varies depending upon many factors, chief among them the size of the tumor and results from testing of biopsied material from the tumor. Primary treatment can involve removal of the affected eye (enucleation); however, this is now reserved for cases of extreme tumor burden or other secondary problems.  Advances in radiation therapies have significantly decreased the number of patients treated by enucleation in developed countries.


=== Plaque brachytherapy ===
The most common radiation treatment is plaque brachytherapy, in which a small disc-shaped shield (plaque) encasing radioactive seeds (most often iodine-125, though ruthenium-106 and palladium-103 are also used) is attached to the outside surface of the eye, overlying the tumor. The plaque is left in place for a few days and then removed. The risk of metastasis after plaque radiotherapy is the same as that of enucleation, suggesting that micrometastatic spread occurs prior to treatment of the primary tumor.


=== Proton therapy ===
Proton therapy delivers powerful doses of radiation to the tumor while sparing surrounding healthy eye tissue. The treatment is also effective at controlling tumor growth and maintaining a patient's natural eye.


=== Immunotherapy ===
On January 25, 2022, the FDA approved tebentafusp (Kimmtrak) for adult HLA-A*2-positive patients with metastatic uveal melanoma. Approval was based on the IMCgp100-202 trial (NCT03070392), which compared tebentafusp with investigator's choice of either dacarbazine, pembrolizumab or ipilimumab. Patients lived a median of 16 months when treated with investigator's choice of therapy, compared to a median 21.7 months with tebentafusp. This translated in a 49% reduction in the risk of death. Overall survival after one year of treatment was 59% in the control group, versus 73% in the tebentafusp group.


=== Other ===
Other modalities of treatment include transpupillary thermotherapy, resection of the tumor, gamma knife stereotactic radiosurgery, or a combination of different modalities. Different surgical resection techniques can include trans-scleral partial choroidectomy and transretinal endoresection.
A  2017 analysis of genomic data led to a new analysis of clinical subtyping in uveal melanoma.
Ocular melanoma expert Professor Sarah Coupland, in 2018, suggested cautious optimism as new types of targeted therapeutics are tested and approved.


== Prognosis ==
When eye melanoma is spread to distant parts of the body, the five-year survival rate is about 15%.
Several clinical and pathological prognostic factors have been identified that are associated with higher risk of metastasis of uveal melanomas. These include large tumor size, ciliary body involvement, presence of orange pigment overlying the tumor, and older patient age. Likewise several histological and cytological factors are associated with higher risk of metastasis, including presence and extent of cells with epithelioid morphology, presence of looping extracellular matrix patterns, increased infiltration of immune cells, and staining with several immunohistochemical markers.
The most important genetic alteration associated with poor prognosis in uveal melanoma is inactivation of BAP1, which most often occurs through mutation of one allele and subsequent loss of an entire copy of chromosome 3 (monosomy 3) to unmask the mutant copy. Because of this function in inactivation of BAP1, monosomy 3 correlates strongly with metastatic spread Where BAP1 mutation status is not available, gains on chromosomes 6 and 8 can be used to refine the predictive value of the monosomy 3 screen, with gain of 6p indicating a better prognosis and gain of 8q indicating a worse prognosis in disomy 3 tumors.  In rare instances, monosomy 3 tumors may duplicate the BAP1-mutant copy of the chromosome to return to a disomic state referred to as isodisomy.  Thus, isodisomy 3 is prognostically equivalent to monosomy 3, and both can be detected by tests for chromosome 3 loss of heterozygosity. Monosomy 3, along with other chromosomal gains, losses, amplifications, and LOH, can be detected in fresh or paraffin-embedded samples by virtual karyotyping.
The most accurate prognostic factor is molecular classification by gene expression profiling of uveal melanomas.  This analysis has been used to identify two subclasses of uveal melanomas: class 1 tumors that have a very low risk of metastasis, and class 2 tumors that have a very high risk of metastasis. Gene expression profiling outperforms all of the above-mentioned factors at predicting metastatic spread of the primary tumor, including monosomy 3.


=== Surveillance ===
Currently, there is no consensus regarding type or frequency of scans following diagnosis and treatment of the primary eye tumor.
Of the 50% of patients who develop metastatic disease, more than 90% of patients will develop liver metastases. As such, the majority of surveillance techniques are focused on the liver. These include abdominal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), abdominal ultrasound and liver function tests. The scientific community is currently working to develop guidelines, but until then, each patient must take into consideration their individual clinical situation and discuss appropriate surveillance with their doctors.
Some ophthalmologists have also found promise with the use of intravitreal avastin injections in patients with radiation-induced retinopathy, a side effect of plaque brachytherapy treatment, as well as imaging surveillance with SD-OCT.


== Epidemiology ==
Uveal melanomas are the most common primary intraocular tumor in adults.  Uveal melanoma is classified as a rare cancer with 5.1 cases per million people per year. The incidence has remained stable for several years.
There are about 2500 patients with UM diagnosed annually in the US.


=== Apparent clustering ===
In 2018, it was reported that two clusters of cases have been identified in Huntersville, North Carolina, and Auburn, Alabama. Cases involved alumni of Auburn University who were acquainted with each other. Health officials investigated and found that the "cluster" is an artifact of social networking.


== History ==
Uveal melanoma was first described in the literature in 1809-1812 by two Scottish surgeons, Allan Burns and James Wardrop.


== See also ==
Melanoma
Eye cancer
DecisionDx-UM


== References ==


== External links ==

National Organization for Rare Diseases - Ocular Melanoma
Cancer Research UK
National Cancer Institute - Intraocular (Eye) Melanoma—Patient Version
Ocular Melanoma Foundation
A Cure In Sight

Just Right is the third extended play by South Korean boy band Got7. It was released on July 13, 2015.


== Background and composition ==
The release of the album was announced on June 29, 2015, while the tracklist was revealed on July 8.
"Just Right" was composed and produced by The Jackie Boyz, consisting of siblings Carlos and Steven Battey, with lyrics by J.Y. Park, and combines pop melodies with the energetic rhythms of southern hip hop. The song is sung from the perspective of a boyfriend encouraging his girlfriend about her physical appearance, reassuring her that she is perfect just the way she is. The extended play, which was released on July 13 at midnight along with the music video for "Just Right," features JB writing the rap for "Mine" under the pseudonym Defsoul, and Jackson and Mark writing the one for "Back to Me." "Before the Full Moon Rises" is about a lover who doesn't want to separate from his partner, even if the day has come to an end.


== Critical reception ==
Critics from South Korean webzine Idology had mixed opinions about the record. Kim Yoon-ah stated that the laid-back groove of "Just Right" represented Got7's unique color, which they had maintained since their debut, but was unconvinced by the songs as they seemed to fail to keep up with the members' growth, pointing to "Back to Me" as the only balanced one. Oyo felt that the energy was wasted as the album alternates between hip hop and R&B tracks, showing a lot of everything but without a clear direction in mind, while Yoo Je-sang called it an easy-to-listen-to album which had successfully adapted the 1990s sound to the contemporary era. Block found the songs interesting and fun.


== Track listing ==


== Charts ==


== References ==

Cindy Yen (born Cindy Wu Chinese: 吳欣雲; 14 November 1986) is a Taiwanese-American singer-songwriter, actress, composer, and record producer. She is signed to JVR Music since 2009 and released her first debut album in October of same year entitled Cindy Yen, as well as her first song, "Sand Painting", a duet composed by her and sang along Jay Chou. She is known for R&B, soul, pop, classical, rock, acoustic folk, and hip-hop.


== Early life and education ==
Yen was born on 14 November 1986 in Houston, Texas. Her parents were divorced when she was 12, and solely was raised by her mother. As a child, she had interest in music especially the musical instrument, piano, which she calls her "best friend", and "part of what makes her happy". Yen attended Bellaire High School in Texas in 2004 and furthered to The University of Texas at Austin, where she majored in piano performance and broadcast journalism.
In 2008, Yen auditioned for American Idol in Dallas, but was eliminated by Randy Jackson. In the fall of 2008, she moved to Taiwan—her native land and proceeded into beauty pageantry though desired to be a musical artist. She won the 2008 Miss Chinatown Houston and the Miss Chinatown USA in 2009.
She was signed by Jay Chou into JVR Music as the first artist in February 2009.


== Career ==


=== Music ===
Within eight months of signing, Yen released her debut single, "Sand Painting", a duet she composed and sang along Jay Chou. The song received critical acclaim and topped Billboard China and KTV. The album was listed under Top 10 on the G-Music charts and top listened in KKBox Charts. In 2010, "Sand Painting" was rated as the top ten "most popular hit songs" in China by the Mandarin Web Original Composition Pop Music Charts. She later re-wrote the lyrics for its English version—"Another One Like You". Following the success of her song, she became a "featured girl" for FarEasTone, a Taiwan technological industry. On 30 October 2009, Yen released her self-titled album "Cindy Yen".

Despite the challenges of western influence in Asian musical culture, her album was musically R&B, rock, hip-hop, pop rock, hard metal and Latin hip-hop dance beats and included hits including "Stupid Fish", "Very Traveling Love", "Singing a Song Because of Longing", and "Dancing With Threat." Since her debut, Yen opened her own mini-concert in Hong Kong. She was on tour with Jay Chou's 2010 "The Era" Concert Tour as a regular guest performer.
Yen released her second album, "2 Be Different" on September 29, 2011. In an interview with Razor TV, she said her album was to "empower women". Yen received the Best Stylistic New Artist at the Beijing MTV Super Awards in 2011, and the Best Single of the Year for "Trap". In 2012, she was awarded the Stylistic Breakthrough Artist of the Year at the Beijing Music Awards.
Yen released her third album, "Fight For Love" in 2015 with hits, "Come To Mami" and "Bad Boy". She later collaborated with Della Ding, a Taiwanese singer from B'in Music and released the song entitled "I Want Me" (我要我).
She is signed to Sony Music Entertainment Taiwan.


=== Acting ===
Yen first made a special guest appearance in the television drama series Pandamen (2010). On 5 July 2011, she starred as a supporting actress alongside Megan Lai and Yowei Lin in the TV series, Invaluable Treasure 1949. She has starred in the feature film, First Time (2012), Chinese reality show, Sisters Who Make Waves. She was eliminated at the fourth performance. Since then, she has featured in First Time (2015), Sophie in Youth Power (2015), Fiona in Swimming Battle (2016), Inference Notes (推理筆記; 2017), Jenny in Memory Love (2017), Secret Lover (愛情教會我的事 – 秘密情人; 2018), Between .(三明治女孩的逆袭; 2018).


== Influences ==
Yen's musical life was influenced by the Western culture, where she grew up. During her consent for recording her music, they were rejected as not suitable for Asia especially the Chinese music, which barely uses R&B and soul music genres.


== Legacy ==
In January 2010, Yen became TVBS' spokesperson for their "Lotus" charity event.


=== Awards and nominations ===


== Discography ==
Solo albums

Cindy Yen (2009)
2 be different (2011)
Fight For Love (2015)
The Moment EP (2018)
Collaborations

Smile (Featuring Jay Chou) (2012)
What's Wrong (Featuring Jay Chou) (2014)
I Want Me (Featuring Della Dang) (2020)


== References ==


== External links ==

Cindy Yen at IMDb

Konstantin Aleksandrovich Zubov (Russian: Константин Александрович Зубов; 20 September 1888 – 22 November 1956) was a Soviet and Russian actor, film and theater director and pedagogue. People's Artist of the USSR (1949). He was a four-time recipient of the Stalin Prize (1946, 1947, 1948, 1951).


== Biography ==
Konstantin Zubov was born in the village of Bazarny Syzgan (now an urban-type settlement in Ulyanovsk Oblast, Russia), although other sources give Vyatka as his birthplace, and his passport listed Leningrad, into the family of Aleksandr Vasilyevich Zubov, a feldfebel, and Aleksandra Semyonovna Zubova.
In 1895, the Zubov family moved from Simbirsk Governorate to Vyatka Governorate, where his father obtained a position as a teacher at a boys' gymnasium.
Zubov developed an interest in theatre at an early age, but his parents did not share it. After graduating from gymnasium in 1904, they sent him to study at a technical school in Nancy, France, where he was expected to train as an engineer. A year later, he changed institutions and enrolled in the Faculty of History and Philology at the University of Paris. In 1906, he returned to Russia and continued his studies at the same faculty of Saint Petersburg University, while also attending the Dramatic Courses of the Saint Petersburg Imperial Theatre School (now the Russian State Institute of Performing Arts), where he studied acting under Vladimir Davydov and graduated in 1910.
In 1908, he began his professional stage career in Vladimir Davydov's summer touring troupe; his first role was Alyosha in The Children of Vanyushin by Sergey Naydyonov. He later studied at the School of Stage Art run by Aleksandr Sanin and Aleksandr Petrovsky. From 1910 to 1915, apart from the 1913–1914 season, when he worked at the Samara Drama Theatre, he performed in Nikolai Sinelnikov's company in Kharkiv and Kyiv. From 1915 to 1917, he acted at the Korsh Theatre in Moscow.
From 1917 to 1918, he headed the Actors' Association of the Irkutsk Drama Theatre, where he first worked as a director. From 1918 to 1919, he was an actor and director at M. A. Smolensky's theatre in Harbin; from 1919 to 1921, at Y. M. Dolin's theatre in Vladivostok; from 1921 to 1924, he was an actor, artistic director, and chief director of the First State Far Eastern Military-Revolutionary Theatre in Khabarovsk, Vladivostok, and Harbin; from 1924 to 1925, chief director of the Chita State Theatre; from 1925 to 1931, actor, director, and troupe manager at the Moscow Theatre of Revolution; from 1931 to 1933, actor at the Moscow Theatre of the Moscow Council of Trade Unions (now the Mossovet Theatre); and from 1932 to 1938, artistic director of the Moscow Lensoviet Theatre, which was later merged with the Theatre of Revolution.
From 1936, he was an actor and director at the Maly Theatre, and from 1947 its chief director.
His work was noted for its intellectual quality, vivid theatricality, and psychological depth. He was regarded as a master of dialogue.
He also appeared in films.
From 1920 onward, he was engaged in teaching, lecturing at the theatre school attached to the Maly Theatre (now the Mikhail Shchepkin Higher Theatre School); in 1946, he became a professor. His students included Tatyana Pankova, Pavel Luspekayev, Eduard Martsevich, and Igor Kirillov.
He was a deputy of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR of the 4th convocation (1955–1956).
Konstantin Zubov died in Moscow on 22 November 1956. He was buried at Novodevichy Cemetery (plot No. 2).


== Selected filmography ==
1916 — Nelli Raintseva
1917 — The Revolutionary
1928 — The Lame Gentleman
1933 — Marionettes
1940 — Yakov Sverdlov


== References ==


== External links ==
Константин Зубов on kino-teatr.ru
Konstantin Zubov at IMDb

The 2023 Engie Open Nantes Atlantique was a professional tennis tournament played on indoor hard courts. It was the nineteenth edition of the tournament which was part of the 2023 ITF Women's World Tennis Tour. It took place in Nantes, France between 30 October and 5 November 2023.


== Champions ==


=== Singles ===

 Océane Dodin def.  Gabriela Knutson, 6–7(2–7), 6–3, 6–2


=== Doubles ===

 Ali Collins /  Yuriko Miyazaki def.  Emily Appleton /  Isabelle Haverlag, 7–6(7–4), 6–2


== Singles main draw entrants ==


=== Seeds ===

1 Rankings are as of 23 October 2023.


=== Other entrants ===
The following players received wildcards into the singles main draw:

 Émeline Dartron
 Amandine Hesse
 Tiphanie Lemaître
 Mallaurie Noël
The following player received entry as a junior exempt:

 Sofia Costoulas
The following players received entry from the qualifying draw:

 Emily Appleton
 Nahia Berecoechea
 Manon Léonard
 Diana Martynov
 Chloé Noël
 Veronika Podrez
 Tina Nadine Smith
 Lian Tran
The following player received entry as a lucky loser:

 Matilda Mutavdzic


== References ==


== External links ==
2023 Engie Open Nantes Atlantique at ITFtennis.com
Official website

Dear Jackie is a Canadian documentary film, directed by Henri Pardo and released in 2021. Conceived as a love letter to Jackie Robinson, the film explores the way the city of Montreal used its embrace of Robinson, when he played for the Montreal Royals in the 1940s, to construct a mythical image of itself as a post-racial city that had moved beyond anti-black racism, even while Black residents of the city's Little Burgundy neighbourhood were still suffering profound effects of racism in reality.
The film premiered at the 2021 Montreal International Documentary Festival, where Pardo won the Magnus Isacsson Award for socially conscious works by emerging Canadian filmmakers. It had a commercial release in June 2022.
The film was a nominee for the Donald Brittain Award for best social or political television documentary at the 11th Canadian Screen Awards in 2023.


== References ==


== External links ==
Dear Jackie at IMDb

The New York City Council is the lawmaking body of New York City in the United States. It has 51 members from 51 council districts throughout the five boroughs.
The council serves as a check against the mayor in a mayor-council government model, oversees the performance of city agencies' land use decisions, and legislates on a variety of other issues. It also has sole responsibility for approving the city budget. Members elected are limited to two consecutive four-year terms in office but may run again after a four-year respite.
The head of the city council is called the speaker. The current speaker is Julie Menin, a Democrat from the 5th district. The speaker sets the agenda and presides at city council meetings, and all proposed legislation is submitted through the Speaker's Office. Majority Leader Kamillah Hanks leads the chamber's Democratic majority. Minority Leader David Carr was elected to lead the five Republican council members on January 28, 2025, however the vote was disputed due to a quorum not being present.
As of 2025, the council has 35 standing committees and 4 subcommittees, with oversight of various functions of the city government. Each council member sits on at least three standing, select or subcommittees (listed below). The standing committees meet at least once per month. The speaker of the council, the majority leader, and the minority leader are all ex officio members of every committee.
Council members are elected every four years. The exception is two consecutive two-year terms every twenty years to allow for redistricting after each national census (starting in 2001 and 2003 for the 2000 census and again in 2021 and 2023 for the 2020 census).


== Composition ==

An asterisk (*) next to the election year denotes a special election. A double asterisk (**) next to the election year means the member took office after certification to fill the remainder of an unexpired term.


== Salary ==
Council members currently receive $148,500 a year in base salary, which the council increased from $112,500 in early 2016. The salary raise came with new ethics guidelines and restrictions; most outside income is prohibited, and members no longer receive additional compensation for serving on committees.


== Law ==

The New York City Charter is the fundamental law of the government of New York City including the council. The New York City Administrative Code is the codification of the laws promulgated by the council and is composed of 29 titles. The regulations promulgated by city agencies pursuant to law are contained in the Rules of the City of New York in 71 titles.
A local law has a status equivalent with a law enacted by the legislature (subject to certain exceptions and restrictions), and is superior to the older forms of municipal legislation such as ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations. Each local government must designate a newspaper of notice to publish or describe its laws. The secretary of state is responsible for publishing local laws as a supplement to the Laws of New York (the "session laws" of the state), but they have not done so in recent years. The New York City Charter, the New York City Administrative Code, and the Rules of the City of New York are published online by the New York Legal Publishing Corp. under contract with the New York City Law Department.


== History ==
The history of the New York City Council can be traced to Dutch colonial times when New York City was known as New Amsterdam. On February 2, 1653, the town of New Amsterdam, founded on the southern tip of Manhattan Island in 1625, was incorporated as a city under a charter issued by the Dutch West India Company. A Council of Legislators sat as the local lawmaking body and as a court of inferior jurisdiction. During the 18th and 19th centuries the local legislature was called the Common Council and then the Board of Aldermen. In 1898 the amalgamation charter of the City of Greater New York renamed and revamped the council and added a New York City Board of Estimate with certain administrative and financial powers. After a number of changes through the ensuing years, the present Council was born in 1938 under a new charter which instituted the council as the sole legislative body and the New York City Board of Estimate as the chief administrative body. Certain functions of the council, however, remained subject to the approval of the board.

In 1938, a system of proportional representation known as single transferable vote was adopted; a fixed quota of 75,000 votes was set, so that the size of the council fluctuated with voter turnout. The term was extended to four years in 1945 to coincide with the term of the mayor. Proportional representation was abolished in 1947, largely from pressure from Democrats, who played on fears of Communist council members being elected (two, Peter V. Cacchione and Benjamin J. Davis Jr., already had). It was replaced by a system of electing one council member from each New York State Senate district within the city. The Charter also provided for the election of two council members-at-large from each of the five boroughs. In June 1983, however, a federal court ruled that the 10 at-large seats violated the United States Constitution's one-person, one-vote mandate.
In 1989, the U.S. Supreme Court held that the Board of Estimate's structure was inconsistent with the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment because, although the boroughs had widely disparate populations, each had equal representation on the board. In response, the new Charter abolished the Board of Estimate and provided for the redrawing of the council district lines to increase minority representation on the council. It also increased the number of Council Members from 35 to 51. The council was then granted full power over the municipal budget, as well as authority over zoning, land use and franchises. In 1993 the New York City Council voted to rename the position of president of the city council to the public advocate. As the presiding officer, the public advocate was an ex officio member of all committees in the council, and in that capacity had the right to introduce and co-sponsor legislation. However the city charter revision of 2002 transferred the duties of presiding officer from the public advocate to the council speaker; the public advocate remains a non-voting member of the council.
In 2022, the composition of first female majority City Council included the first Muslim woman, the first South Asian members, and the first openly gay Black woman.


=== Term limits ===
A two-term limit was imposed on city council members and citywide elected officials in a 1993 referendum. The movement to introduce term limits was led by Ronald Lauder, the heir to the Estée Lauder fortune. In 1996, voters turned down a council proposal to extend term limits. Lauder spent $4 million on the two referendums.
However, in 2008, under pressure from Mayor Michael Bloomberg (who, like many Council members, was facing the end of his two-term limit at that time), the council voted 29–22 to extend the limit to three terms; the council also defeated (by a vote of 22–28, with one abstention) a proposal to submit the issue to public referendum.
Legal challenges to the extension of term limits failed in federal court. The original decision by Judge Charles Sifton of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York (Long Island, Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island) was upheld by a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Vermont, Connecticut and New York), and a proposal in the New York State Legislature to override the extension was not passed.
Voters voted to reinstate the two-term limit law in another referendum in 2010. However, according to The New York Times, incumbent members of the city council who were elected prior to the 2010 referendum "will still be allowed to run for a third term. People in office before 2010 were eligible for three terms."


== Presiding officers since 1898 ==
Through several changes in title and duties, this person has been, together with the mayor and city comptroller, one of the three municipal officers directly elected by all of the city's voters, and also the person who—when the elected mayor resigns, dies, or otherwise loses the ability to serve—becomes acting mayor until the next special or regular election.
Until 1989, these three officers, together with the five borough presidents, constituted the New York City Board of Estimate. Political campaigns have traditionally tried to balance their candidates for these three offices to appeal as wide a range of the city's political, geographical, social, ethnic and religious constituencies as possible (and, when possible, to both genders).


=== Notes ===
a. Became acting mayor upon the death or resignation of the elected mayor.
b. Later won election as mayor.
c. Unsuccessful candidate for mayor in a subsequent general election.
d. Not elected by citywide popular vote (Ardolph Kline had been elected deputy president by his fellow aldermen, and then succeeded as president upon Mitchel's resignation).


== Standing committees ==


== Caucuses ==
According to the council's website, there are a number of caucuses in the council, wherein members who self-identify with the caucus purported community may be members: 

Animal Welfare Caucus
Black, Latino and Asian (BLA) Caucus
Common-Sense Caucus
Irish Caucus
Italian Caucus
Jewish Caucus
LGBT Caucus
Progressive Caucus
Women's Caucus


== See also ==
Government of New York City
Mayor of New York City
New York City Civil Court
New York City Criminal Court
La Guardia and Wagner Archives


== References ==


== External links ==

New York City Council main page
La Guardia and Wagner Archives/The Council of the City of New York Collection Archived August 8, 2012, at the Wayback Machine
David W. Chen, Council Gets a Charge From Vote on Term Limits, New York Times, New York edition, October 25, 2008, page A18, retrieved the same day. (Discusses changes in the council's degree of independence and authority in relation to the mayor's powers.)
NYS Go
New York Forum
Councilpedia, a Wiki about the city council (inactive since January 2013)
New York City Charter, the New York City Administrative Code, and the Rules of the City of New York from the New York Legal Publishing Corp.

Nueva Esperanza is a municipality and village in Santiago del Estero Province in Argentina. It was initially established in the mid 1980s by Mennonites, though other immigrant communities of non-Mennonite origin also exist nowadays.  


== References ==

Lindsay Bushman is an American former actress who is best known for her role on The Young and the Restless as Summer Newman.


== Early life ==
Lindsay Bushman's small screen debut was on CW's The Ringer in 2011. She portrayed Erica described as a 'hot mess'.


== Career ==
She made her feature film debut in the film Hello Herman.
On May 11, 2012, it was announced the Bushman had been cast in the role of the Summer Newman in The Young and the Restless. Bushman made her first appearance on June 8, 2012 on a recurring basis. Nelson Branco of TV Guide Canada announced the news of Bushman's departure in his magazine, Soap Opera Uncensored in September 2012.
Bushman had a small bit role on General Hospital as a young Kate Howard in a flashback. Bushman revealed that she got the audition thanks to her agent and booked the role after a few callbacks and chemistry reads.


== Filmography ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Lindsay Bushman's official website
Lindsay Bushman on X 
Lindsay Bushman's IMDB profile
tv.com
http://www.cbs.com/shows/the_young_and_the_restless/photos/114293/the-39th-annual-daytime-emmy-awards/10860/
http://tvsourcemagazine.com/2012/05/2623-lindsay-bushman-max-ehrich-cast-as-yrs-new-summer-fen/

Stig Kalstad (born 1 November 1973) is a former Norwegian biathlete.


== Life and career ==
Kalstad was born in Meldal Municipality in the central part of Norway.
Kalstad debuted at the Junior World Championships in 1992 in Canmore. The first event was the team event, which was a partial success, as the Norwegian team composed of Kalstad, Ole Einar Bjørndalen and Dag Ivar Hovde won bronze. Kalstad subsequently came 19th in the 10 km sprint, missing twice and finishing one minute and forty seconds behind the winner, René König. Kalstad was not selected for the 15 km two days later. Kalstad was selected for the final distance, the relay, but that race turned out a disappointment. Kalstad finished 6th having raced alongside Frode Andresen, Ole Einar Bjørndalen and Dag Ivar Hovde, and having taken the first leg. Kalstad received two penalty loops in his standing shoot, putting his team out of medal contention, and sending off Andresen from the first exchange three minutes behind the leaders.
Though a talented junior, Kalstad did not perform well enough the following season to be selected for the 1993 Junior World Championships in Ruhpolding, nor did he develop further in his senior years. Thus, Kalstad was never selected for the World Cup team and never raced in the World Cup.
At home, though, Kalstad was not without success. He won one medal at the Norwegian Biathlon Championships, a bronze in the relay in 1994 in Trondheim. Additionally, Kalstad won a bronze in the relay at the Junior Norwegian Championships in 1992 in his hometown of Meldal.


== References ==

Belait CSS-1 is a well intervention vessel and accommodation platform owned by Belait Shipping. She can provide places for accommodations, and perform maintenance, rescue, and hoist activities. She has a sister ship named Belait CSS-2, commissioned four years after CSS-1.


== Construction and career ==
Construction of Belait CSS-1 was commissioned by Belait CSS Sendirian Berhad, an SPV Company registered in Brunei Darussalam. Belait CSS-1 was primarily built as a well-intervention vessel to support production of oil in Brunei. She cost about 526 million yuan ($80 million), was built in Fujian, China and registered in Muara, Brunei.
Belait CSS-1 was undocked from the shipyard on 7 December 2013 and delivered to Brunei on 25 February 2015. She regularly travels to the Champion Field, which is a complex oil and gas field, situated 40 kilometres (25 mi) north-northwest of Bandar Seri Begawan, in water depths of 10 to 45 metres. She usually docks in Muara Port, Brunei after every return voyages.


== Equipment ==
The CSS is a multi-function well-intervention, supply, and light construction vessel, with accommodation for workers. It is equipped with a 150 t lattice boom crane, a telescopic heave compensated gangway, a moonpool, a 12.8 t rated helideck, DP-2 rating, and accommodation up to 200 people.
She was designed by Vard Marine. The CSS is a cost-effective, stable platform with most of the capabilities of much larger vessels at a far lower cost. In addition, the design can be built at shipyards around the world.


== Gallery ==


== References ==

Babacar Mbaye Gueye (born 2 March 1986) is a Senegalese former professional footballer who played as a forward. At international level, he played for the Senegal national team.


== Club career ==
Born in Dakar, Gueye began his career with Génération Foot and joined FC Metz in 2002. On 27 January 2009, the Senegalese striker was loaned to CS Sedan where he remained until June 2009. On 23 July 2009, he signed a four-year contract with German club Alemannia Aachen for a transfer fee of €500,000. During the summer break, he agreed to a one-year loan spell at FSV Frankfurt. Gueye made his first game for his new club on the season opener at home against Union Berlin, on 15 July 2011. He failed to score from the penalty spot in the dying seconds of injury time, thus the game ended in a 1–1 draw.
Gueye transferred to China League One club Shenzhen Ruby on 28 February 2012. He won two successive top scorers of the league between 2012 and 2013.


== International career ==
Gueye was a member of the Senegal national team with 25 appearances and six goals.


== Personal life ==
His younger brother is ex-Metz midfielder Ibrahima Gueye who now plays for CS Louhans-Cuiseaux and his cousin is Momar N'Diaye, who also played for Metz.


== Career statistics ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Babacar Gueye at National-Football-Teams.com
Babacar Gueye at Soccerway
Babacar Gueye – French league stats at LFP – also available in French (archived)
Babacar Gueye at fussballdaten.de (in German)

Ladipo  (alternatively spelled Ọládípọ̀) is both a Yoruba surname and a given name meaning "Wealth and Prosperity becomes plenty".


== Notable people with the name ==
Surname

Duro Ladipo (1931–1978), Nigerian dramatist
Kehinde Oluwatoyin Ladipo, Nigerian geologist
Margaret Ladipo (born 1961), Nigerian academic
Sarah Ladipo Manyika (born 1968), Nigerian-British writer
Sule Ladipo (born 1974), Nigerian tennis player
Given name:

Ladipo Oluwole (1892–1953), Nigerian physician
Ladipo Adamolekun (born 1942), Nigerian academic
Ladipo Solanke (c. 1886–1958), Nigerian activist


== References ==

Australeuma is a genus of Tasmanian millipede in the family Metopidiotrichidae.


== Species ==
The following species are recognised within this genus:

Australeuma gladifer Shear & Mesibov, 1997
Australeuma golovatchi Shear & Mesibov, 1997
Australeuma jeekeli Golovatch, 1986
Australeuma mauriesi Shear & Mesibov, 1997
Australeuma peckorum Shear & Mesibov, 1997
Australeuma simile Golovatch, 1986


== References ==

A stackable switch is a network switch that is fully functional operating standalone but which can also be set up to operate together with one or more other network switches, with this group of switches showing the characteristics of a single switch but having the port capacity of the sum of the combined switches.
The term stack refers to the group of switches that have been set up in this way.
The common characteristic of a stack acting as a single switch is that there is a single IP address for remote administration of the stack as a whole, not an IP address for the administration of each unit in the stack.  
Stackable switches are customarily Ethernet, rack-mounted, managed switches of 1–2 rack unit (RU) in size, with a fixed set of data ports on the front.  Some models have slots for optional slide-in modules to add ports or features to the base stackable unit.  The most common configurations are 24-port and 48-port models.


== Comparison with other switch architectures ==
A stackable switch is distinct from a standalone switch, which only operates as a single entity.  A stackable switch is distinct from a switch modular chassis.  


=== Benefits ===
Stackable switches have these benefits:

Simplified network administration:  Whether a stackable switch operates alone or “stacked” with other units, there is always just a single management interface for the network administrator to deal with. This simplifies the setup and operation of the network.
Scalability:  A small network can be formed around a single stackable unit, and then the network can grow with additional units over time if and when needed, with little added management complexity.
Deployment flexibility:  Stackable switches can operate together with other stackable switches or can operate independently.  Units one day can be combined as a stack in a single site, and later can be run in different locations as independent switches.
Resilient connections:  In some vendor architectures, active connections can be spread across multiple units so that should one unit in a stack be removed or fail, data will continue to flow through other units that remain functional.
Improving backplane: A series of switches, when stacked together, improves the backplane of the switches in stack also.


=== Drawbacks ===
Compared with a modular chassis switch, stackable switches have these drawbacks:

For locations needing numerous ports, a modular chassis may cost less.  With stackable switching, each unit in a stack has its own enclosure and at minimum a single power supply.  With modular switching, there is one enclosure and one set of power supplies.
High-end modular switches have high-resiliency / high-redundancy features not available in all stackable architectures.
Additional overhead when sending stacking data between switches. Some stacking protocols add additional headers to frames, further increasing overhead.


== Functionality ==
Features associated with stackable switches can include:

Single IP address for multiple units.  Multiple switches can share one IP address for administrative purposes, thus conserving IP addresses.
Single management view from multiple interfaces.  Stack-level views and commands can be provided from a single command line interface (CLI) and/or embedded Web interface.  The SNMP view into the stack can be unified.
Stacking resiliency.  Multiple switches can have ways to bypass a “down” switch in a stack, thus allowing the remaining units to function as a stack even with a failed or removed unit.
Layer 3 redundancy.  Some stackable architectures allow for continued Layer 3 routing if there is a “down” switch in a stack.  If routing is centralized in one unit in the stack, and that unit fails, then there must be a recovery mechanism to move routing to a backup unit in the stack.
Mix and match of technology.  Some stackable architectures allow for mixing switches of different technologies or from different product families, yet still achieve unified management.  For example, some stacking allows for mixing of 10/100 and gigabit switches in a stack.
Dedicated stacking bandwidth.  Some switches come with built-in ports dedicated for stacking, which can preserve other ports for data network connections and can avoid the possible expense of an additional module to add stacking.  Proprietary data handling or cables can be used to achieve higher bandwidths than standard gigabit or 10-gigabit connections.
Link aggregation of ports on different units in the stack.  Some stacking technologies allow for link aggregation from ports on different stacked switches either to other switches not in the stack (for example a core network) or to allow servers and other devices to have multiple connections to the stack for improved redundancy and throughput.  Not all stackable switches support link aggregation across the stack.
There is not universal agreement as to the threshold for being a stackable versus being a standalone switch.  Some companies call their switches stackable if they support a single IP address for multiple units even if they lack other features from this list.  Some industry analysts have said a product is not a stackable if it lacks one of the above features (e.g., dedicated bandwidth).


== Terminology ==
Here are other terms associated with stackable switches:

Stacking backplane
Used to describe the connections between stacked units, and the bandwidth of that connection.  Most typically, switches that have primarily Fast Ethernet ports would have at minimum gigabit connections for its stacking backplane; likewise, switches that primarily have Gigabit Ethernet ports would have at minimum 10-gigabit connections.
Clustering
The term sometimes used for a stacking approach that focuses on unified management with a single IP address for multiple stackable units.  Units can be distributed and of multiple types.
Stack master or commander
In some stack architectures, one unit is designated the main unit of the stack.  All management is routed through that single master unit.  Some call this the master or commander unit.  Other units in the stack are referred to as slave or member units.


== See also ==
Comparison of stackable switches
Modular computer network switch


== Further reading ==
What is a “Stackable Management Switch”?, EUSSO Technologies, 2003.
Small Business Stackable Switch White Paper, NETGEAR Inc., 2001.
Cisco StackWise and StackWise Plus Technology, Cisco Systems.

Salora International Limited is an Indian conglomerate and the flagship company of the Jiwarajka Group. Their business spans the complete supply chain, and includes logistics, service, manufacturing and distribution.
The company went public in March 1993.


== References ==

The siege of al-Fu'ah and Kafriya was a siege of the towns of al-Fu'ah and Kafriya in the Idlib Governorate, towns with majority Shia populations and controlled by the Syrian government during the Syrian civil war. The siege began with a Sunni Islamist rebel assault on the capital of the province in March 2015, resulting in the capture of Idlib. On 18 July 2018, the besieged government forces reached an agreement with Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham-led rebels to evacuate them and civilians from the two towns.


== The siege ==


=== 2015 ===
On 28 March 2015, after four days of fighting, rebels captured Idlib city and managed to besiege the towns of Kafriya and al‐Fu'ah, resulting in thousands of civilians being trapped in the two settlements. The Army of Conquest rebel alliance and one of its main components, al-Nusra Front, imposed a full siege, blocking all humanitarian supplies to the towns; the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights (SOHR) reported several executions of people accused of smuggling goods into Kafriya and al‐Fu'ah.
In July 2015, the battle of Zabadani began as Hezbollah and the Syrian Army launched an offensive against rebel-held al-Zabadani, as part of the Qalamoun offensive. The pro-government attack on Zabadani and the concurrent rebel siege of Kafriya and al-Fu'ah became linked in negotiations.
On 2 August, Army of Conquest announced it would continue its operations against the besieged enclave of Kafriya and al-Fu'ah. On 10 August, the rebels launched an assault on al-Fu'ah after detonating a car bomb and tunnel bomb, advancing towards it. A temporary ceasefire in Zabadani and the two Idlib towns was put in place after negotiations between Ahrar al-Sham rebels and an Iranian delegation in Turkey, but these collapsed in late August after the government refused the rebel demand to release 1,500 female detainees, according to Ahrar al-Sham.

On 31 August, Army of Conquest rebels launched a powerful attack on the enclave and captured al-Suwaghiyah, forcing the government soldiers to retreat to Tal Khirbat. Opposition media reported that the village of Deir al-Zaghab, due south of Kafariya and southeast of al-Fu'ah, had also been captured by rebels, but pro-government media said the pro-government forces had repelled an attack on the area. There were two days of protests in pro-government areas across Syria, including Sayeda Zainab, Homs and Latakia, calling on the government to save the civilians trapped in the siege; protesters burned tires and blocked the Damascus International Airport road. The government blamed the demonstrations on "young anarchists".
Between 3 and 5 September, government sources reported that the rebels intensively shelled the enclave and launched a number of attacks on al-Fu'ah and Kafriya from Maarrat Misrin, al-Suwaghiyah and Idlib city. The attacks were repelled, with the Syrian Army reportedly destroying three armoured vehicles.
On 18 September, the rebels launched a new attack on the enclave, firing almost 400 shells and rockets, while nine car bombs (including seven suicide bombers) were detonated at government positions. The clashes led to the death of at least 29 rebels and 21 Syrian soldiers, as well as seven civilians. The SOHR reported that the rebels gained some ground, though Iranian media said National Defence Forces and Hezbollah were able to defend their positions. Ajnad al-Sham threatened on social media to shell Fu'ah and Kafriya with over 100 mortars a day. On 19 September, SOHR reported that rebels advanced again in the vicinity of al-Fuah, capturing Tal Al-Khirbat and a number of checkpoints around it according to pro-government sources. According to government claims, the rebels lost over 100 fighters, including 31 foreign fighters.
On 20 September, a second cease-fire in al-Zabadani/Madaya and al-Fou'aa/Kafriya was implemented, where the rebels allowed humanitarian aid to the besieged civilians of al-Fu'ah and Kafriya. A violation of this cease-fire was reported the next day as the rebels resumed shelling the towns. Rebels again violated the cease-fire by shelling the towns at the end of the month, but the overall cease-fire held. The Iranian Air Force began to airdrop supplies for al-Fu'ah and Kafriya using two Lockheed C-130 Hercules in October.


=== 2016 ===
On 11 January 2016, the International Committee of the Red Cross and the World Food Programme organized an aid convoy to deliver food, medicine and other aid to Kafriya and Fu'ah, along with Madaya in the south.
On 21 July, two ill civilians from Fu'ah and Kafriya were evacuated to Latakia by the Syrian Arab Red Crescent, in return for two ill civilians also being evacuated from Zabadani to Idlib. Medical and food aid arrived to the towns, in addition to Qalaat al-Madiq.
At the end of September, 52 aid trucks went to Zabadani and Madaya and 19 arrived in Fu'ah and Kafriya.
On 21 November, rebel shelling and sniper fire killed at least one civilian in Fu'ah and Kafriya.
From 3–6 December, more than 10 civilians in Fu'ah and Kafriya were killed by rebel shelling, in retaliation to the Syrian Air Force bombings throughout the governorate which killed more than 121 civilians.
On 18 December, a group of busses from Aleppo headed toward Fu'ah and Kafriya in order to evacuate 2,500 civilians there as part of an agreement that would also evacuate the remaining civilians from the former rebel-held districts of Aleppo after the offensive. En route, 6 buses were attacked and burned by fighters from the al-Nusra Front, preventing the evacuation. Two days later, more than 1,000 people from Fu'ah and Kafriya left the towns in the buses and headed to Aleppo.


=== 2017 ===
In January 2017, according to SOHR, rebels shelled al-Fu'ah, which led to several injuries. In mid-March, Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) captured Tall Umm A'anoun hill from the NDF in an attempt to cut the road linking Fu'ah and Kafriya.
On 28 March, an agreement was brokered by Qatar and signed by Ahrar al-Sham, HTS, Hezbollah and Iran, for the evacuation of Fu'ah and Kafriya in exchange for the evacuation of residents and rebels in Zabadani and Madaya. The agreement came into effect beginning on 12 April and buses and ambulances arrived in the four towns with the assistance of the Syrian Arab Red Crescent to begin the evacuations. The Free Syrian Army condemned the agreement, considering it to establish a dangerous precedent of ethnic and sectarian cleansing in preparation for redrawing the borders of the Syrian state, as well as a crime against humanity and contrary to article 7, paragraph (d), of the Statute of the International Criminal Court.
On 14 April 75 buses and 20 ambulances evacuated around 5,000 people from Fu'ah and Kafriya to Aleppo. On 15 April, a convoy of buses carrying evacuees was attacked by a suicide bomber west of Aleppo, killing more than 100 people.
In September, seven trucks carrying medical supplies, food and an electric generator were allowed by the rebels into the besieged towns, while the government in exchange allowed supplies into the insurgent-held Yarmouk Camp.


=== 2018 ===
On 17 March 2018, FSA fighters of "Saraya Darayya", a group formed by rebels from Damascus who had been exiled to Idlib following the end of the siege of Darayya and Muadamiyat, assaulted NDF positions in the two towns. Pro-government sources claimed that the attacks had failed, while Saraya Darayya claimed to have killed many NDF fighters.
On 17 July, Iranian negotiators reached an agreement with Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham, with Turkey as a mediator, to evacuate the former's forces and civilians, totaling between 6,500 and 7,000 people, from Fu'ah and Kafriya. A total of 121 buses accompanied by Syrian Arab Red Crescent ambulances entered the two towns the next day. The buses were attacked by HTS fighters with stones, but departed on the morning of 19 July. In return, the government released 1,500 detainees and rebel fighters from its prisons, of which at least 400 were transported to Idlib on the same day.


== Aftermath ==
During the evacuations, 126 unarmed civilians, the majority of which were children were killed via suicide bombing before they could make it into the safety of government-held territory. Following the evacuation, the surviving civilians from al-Fu'ah and Kafriya were mostly resettled to Hisyah in Homs Governorate and al-Basit in Latakia Governorate. Smaller numbers of refugees also moved to Aleppo, Damascus, Nubl, and al-Zahraa.


== See also ==

Siege of Nubl and Al-Zahraa
Siege of Deir ez-Zor (2014–17)
Battle of Zabadani (2015)
2015 Zabadani cease-fire agreement


== Notes ==


== References ==


=== Works cited ===
Ripley, Tim (2018). Operation Aleppo: Russia's War in Syria. Lancaster: Telic-Herrick Publications. ISBN 978-0-9929458-2-4.

Rachel Rodriguez-Williams is an American Republican politician and businesswoman serving as a member of the Wyoming House of Representatives from the 50th district. Elected in November 2020, she assumed office on January 4, 2021.


== Early life and education ==
A native of northern California, Rodriguez-Williams earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in criminal justice and law enforcement administration from Sonoma State University and a Master of Science in criminal justice from Columbia Southern University.


== Career ==
Rodriguez-Williams worked as a law enforcement officer in Marin County. She moved to Cody, Wyoming, in 2007. From 2017 to 2023, she was the director of the Serenity Pregnancy Resource Center in Wyoming, and served on the board of a number of local organizations.


== Political career ==
After David Northrup chose not to run again, Rodriguez-Williams and Johnson Bennett ran against each other. Rodriguez-Williams received 4,370 votes (77%), while Bennett only received 1,240 votes (22%). The district encompasses the cities of Ralston, Heart Mountain, Sunlight, Crandall, the Willwood area south of Powell, and the eastern part of the Cody.
Rodriguez-Williams was elected to the Wyoming House of Representatives in November 2020 and assumed office on January 4, 2021.


=== Tenure ===
Rodriguez-Williams sponsored House Bill 175, which would have required school districts to provide suicide awareness and prevention programs to Wyoming students grades six through 12. However, the bill died in the house.
While a state-owned office building was being constructed in Casper, Rodriguez-Williams voted in favor of a bill that would've named the building after former Wyoming representative John S. Wold. However, the bill failed in the house on a vote of 14–46, and the building was instead named after Thyra Thomson, who served as the Secretary of State of Wyoming from 1963 to 1987. The building opened in April 2022.
In 2023, Rodriguez-Williams sponsored H.B. 152, the Life Is a Human Right Act, which would make surgical and medication-assisted abortions illegal. She said that "other states are pushing an extreme abortion agenda, comparable to North Korea's and China's inhumane laws". The new law attempts to circumvent an interpretation of the Wyoming Constitution that protects citizens' "right to make one's own health care decisions", stating that "[i]nstead of being health care, abortion is the intentional termination of the life of an unborn baby."
Rodriguez-Williams is also a member of WYCAN, Wyoming Citizens Against Normalization, a group that is dedicated to the prohibition of cannabis products in Wyoming.


== References ==

Zhang Xiu may refer to:

Zhang Xiu (warlord) (張繡; died 207), minor warlord of the late Han Dynasty
Zhang Xiu (Eastern Wu) (張休), Eastern Wu official in the Three Kingdoms period, son of Zhang Zhao
Li Yan (Wu) (李儼; died 918), né Zhang Xiu (張休), Tang Dynasty official

Drouin ( DREW-in) is a town in the West Gippsland region, 90 kilometres (56 mi) east of Melbourne in Victoria, Australia. Its local government area is the Shire of Baw Baw, and is home to the shire council's headquarters despite being the second-largest town in the shire, behind neighbouring Warragul. Settlement in this part of Gippsland was rather delayed due to the dense forest. Pastoral runs were taken up but little developed. In 1867, a coach staging station was established on the track into Gippsland on the Old Sale Road at Brandy Creek, later known as Buln Buln about seven kilometres north-east of present Drouin. By the early 1870s, a small settlement had developed and land was being selected in the area.
New housing developments have accelerated the town's residential growth in recent years. As at the 2016 census, Drouin had a population of 11,887 people.


== History ==
The traditional owners of the Drouin area are the Kulin and Kurnai Aboriginal people, who have lived in the area for tens of thousands of years. European settlement in this part of Gippsland was hampered by the dense forest. Pastoral runs were taken up but there was little other development.
In 1867, a coaching station was established at Brandy Creek, on the track into Gippsland, about 7 kilometres (4.3 mi) north-east of present Drouin. By the early 1870s, a small settlement had developed and land was being selected in the area. A post office opened on 5 April 1876, renamed Jindivick in 1878.
Between 1877 and 1879, the Gippsland railway line was constructed, connecting Melbourne with Gippsland. Workers' camps were set up along the route, which ran to the south of Brandy Creek, with three camps in the vicinity of Drouin. The Princes Highway was also constructed to run parallel to the railway, this highway replaced the Old Sale Road as the principal road rout into East Gippsland.
One of the railway camps and a stores depot was located at Drouin Junction. After the Brandy Creek rail section opened in 1878, a township was surveyed at Drouin Junction, soon known as Drouin. The town was named after a French engineer (Derouin) in charge of the camp and depot and employed in the construction of the railway. A post office named Drouin Junction opened on 1 January 1877 and was renamed Drouin in 1878. As Drouin developed, Brandy Creek, now called Buln Buln, had declined. When the Buln Buln Shire was formed in 1878, the administrative centre was located in Drouin. The new Tourists' Guide described the township in 1889, showing its substantial development.
Throughout the 1880s, a number of small sawmills operated in the Drouin district, many transporting their timber by tramway to the Drouin railway station. In the 1890s, a quarry was opened south-east of Drouin, the stone being carried by tramway to a railway siding east of Drouin. In 1913, the quarry was purchased and operated by the shire.

As land was cleared, dairy farming became the main industry. Initially, butter and cheese were made on the farm. A creamery operated from 1891 to 1895 and in 1904 a co-operative butter factory was established at Drouin. When this factory was extended in 1907, an electric light plant was installed which also provided light for the streets and homes of Drouin. The factory supplied fresh milk to the Melbourne market from 1915.
Over the years, the company acquired other dairy companies and enlarged its own operation, producing casein, skim milk and butter-oil, as well as butter and cheese. It became part of the Bonlac company, later taken over by Fonterra, which closed the factory, removing the town's biggest employer. Flax was grown around Drouin during the two world wars. A private factory operated for a while and, in 1941, the Australian government constructed a factory to manufacture canvas goods for military use.
In 2010, Drouin began a new period of rapid expansion through new land development. That was due to the re-zoning of land throughout the Drouin-Warragul region to residential use, as well as the growth of the Greater Melbourne region population. The first such development was the Jackson's View Estate, situated north of the centre of the town around McNeilly Park. Over 450 blocks were sold between 2010 and 2020, when the estate was fully sold off. The development was led by the Jackson family and its company, Cartagen Group, formed by businessman Alan Jackson, who was born in Drouin in 1936. The development company sponsored the Drouin Cricket Club for a number of years.
In 1904, the population of Drouin was 700. By 1933, there were just over 1,000 inhabitants and, by 1970, 2,750. From the 1970s, the subdivision of an industrial estate on the south-east edge of the town had encouraged the growth of light industry. A number of housing subdivisions have also been initiated, as well as rural residential subdivision on the fringes of the town.
The construction of the Princes Freeway, which bypassed Drouin, allowed the remodelling of the shopping centre. By 1981, the population was 3,492 and in 1991 was 4,100. The Victorian Municipal Directory described the town in 1994. The town forms part of a combined urban area that includes Warragul. The estimated urban population for this area was 37,928 at June 2018, having grown on average 3.26% year-on-year for the preceding five years.


== Community ==
Drouin holds an annual Ficifolia Festival. Ficifolia are the flowering gum trees which occur throughout the town. The celebration includes the town gathering in the main street of Drouin to watch local schools and participating businesses showcase who they are and what they do. Every year there is a theme which participants in the festival are encouraged to incorporate into their float or costumes. The participants of the parade begin from the Drouin Football Oval, through the main street, and finish at Drouin Civic Park. Here, the town continues its celebration with bands playing in the park, food trucks, rides, market stalls, and finishes with a movie in the park and fireworks.
The town has an Australian rules football team playing in the Gippsland Football League, and a soccer team, Drouin Dragons Soccer Club, playing in the Gippsland Soccer League.
Drouin has a picnic horse-racing club, the Drouin Picnic Racing Club, which holds two race meetings a year, including the Drouin Cup on Boxing Day (26 December). The race track traverses part of the Drouin Golf & Country Club course.
Golfers play at the Drouin Golf and Country Club on Mcglones Road.
Since 1989, Drouin's sister city has been Barrhead, Alberta, Canada.


== Retail ==

Drouin's large retail stores include Woolworths and Coles supermarkets.
Other businesses in the town include fast food businesses, hairdressers, restaurants, Tattersall's, and Community Bank—Drouin & District (Bendigo Bank)
Several of the local businesses have relocated in recent times from the southern side of the shopping precinct on Princes Way (next to the railway station), due to land acquisition for the construction of a multi-storey retail shopping complex. Abbey's Cafe closed down, and the long-standing Drouin Cycles moved to a location on the other side of Princes Way.


== Local media ==


=== Newspapers ===
Drouin is served by three local papers—the weekly Warragul and Drouin Gazette, The Trader and the independent monthly and online paper the Warragul & Baw Baw Citizen.
According to the Warragul Regional Newspapers website, The Gazette and The Trader are distributed to locations from as far as Pakenham to Moe and from Poowong to Noojee.
The Warragul Citizen was established in 2011 as a quarterly print paper before becoming bimonthly in 2012, covering Warragul, Drouin and Yarragon. The paper's online news offering started in late 2011 and covers all of Baw Baw. The paper moved to being online-only in 2013, printing its last physical edition in February. It returned to print as a monthly tabloid covering all of Baw Baw in July 2014, changing its name to the Warragul & Baw Baw Citizen.


=== Radio ===
West Gippsland Community Radio (3BBR) is based in Drouin.
The radio reception available in Drouin also includes many of the Melbourne commercial stations (such as 105.1 Triple M, Smooth 91.5, 3AW 693, Nova 100), ABC Radio (774 ABC Melbourne, 96.7 Triple J and 100.7 ABC Gippsland), and Gippsland commercial stations 531 3GG, 94.3 Star FM, 99.5 TRFM and Gold 1242.


=== Television ===
Free-to-air digital television programs from ABC TV, SBS TV, Southern Cross 10, Seven and WIN TV are broadcast to the area from Mount Tassie in the Strzelecki Ranges, 68 km south-east of Drouin. Television transmissions from Mount Dandenong for the Melbourne market (Seven, Nine and Ten) can also be received in Drouin and Warragul with a suitable roof-top antenna.


== Notable people ==
Jean Battersby (1928–2009) – Arts executive
Alan Jackson (1936–2018) – Australian businessman and chief executive officer of Nylex and Chairman of Austrade. He and his family built the Jackson's View estate in Drouin during the 2010s.
Lionel Rose (1948–2011) – former world champion boxer and was the 1968 Australian of the Year from Jackson's Track, just outside Drouin. A statue of Rose was unveiled in 2010 in Warragul's Queen Street Park.
Gary Ablett Sr. (1961–present) – played for the Geelong Football Club in the AFL, and was named the greatest player in the club's history.
Lisa Gerrard (1961–present) – singer and composer and Golden Globe winner, resides in Drouin
Dale Thomas (1987–present) – former AFL footballer
Cyrus Monk (1996–present) – former Australian U23 Road Cycling Champion and World University Cycling Champion. Currently rides for EvoPro Racing on the European Tour


== Further reading ==
Butler, G. Buln Buln: a history of the Buln Buln Shire, 1979.
McCarthy, M. Settlers and sawmillers: a history of West Gippsland tramways and the industries they served, 1993.
Pretty, K.A. Buln Buln to Baw Baw: a history of the Shire of Buln Buln from 1978 to 1994 and its transition into the Baw Baw Shire, 1995.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Drouin, Victoria at Wikimedia Commons

Australian Places - Drouin
Baw Baw Shire
Drouin town and rural life during World War 2 1944 & 1945 Collection of photographs by Jim Fitzpatrick held in the Pictures Collection National Library, Canberra
Drouin: A Small Town at War at Culture Victoria

Trapezites maheta, the Maheta skipper or northern silver ochre, is a butterfly of the family Hesperiidae. It is found in Australia in Queensland and northern New South Wales.
The wingspan is about 30 mm.
The larvae feed on Lomandra hystrix and Lomandra multiflora.


== External links ==
Australian Caterpillars

Gordon Taylor Logan (born 3 October 1949) is a Scottish former footballer who played at right-back for Port Vale, Kettering Town and Bo'ness United. He helped Port Vale to win promotion out of the Fourth Division in 1969–70. His father was the footballer Rennie Logan, and his son, Grant Logan, played lawn bowls.


== Career ==
The son of former Hibernian and Falkirk footballer Rennie Logan, Logan attended Broxburn High School, played for Tynecastle Athletic and captained the county schools team to the final of the Scottish Schools' Cup. At the age of 16, he was signed to the Port Vale junior team by manager Stanley Matthews in June 1966. He captained the "Valiants" reserve team and played in the team that reached the FA Youth Cup quarter finals. He also won three caps for Scotland youth. He signed professional forms with the club in March 1967. He played seven Fourth Division games towards the end of the 1966–67 season. He played 17 matches in the 1967–68 campaign, though Matthews came into trouble when it was revealed that Logan had been paid illegal bonuses. He featured just four times in the 1968–69 season, as he fell out of favour under new boss Gordon Lee. Logan played nine league and five FA Cup games in the 1969–70 promotion campaign, and scored his first senior goal on 13 September, in a 3–2 win over Oldham Athletic at Boundary Park. He was given a free transfer to Southern League side Kettering Town in May 1970. He returned to Scotland to become a police officer in the summer of 1971. Also, he signed for SJFA side Bo'ness United, featuring regularly as a right-back for a team that reached the finals of the Brown Cup & R L Rae Cup that season.


== Family ==
His father, Rennie Logan, and his son, Grant Logan, both represented Scotland at lawn bowls.


== Career statistics ==


== Honours ==
Port Vale

Football League Fourth Division fourth-place promotion: 1969–70


== References ==

The Winged Victory of Brescia is a bronze statue from the 1st century AD housed at the Capitolium of Brescia, where it was discovered in 1826 along with other Roman bronzes. The work is one of the symbols of the city of Brescia.


== History and description ==
Initially believed to be a Hellenistic work executed around the mid-3rd century BC by a Greek master and later reworked in Roman imperial times, based on studies conducted in the early 19th century, the statue was recognized as a pastiche, meaning an assemblage created in Roman times, likely after 69 AD, based on a previous Hellenistic casting. The new restoration by the Opificio delle Pietre Dure has established that the statue was cast in the 1st century AD in a local foundry and is not an assemblage of different statues but was created to be a "Winged Victory." The reference model is identified as the Afrodite Urania of the "Cyrene type," meaning the goddess conceived in that specific variation of posture found in the statue discovered at Cyrene. Other details, such as the torsion of the torso and the positioning of the arms, are similarly derived from Greek works of the 5th–6th century BC. The figure wears a chiton fastened at the shoulders and a himation that wraps around the lower limbs. The left leg is slightly raised, as it is believed the foot rested on the helmet of Mars; to complete the work, a silver and copper damascening was placed on the head to adorn the hair. In Roman times, wings were added to transform the work into the goddess Victoria; similar works (Victory inscribing a shield) were present in Rome and Constantinople in the imperial forums. After centuries of oblivion, the work was discovered on the evening of July 20, 1826, partially disassembled and carefully hidden in the western cavity of the Capitolium between the temple and the Cidneo, along with many other bronze pieces, including a series of portraits, likely to prevent it from being melted down for weapons during invasions by barbarian peoples (Goths and Huns). This explains its exceptional state of preservation.
With the advent of World War I, the Victory, along with numerous other works of artistic and cultural heritage, was transferred to Rome by order of the government as a precaution to keep them safe from the front lines. After the conflict, Senator Pompeo Gherardo Molmenti was appointed Undersecretary for Antiquities and Fine Arts, tasked with ensuring that the masterpieces moved to Rome were returned to their original locations; Molmenti personally oversaw the transport and return of the Victory to Brescia, which took place with a solemn celebration in April 1920.
The statue was loaned and exhibited from November 1948 to March 1949 at the Kunsthaus Zürich museum for the event exhibition titled Kunstschätze der Lombardei. 500 vor Christus, 1800 nach Christus.
According to early studies, a hypothesis was formulated about how the statue arrived in Brescia. According to this hypothesis, the statue was transported to Rome at the behest of Augustus after the death of Cleopatra in 29 BC and then donated directly to Brixia as a sign of political goodwill, perhaps on the occasion of the city being granted the title of Colonia Augusta. The work was then transformed into Nike after the Second Battle of Bedriacum, which marked the triumph of Marcus Antonius Primus, lieutenant of Vespasian, over Vitellius. It was Vespasian himself, after the battle that enabled his rise to the throne, who ordered the monumental renovation of the forum and the Capitoline temple of the city, and it was assumed that the statue's transformation from Aphrodite to Victory occurred on this occasion. The goddess's posture would have changed from the vanity of gazing at herself to the act of writing a dedicatory inscription with a stylus on the shield of Ares, which was later lost, while two large feathered wings were mounted on her back.
The consensus on the previous hypothesis, which had long been predominant, weakened following further investigations conducted using X-ray fluorescence. The analyses revealed no significant differences between the wings and the body of the statue, an homogeneity that likely indicated the work was created in a single constructive process. The sculpture was analyzed and studied by Edilberto Formigli and Andrea Salcuni as part of a research project by the Institute of Archaeological Sciences of the Goethe University Frankfurt. In July 2018, the work was entrusted to experts from the Opificio delle Pietre Dure, assisted by specialists from the Sapienza University of Rome; the statue underwent restoration and was the subject of a joint interdisciplinary study involving archaeologists, scientific consultants, engineers, and restorers.
After the restoration, a structure—designed by Spanish architect Juan Navarro Baldeweg who also redesigned its display—was created at the Capitolium to house the monument, equipped with a new earthquake-resistant base.


== Details ==


== The Winged Victory of Brescia in the world ==
 Italy

Bologna: Plaster cast at the gypsotheque of the Archaeological Civic Museum of Bologna
Bolsena: Gilded bronze reproduction, atop the marble column of the war memorial.
Brescia: The original Winged Victory housed at the Capitolium
Brescia: Copy housed at Palazzo della Loggia, originally intended for the American president Woodrow Wilson.
Brescia: 1935 bronze reproduction, donated by Roberto Ferrari, located in the "Cloister of Memory" of the former Santi Cosma e Damiano
Brescia: Reproduction, donated by the Rotary Club, placed at the center of the roundabout on Via Labirinto.
Carcare: 1919 bronze reproduction by Paolo Enrico De Barbieri, part of the war memorial in Piazza Guglielmo Marconi.
Gardone Riviera: Wingless bronze copy, commissioned in 1934 by Gabriele D’Annunzio to sculptor Renato Brozzi for placement in the Tempietto della Vittoria at the Vittoriale degli Italiani.
Isorella: Reproduction placed in Piazza Roma, in front of the town hall.
Passo del Tonale: Copy created in the 1920s by sculptor Timo Bortolotti for the Victory Monument, later incorporated into the Tonale Military Memorial.
Rome: Plaster cast at the Museum of Roman Civilization.
Rome: Copy at Palazzo Chigi.
Rovereto: Reproduction at the Italian War History Museum housed in the Rovereto Castle
Trento: Bronze reproduction at the Fondazione Museo Storico del Trentino
Santicolo in Corteno Golgi: Bronze reproduction atop the war memorial.
 France

Paris: Bronze reproduction along the Escalier Colbert in the Louvre Museum. The copy was cast in 1861 at the Parisian foundry of "Eck et Durand" thanks to the plaster cast made by Pietro Pierotti and donated by the city of Brescia to Napoleon III after the victory in the Battle of Solferino in 1859.
Paris: Plaster copy in the atrium of the private residence of Louis-Napoléon located on Avenue Montaigne.
Versailles: Plaster cast by Pietro Pierotti, housed in the Louvre's storage facilities located in the Versailles stables
 Germany

Berlin: Plaster copy at the gypsotheque of the Berlin State Museums.
Berlin: Plaster cast at the Abguss-Sammlung Antiker Plastik of the Free University of Berlin.
Dresden: Plaster copy sent to the Dresden Academy of Fine Arts in 1873
 United Kingdom

Cambridge: Plaster copy, purchased by Louis Alexander Fagan in 1877, for the gypsotheque of the Fitzwilliam Museum
 Czech Republic

Přestanov: Large-scale reproduction atop the column of the monument, designed by architect Pietro Nobile in 1836, commemorating the victory against Napoleon Bonaparte in Bohemia.
 Russia

Saint Petersburg: At the Stieglitz Museum
 Spain

Valladolid: Plaster replica granted in 1888 to the Museo de reproducciones artísticas in Madrid, where it was housed until the end of 2011, when the museum was absorbed by the National Sculpture Museum in Valladolid
 United States

Boston: At the Museum of Fine Arts
New York City: Plaster cast at the Metropolitan Museum of Art
San Simeon: Bronze replica at Hearst Castle in California, by sculptor Umberto Marcellini in the early 20th century
 Switzerland

Zurich: Zurich Museum


== In popular culture ==


=== Philately ===
The Victory of Brescia was the subject of a series of stamps of the Kingdom of Italy, created by Alberto Repettati, for the third anniversary of the victory in the Battle of Vittorio Veneto. The series, printed by the Turin paper securities office, was issued by Italian Post on November 1, 1921, and also  in the Italian colonies of Eritrea, Libya, and Italian Somalia.On the occasion of the restoration, on November 21, 2020, the Ministry of Economic Development issued a new stamp, printed by the Istituto Poligrafico e Zecca dello Stato, depicting the statue in a stylized graphic by Paolo Tassinari.


=== Civic image ===
On the occasion of the "First International Air Circuit," the first Italian aviation event held from September 8 to 20, 1909, between Montichiari and Ghedi, the Winged Victory of Brescia was used as a civic symbol in informational and promotional materials related to the event. A similar example was the use of the statue's image in illustrations for tourism promotion of the city of Brescia by the ENIT.


=== Literature ===
Antoine-Claude Pasquin Valéry dedicates a chapter to it in his work Voyages historiques et littéraire en Italie.
Giosuè Carducci celebrated it in the Alcaic ode Alla Vittoria, written in May 1877, included in the Barbarian Odes, and inspired by two visits the poet made to Brescia, the first in the summer of 1871 with Carolina Cristofori, the second in October 1876.
Gabriele D’Annunzio was reverently fascinated by the Victory and celebrated it extensively throughout his life: it appears in the sonnet dedicated to Brescia, included in Elettra (D'Annunzio), the second book of the Laudi, and it inspired him so much that he depicted it in the novel Forse che sì forse che no.
The magazine Topolino dedicated a comic story to it in issue number 3391.


=== Numismatics ===
A detail of the statue's face is depicted on the reverse of the first coin in the 2023 Italian Republic numismatic collection, issued on February 20, 2023, and dedicated to the cities of Bergamo and Brescia as Italian Capitals of Culture for 2023.


== See also ==
Santa Giulia Museum
Venus de Milo


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Clara Stella, ed. (2003). Brixia. Scoperte e riscoperte [Brixia. Discoveries and Rediscoveries] (in Italian). Milano: Skira. ISBN 978-88-8491-540-5.
Lorenzo Bonoldi; Monica Centanni; Luana Lovisetto (2003). "Venus volubilis/venusta Victoria. Tradimenti, travestimenti, capricci, denudamenti dell'Afrodite di Brescia" [Venus Volubilis/Venusta Victoria. Betrayals, Disguises, Whims, and Unveilings of the Aphrodite of Brescia]. La Rivista di Engramma. La tradizione classica nella memoria occidentale. Third series (in Italian) (25). Venezia: Associazione Culturale Engramma. ISSN 1826-901X.
Lorenzo Bonoldi (2005). "Nachleben e vittorie postume della Venus Victrix di Brescia" [Afterlife and Posthumous Victories of the Venus Victrix of Brescia]. La Rivista di Engramma. La tradizione classica nella memoria occidentale. Third series (in Italian) (41). Venezia: Associazione Culturale Engramma. ISSN 1826-901X.
Pierfabio Panazza (2013). "La Vittoria Alata a Parigi: testimonianze inedite dall'archivio della famiglia Lechi" [The Winged Victory in Paris: Unpublished Testimonies from the Lechi Family Archive] (PDF). Commentari dell'Ateneo di Brescia (in Italian). per l’anno 2008. Brescia: Fratelli Geroldi: 69–102. ISSN 0375-6181.
Pietro Lechi (2013). "Nuovi inediti intorno alla Vittoria Alata. Con cenni sull'origine dei documenti nell'archivio di famiglia" [New Unpublished Documents on the Winged Victory. With Notes on the Origin of Documents in the Family Archive] (PDF). Commentari dell'Ateneo di Brescia (in Italian). per l’anno 2008. Brescia: Fratelli Geroldi: 103–112. ISSN 0375-6181.
Marco Taddia (2012). Arnaudon e la Vittoria Alata di Brescia [Arnaudon and the Winged Victory of Brescia] (PDF). Storia della Chimica applicata alla conservazione dei Beni Culturali, Roma, June 14, 2010. series V (in Italian). Vol. 34 (1 ed.). Roma: Aracne Editrice. pp. 199–211. ISBN 978-88-548-4598-5. ISSN 0392-4130.
Andrea Salcuni; Edilberto Formigli, eds. (2011). Grandi bronzi romani dall'Italia settentrionale. Brescia, Cividate Camuno e Verona [Large Roman Bronzes from Northern Italy. Brescia, Cividate Camuno, and Verona] (in Italian). Bonn: Dr. Rudolf Habelt Verlag. ISBN 978-3-7749-3762-8.
Gian Paolo Treccani (2010). ""Liberare i segni di Roma". Archeologia e centro storico nel caso di Brescia, 1823–1941" ["Liberating the Signs of Rome. Archaeology and the historic center in the case of Brescia, 1823–1941]. In Gian Paolo Treccani (ed.). Aree archeologiche e centri storici. Costituzione dei Parchi archeologici e processi di trasformazione urbana [Archaeological Areas and Historic Centers. Establishment of Archaeological Parks and Urban Transformation Processes] (in Italian). Milano: FrancoAngeli. pp. 63–91. ISBN 978-88-568-2255-7.
Francesca Morandini; Anna Patera, eds. (2021). La Vittoria Alata di Brescia. Non ho visto nulla di più bello [The Winged Victory of Brescia. I Have Seen Nothing More Beautiful] (in Italian). Milano: Skira. ISBN 9788857244471.

"Abraham, Martin and John" is a 1968 song written by Dick Holler. It was first recorded by Dion, in a version that was a substantial North American chart hit in 1968–1969.  Near-simultaneous cover versions by Smokey Robinson and the Miracles and Moms Mabley also charted in the U.S. in 1969, and a version that same year by Marvin Gaye became the hit version in the UK.  It was also a hit as part of a medley (with "What the World Needs Now Is Love") for Tom Clay in 1971, and has subsequently been recorded by many other artists.  Holler was particularly impressed that Bob Dylan covered the song.
The song itself is a tribute to the memory of four assassinated Americans, all icons of social change: Abraham Lincoln, John F. Kennedy, Martin Luther King Jr., and Robert F. Kennedy. It was written in response to the assassination of King and that of Robert Kennedy in April and June 1968, respectively.
In June 2026, CBS News included the song in its list of the 250 essential American songs of the past 250 years.


== Lyrics ==
Each of the first three verses features one of the men named in the song's title, for example:

After a bridge, the fourth and final verse mentions "Bobby" (referencing Robert F. Kennedy), and ends with a description of him "walking over the hill" with the other three men.


== Dion recording ==
The original version, recorded by Dion, featured a gentle folk rock production from Phil Gernhard and arrangement from John Abbott. The song features a flugelhorn, an electric organ, bass, drums and harp.
Dion was a recovering heroin addict living in South Florida when Holler and Gernhard brought him the song, and had turned his career toward acoustic folk singing. Holler had written the song in St. Petersburg, Florida, shortly after hearing about Robert Kennedy's death. Dion performed the song on The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour in October 1968. Although it was quite unlike the rock sound that Dion had become famous for in the early 1960s, and even more unlike Holler and Gernhard's previous collaboration in the 1966 novelty song "Snoopy vs. the Red Baron", "Abraham, Martin and John" nonetheless was a major American hit single in late 1968. It reached number 2 on the Cash Box Top 100 Pop Singles chart, number 4 on the Billboard Hot 100, and number 1 on Chicago station WLS. It was also awarded a RIAA gold record for selling a million copies. In Canada, it topped the charts, reaching number 1 in the RPM 100 on November 25, 1968. In 2001, this recording would be ranked number 248 on the RIAA's "Songs of the Century" list. The record was also popular with adult listeners, reaching number 8 on the Billboard Easy Listening survey. The personnel on the original recording included Vinnie Bell and Ralph Casale on guitar, Nick DeCaro on organ, David Robinson on drums, Gloria Agostini on harp, and George Marge on oboe and English horn.
Dion would re-record the song a few times throughout his career, with the latest recording being released on his 2025 album The Rock 'N' Roll Philosopher.


== Chart performance ==


== Certifications ==


== Later recordings and performances ==
Smokey Robinson & the Miracles recorded a version that became an American Top 40 single in 1969, reaching number 33 while reaching number 16 on the US R&B charts.
Marvin Gaye, with an orchestral arrangement by Norman Whitfield, also recorded a version in 1969 that became a top-10 hit (reaching number 9) in the United Kingdom in 1970 (Gaye's version was never released in the U.S. as a single but was featured on his 1970 album, That's the Way Love Is, and was one of his first experiments with social messages in his music which would culminate in his 1971 album, What's Going On.)
Comedian Moms Mabley performed a completely serious version that hit the U.S. Top 40. It reached number 35 in July 1969 and number 18 on the R&B charts, making Mabley (at 75) the oldest living person to have a U.S. Top 40 hit.
Ray Charles recorded his version of the song on his 1972 album A Message from the People.
Wilson Pickett recorded a variation of the song, "Cole, Cooke & Redding" (US number 91 / Canada number 58), as the B-side of his 1970 version of The Archies' hit "Sugar, Sugar". His version altered the lyrics to eulogize the titular three deceased icons of black music.
Whitney Houston performed the song in 1997 in her concert series Classic Whitney: Live from Washington, D.C..


== As part of medleys ==
The song is also featured on Tom Clay's 1971 "What the World Needs Now Is Love/Abraham, Martin, and John", a medley combining Dion's recording with Jackie DeShannon's recording of Burt Bacharach's "What the World Needs Now Is Love", along with vocals by The Blackberries. Clay's recording features narration (an adult asking a child to define several words associated with social unrest), sound bites from speeches given by President John F. Kennedy, Robert F. Kennedy, and Martin Luther King Jr., along with sound bites from the live press coverage of Robert Kennedy's assassination, and his eulogy by his brother Edward M. Kennedy.  It reached number 8 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart on August 14, 1971, and number 32 on the R&B charts. It reached number 3 in Australia.


== See also ==
Civil rights movement in popular culture
Cultural depictions of Abraham Lincoln
Cultural depictions of John F. Kennedy
Robert F. Kennedy in media


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Collins, Ace. Songs Sung, Red, White, and Blue: The Stories Behind America's Best-Loved Patriotic Songs.  HarperResource, 2003.  ISBN 0060513047


== External links ==
Abraham Martin and John - by song's writer, Richard Holler
Dion - Abraham Martin and John

The Grey Mare's Tail (Welsh: Rhaeadr y Parc Mawr) is a waterfall on the very edge of the Snowdonia National Park near Gwydir Castle in Conwy County Borough, north Wales.  It lies just off the B5106 road between the town of Llanrwst and the large village of Trefriw.  The Welsh name, Rhaeadr y Parc Mawr, derives from the fact that the falls are fed by a large stream that has its source in the Gwydir Forest, and flows through the old Parc Mine, about a mile to the southeast. The name 'Grey Mare's Tail' was given to it by Lady Willoughby of Gwydir Castle, possibly "in compliment to Lord Byron and the Staubbach" (Byron compared the 900 ft Staubbach Falls in Switzerland to the long white tail of the pale horse upon which death is mounted in the Book of Revelation.)
In all there are some ten types of waterfall, a horsetail being described as a fall where the descending water maintains some contact with bedrock.
Despite its name, this waterfall actually comprises two cascades, the water flowing around both sides of a large rock at the top.  However this was possibly not always the case — in 1895 Francis Frith published a postcard showing the "White Mare's Tail Cascade, Llanrwst". Despite the slightly different name ('white') and only showing a single waterfall — as opposed to today's twin cascades — it is probable from the woodland setting that this is indeed the same location.
Below the falls is a shallow plunge pool, and on leaving the wood the waters flow under the road to join eventually the River Conwy.
The woodland area in which the falls lie is known as Coed Felin Blwm ("Lead Mill Wood"), and the remains of mill buildings can be seen near the falls.   Felin Blwm lead mill (a name now taken by the adjacent house) was originally erected by the Gwydir Estate to crush ore from Parc Mine in the Gwydir Forest and it is possible that this is the mill listed in surviving 18th-century Estate accounts. A later decline in lead mining saw the mill converted to a sawmill. Both lead and wood from this site was transported down the River Conwy from Trefriw.
The waters of the falls are not especially pure because of the minerals (not just lead) in the rocks of the Gwydir Forest.
When Sir John Wynn was laying out the ornamental gardens at Gwydir Castle in the 1590s, he took a spur of water from above the falls, channelling it along the hillside in a leat.  Collected in a header tank, from here the water was of sufficient pressure to feed the fountain in the gardens. This still functions today.
In her book Castles in the Air, the current owner of Gwydir Castle describes the waterfall thus:

No need to improve on the imagery of the Grey Mare's Tail. Suffice it to say, the cascade of water fell from a high point to a low point in a secluded little dell not far from the castle, like a grey mare's tail.  The spray from it was bracing even in summer.  It had the feel of water that lived most of its life under ground.
The area around the falls is now a nature reserve, owned by Natural Resources Wales, as is much of the adjacent Gwydir Forest. There is a tiny signed car park at the gate, but otherwise the existence of the falls is not signed at all, and remains unknown to many who pass by.  The falls can also be reached from above, from the lane which leads up to the hamlet of Llanrhychwyn.


== See also ==
List of waterfalls
List of waterfalls in Wales


== References ==


== External links ==
A walk taking in the falls
Another walk taking in the falls
Video of the waterfall on YouTube

THEOS, which translates from Greek as "God", is an operating system which started out as OASIS, a microcomputer operating system for small computers that use the Z80 processor. When the operating system was launched for the IBM Personal Computer/AT in 1982, the decision was taken to change the name from OASIS to THEOS, short for THE Operating System.


== History ==


=== OASIS ===
The OASIS operating system was originally developed and distributed in 1977 by Phase One Systems of Oakland, California (President Howard Sidorsky). OASIS was developed for the Z80 processor and was the first multi-user operating system for 8-bit microprocessor based computers (Z-80 from Zilog). "OASIS" was a backronym for "Online Application System Interactive Software".
OASIS consisted of a multi-user operating system, a powerful Business Basic/Interpreter, C compiler and a powerful text editor. Timothy Williams developed OASIS and was employed at Phase One. The market asked for 16-bit systems but there was no real 16-bit multi-user OS for 16-bit systems. Every month Phase One announced OASIS-16 but it did not come. One day Timothy Williams claimed that he owned OASIS and started a court case against Phase One and claimed several million U.S. dollars. Sidorsky had no choice and claimed Chapter 11. The court case took two years and finally the ruling was that Timothy Williams was allowed to develop the 16-bit version of OASIS but he was not allowed to use the OASIS name anymore.
David Shirley presented an alternative history at the Computer Information Centre, an OASIS distributor for the UK in the early 1980s. He said Timothy Williams developed the OASIS operating system and contracted with Phase One Systems to market and sell the product. Development was underway, but it was prematurely announced by POS. This led to pressure to release OASIS early, when it was still not properly debugged or optimised. OASIS 8-bit was quite well optimised by that point, with many parts hand-coded in Z80 assembler, but that meant then-new 16-bit systems performed nowhere near as well as their 8-bit counterparts. This situation led to Williams becoming dissatisfied with Phase One, and forming his own company to market and support the 16-bit OASIS. This new company was initially called Oasis Technologies, until Phase One took action to protect the name. Rather than fight a long and expensive court battle, Williams renamed the company and product to "THEOS".  It was intended to mean "the OS" in the sense of "the one" ("Theos" is Greek for "God").
While Williams and Sidorsky fought in court, manufacturers had no 16-bit multi-user OS. This led to an agreement between Microsoft and Santa Cruz Operation to make a new  operating system based on Version 7 Unix from Bell Labs. Microsoft purchased a license for Version 7 UNIX from AT&T in 1978, and announced on August 25, 1980, that it would make it available for the 16-bit microcomputer market. Because Microsoft was not able to license the "UNIX" name itself, it was called Xenix. Microsoft would distribute the product via Larry Michels and his son Doug Michels (Santa Cruz Operation).
Seiko also lost patience with THEOS and Williams, and decided to make their own OASIS 16-bit version and hired Dr. Jeffrey Bahr. When Xenix and THEOS became available Seiko did decide to leave this market. Jeffrey Bahr started CET which went on with the development of the 16-bit OASIS compatible software. CET software was completely compatible with OASIS/THEOS and allowed users entry to  the Unix and Microsoft world.
CET acquired the Phase one company. Also, Phase One Systems licenses a porting tool called CET Basic. CET Basic is compatible with THEOS BASIC, MultiUser BASIC, OASIS BASIC, and UX-BASIC. This means you can keep most of your existing source code, and using W/32 BASIC, recompile your THEOS, OASIS, or UX-BASIC programs to work under additional operating systems such as Microsoft Windows, Linux or SCO UNIX.


=== THEOS ===
THEOS operating systems have been distributed by THEOS Software Corporation in Walnut Creek, California, since 1983. As of 2003, Phase One Systems publishes software development tools for THEOS(R) systems. As well as porting tools, Phase One Systems distributed the Freedom query package and Control database package for THEOS systems, used to bring SQL-like data extraction tools to third-party software packages.
THEOS was introduced in Europe by Fujitsu and other hardware manufacturers 30 years ago, and is distributed by a number of distributors in Great Britain, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Italy and more. The 'current' version is THEOS Corona Commercial Release 6, which was released in December 2008, and a number of updates have been released since that time. The current Windows Workstation Client (as of May 2009) is version 3.16 from July 2003.


== Features ==
Originally written in the late 1970s by Timothy S. Williams as a low-cost alternative to the more expensive mini- and mainframe- computers that were popular in the day, OASIS provided time-sharing multiuser facilities to allow several users to utilise the resources of one computer. Similar in concept to MP/M or UNIX, THEOS uses external device drivers rather than a kernel, allowing it to be more portable to other environments, though support has been primarily directed towards industry-standard hardware (i.e. PC's).  THEOS is specifically aimed at small business users, with a wide range of vertical-market applications packages being developed and supported by individuals and companies.
The languages distributed with THEOS include THEOS Multi-User Basic and C. A powerful EXEC shell language can be used for task automation or to produce a turnkey system.
A number of security features exist, including dynamic passwords (where the password includes part of the date or time, or client IP address, or other dynamic elements), allow/deny security, a comprehensive inbound and outbound firewall, and an option to require a certain level of encryption in the workstation connection. In addition, the object file format is proprietary, and the operating system uses Intel "protected mode" to further increase defence against buffer overrun attacks.


=== Commands ===
The following list of commands are supported by the THEOS/OASIS Command String Interpreter (CSI).


== Reception ==
BYTE in 1985 stated that "the functionality of THEOS is somewhere between MS-DOS and UNIX". The magazine criticized the documentation's quality, and concluded that the price was too high compared to other multiuser operating systems for the PC such as Pick and Coherent.


== See also ==
Multiuser DOS Federation


== References ==


== External links ==
THEOS Software Corporation
Historia de OASIS®/THEOS® Corona
OASIS Users' Group Archive February 1981 through November 1985

Geitonogamy (from Greek geiton (γείτων) = neighbor + gamein (γαμεῖν) = to marry) is a type of self-pollination. Geitonogamous pollination is sometimes distinguished from the fertilizations that can result from it, geitonogamy. If a plant is self-incompatible, geitonogamy can reduce seed production.
In flowering plants, pollen is transferred from a flower to another flower on the same plant, and in animal pollinated systems this is accomplished by a pollinator visiting multiple flowers on the same plant. Geitonogamy is also possible within species that are wind-pollinated, and may actually be a quite common source of self-fertilized seeds in self-compatible species. It also occurs in monoecious gymnosperms.
Empirical work shows that geitonogamy is seldom a marginal process: in many flowering plants it represents a sizeable share of all pollen transfer and its incidence rises steeply as the number of simultaneously open flowers on a plant increases. Field experiments and pollen-movement models indicate that a plant with ten open flowers may experience about 13% geitonogamous pollen receipt, whereas a display of fifty flowers can push that figure beyond 45%; at the same time, pollen export per flower drops sharply as self-delivery soaks up the grains that would otherwise reach neighbouring individuals.
Because pollen retained within the parent plant earns little or no male fitness and may interfere with female success, geitonogamy carries measurable costs. In self-incompatible species experimental precedence of self-pollen has reduced subsequent seed set by up to 40%, whereas in self-compatible taxa any level of inbreeding depression means that seeds sired through geitonogamy are, on average, less fit than outcrossed progeny. These effects are especially pronounced in large, many-flowered clones, helping to explain selection for traits—such as staggered flowering, directional nectar gradients or architectural arrangements that guide pollinators away from older female-phase flowers—that reduce successive visits to blossoms on the same individual.


== See also ==
Plant reproductive morphology
Self-fertilization
Autogamy Depression


== References ==

Khmu [kʰmuʔ] is the language of the Khmu people of the northern Laos region. It is also spoken in adjacent areas of Vietnam, Thailand and China. Khmu lends its name to the Khmuic branch of the Austroasiatic language family, the latter of which also includes Khmer and Vietnamese. Within Austroasiatic, Khmu is often cited as being most closely related to the Palaungic and Khasic languages.  The name "Khmu" can also be seen romanized as Kmhmu, Khmu', Kammu, or Khamuk in various publications or alternatively referred to by the name of a local dialect.


== Dialects ==
Khmu has several dialects but no standard variety. Dialects differ primarily in consonant inventory, existence of register, and the degree to which the language has been influenced by the surrounding national language(s). Dialects are, for the most part, mutually intelligible; however communication can be difficult between speakers of geographically distant dialects.
The dialects of Khmu can be broadly categorized into two groups, Western Khmu and Eastern Khmu.

Western Khmu dialects have fewer consonant phonemes and instead use phonemic register contrast, as seen in other Austroasiatic languages, of "lax" breathy register and "tense" modal register. In at least one dialect of Western Khmu, known as Khmu Rook, tonogenesis is evident as the register contrast has developed into a system of two phonetic tones with six phonemic realizations.
Eastern Khmu dialects show the opposite tendency. Completely lacking either register or tone distinction, these dialects utilize a three-way distinction of stops (voiced, voiceless and aspirated voiceless) and nasals (voiced, voiceless, and pre-glottalized) in the syllable-initial position for phonemic contrast.


=== Suwilai Premsrirat (2002) ===
Suwilai Premsrirat (2002) reports the following locations and dialects of Kmhmu' in Laos, Vietnam, China, and Thailand.

Laos: spoken in the 8 northern provinces of Luang Namtha, Udomsai, Bokeo, Sayaburi, Phongsali, Luang Prabang, and Xiaq kvaaq, with a few villages near Vientiane. Dialects include Kmhmu' Rook, Khmu Lw,  and Kmhmu' Cwaq (also known as Kmhmu' Uu).
Vietnam: Kim Hua, Sop Pot, Sop Caw and Pung Kamong Villages, Kim Da Subdistrict, Tương Dương District, Vinh City, Nghệ An Province. Also in Lai Châu Province, Sơn La Province, and Thanh Hóa Province.
China: Pung Soa village (more conservative with voicing contrasts in the initial consonants) and Om Kae village (has tonal contrasts) in Sipsongpanna, Yunnan
Thailand: many villages, including the representative datapoint of Huai Ian village, Lai Ngao subdistrict, Wiang Kaen district, Chiang Rai province (originally from Pak Bang district of Laos, where the language is called Khmu Khrong, meaning 'Mekong Khmu'). Also in Nan province and Lampang province.


== Phonology ==


=== Consonants ===
The consonant inventory of Khmu' is shown in the table below.  The phoneme /f/, present in dialects of both Eastern and Western Khmu', is a result of borrowings from the surrounding Tai languages.

Only found in Eastern Khmu dialects.
w̥ is a voiceless labio-velar approximant.


=== Vowels ===
The vowels of the Khmu' language show little variation across the dialects with all varieties having 19 monophthongs and three diphthongs (/iə/, /ɨə/ and /uə/).


== Grammar ==


=== Pronouns ===


=== Syntax ===
Khmu uses mainly an SVO word order although an OVS order is also possible.


== Vocabulary ==


=== Numeral ===


=== Comparison with Khmer ===


== See also ==
Khmuic languages
Khmu people


== References ==

Thomas Khammeung Manokoune (Tamong)


== Further reading ==
Premsirat, Suwilai (1991). "Aspects Inter-Clausal Relations in Khmu". In Davidson, Jeremy H. C. S.; Shorto, H. L. (eds.). Austroasiatic Languages: Essays in Honour of H.L. Shorto. University of London, School of Oriental and African Studies. pp. 123–140. ISBN 0728601834. Retrieved 9 June 2014.
Prēmsīrat, Suwilai. The Thesaurus and Dictionary Series of Khmu Dialects in Southeast Asia. Nakorn Pathom: Institute of Language and Culture for Rural Development, Mahidol University at Salaya, Thailand, 2002. ISBN 9740501125
Prēmsīrat, Suwilai. Khmu, a Minority Language of Thailand. Papers in South-East Asian linguistics, no. 10. Canberra, A.C.T., Australia: Dept. of Linguistics, Research School of Pacific Studies, Australian National University, 1987. ISBN 0-85883-365-4
Proschan, Frank. Kmhmu' Language and Language Policy: At Home and Abroad. s.l: s.n, 1995.
Proschan, Frank. Poetic Parallelism in Kmhmu Verbal Arts: From Texts to Performances. s.l: s.n, 1988.
Smalley, William Allen. Outline of Khmu structure. American Oriental series. Essay, v.2. New Haven, Conn: American Oriental Society, 1961.
Svantesson, Jan-Olof. Kammu Phonology and Morphology. Travaux de l'Institut de linguistique de Lund, 18. Lund: CWK Gleerup, 1983. ISBN 91-40-04870-5


== External links ==

http://projekt.ht.lu.se/rwaai RWAAI (Repository and Workspace for Austroasiatic Intangible Heritage)
http://hdl.handle.net/10050/00-0000-0000-0003-66EA-B@view Khmu in RWAAI Digital Archive
Database of audio recordings in Khmu – basic Catholic prayers

The Apuseni Mountains (Romanian: Munții Apuseni, "Western Mountains"; Hungarian: Erdélyi-középhegység, "Transylvanian Mountains") are a mountain range in Transylvania, Romania, which belongs to the Western Romanian Carpathians. The highest peak is the Bihor Peak at 1,849 metres (6,066 ft). The Apuseni Mountains have about 400 caves.


== Geography ==
The Apuseni Mountains do not present an uninterrupted chain of mountains, but possess many low and easy passes towards the Crișana and the Pannonian Plain. Going from south to north the principal groups are: the Munții Metaliferi ("Ore Mountains") with the basaltic masses of the Detunata (1,148 metres (3,766 ft)) near Abrud; the Bihor Mountains, with numerous caverns, with the highest peak the Bihorul (1,849 metres (6,066 ft)); to the east of this group are the Muntele Mare (highest peak 1,820 metres (5,970 ft)), to the southwest of Cluj-Napoca; the northernmost chain is the Seș and Meseș Mountains.
The paleogeographic evolution of this mountainous area is closely linked to the evolution of the Western Carpathians and, in general, to the evolution of the entire Carpathian chain. The crystalline schists began to separate as early as the Precambrian period, becoming much more clearly defined in the Silurian period as a result of the Caledonian orogeny and, especially, in the Carboniferous period as a result of the Hercynian movements that affected the entire Carpathian chain and the mountains of Central Europe as far as Northern Dobrogea. From the Carboniferous period to the end of the Mesozoic era, the Carpathians were subjected to successive orogenic movements, volcanic and metamorphic processes with implications for natural deposits. The uplift of this area, as well as of the Carpathians, occurred in the Cretaceous period (Mesozoic) as a result of Alpine orogenesis, accompanied by subsidence movements, forming a series of depressions (Gurahonț, Brad), which functioned as lake areas where Carpathian rivers deposited sediments. After the Cretaceous period, the Apuseni Mountains underwent modeling processes, forming erosion platforms with lower altitudes than those in the Southern Carpathians (Borăscu - 2000 m; Râu-Șes- 1200 m - 1600 m; Gornovița or Predealului- 1000 m), due to the less spectacular elevation of the Western Carpathians compared to the Southern Carpathians. During the Paleogene period, numerous marine transgressions and regressions took place in the depression basins, as well as the consolidation of the Carpathian orogen. Volcanic activity in the second half of the Neogene period formed the Metaliferi Mountains.
The Apuseni Mountains reached their final elevation at the beginning of the Quaternary period. During this period, the waters receded from the depressions, forming the hydrographic network. Also during the Quaternary period, plant species began to differentiate according to altitude and the first humans appeared. They played an active role in shaping the geographical environment.


== Climate ==
The climate is temperate-continental with transitional nuances and oceanic influences. The average annual temperature is between 6 and 10°C, with precipitation of 700-1000 mm/year.


== Fauna and vegetation ==
The vegetation consists of deciduous and coniferous forests (above 1300 m). The fauna is very diverse, with species such as red foxes, grey wolves, martens, red deer, roe deer, squirrels, and brown bears.The Natural Park, which shares its name with the mountains, is home to a total of 45 species of mammals.This area is home to a variety of birds, including western capercaillie, lesser-spotted eagles, golden eagles, woodpeckers and many more. 


=== Boundaries ===
To the north: the Barcău River.
To the south: the Mureș River.
To the east: the Transylvanian Plateau.
To the west: the Crișana plains.


=== Subdivisions ===

Criș Mountains (Munţii Crișului, Hungarian: Körös-menti hegyvidék) :
Criș Hills (Dealurile Crișene, Hungarian: Körös-menti dombság), including the Beiuș Depression (Depresiunea Beiuș, Hungarian: Belényesi-medence) and the Vad Depression (Depresiunea Vad, Hungarian: Révi-medence)
Pădurea Craiului Mountains (literally:Forest of the King, Hungarian: Királyerdő-hegység)
Codru-Moma Mountains (Munții Codru-Moma, Hungarian: Béli-hegység)
Seș-Meseș Mountains (Munții Seș-Meseșului):
Meseș Mountains (Munții Meseșului, Hungarian: Meszes-hegység)
Seș Mountains (Muntele Seș, Hungarian: Réz-hegység, also Plopiș)
Șimleu Depression (Depresiunea Șimleu Silvanei, Hungarian: Szilágysomlyói-medence), often considered part of the Transylvanian Basin-Podişul Someşan
Șimleu Mountains (Munții Șimleu, Hungarian: Szilágysági-dombvidék), often considered part of the Transylvanian Basin-Podişul Someşan
Bihor Massif (Masivul Bihor, Hungarian: Bihari-havasok):
Bihor Mountains (Munții Bihorului, Hungarian: Bihar-hegység)
Vlădeasa Mountains (Munții Vlădeasa, Hungarian: Vlegyásza-hegység)
Muntele Mare Mountains (literally: Big Mountain), (Munții Muntele Mare, Hungarian: Öreghavas)
Gilău Mountains (Munții Gilăului, Hungarian: Gyalui-havasok)
Mureș Mountains (Munții Mureșului, Hungarian: Marosmenti-hegyvidék):
Zarand Mountains (Munții Zarandului, Hungarian: Zarándi-hegység)
Metalliferous Mountains (Munții Metaliferi, Hungarian: Erdélyi-érchegység)
Trascău Mountains (Munții Trascăului, Hungarian: Torockói-hegység)


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Țara Moților
Apuseni Natural Park


== References ==


== External links ==

(in Romanian) Photos from Apuseni Mountains
(in Romanian) Tourist attractions in Apuseni Mountains
Website with information about the Carpathians Mountains
Apuseni Mountains - photographs + information in Czech
Pictures of the Apuseni Mountains
Awarded "EDEN - European Destinations of Excellence" non-traditional tourist destination 2009
Drone views of the Apuseni Mountains on YouTube

In Japanese mahjong, yaku (Japanese: 役) are patterns of tiles present in a winning hand that will award it han points. Yaku are one of two sources of han (the other being dora) for a winning hand. Unlike dora, any winning hand must contain at least one yaku. Multiple yaku conditions may be combined to produce hands of greater value. Altogether, a hand's point value increases exponentially with every han up to the mangan limit (up to 5 han), after which more han are needed to continue increasing the hand's rank up to yakuman (13 han).
A special class of yaku exist which immediately bring a hand to the maximum rank of yakuman. These yakuman patterns do not stack with lower yaku, but may stack with other yakuman under some rules (allowing a single hand to be ranked as a multiple of yakuman). The yakuman patterns are exceedingly rare in competitive play, some to the point of obscurity.


== Overview ==
Yaku are somewhat similar to poker hands. They fit certain patterns based on the numbers or types of tiles included, as well as the relative value of the tiles. Unlike poker, however, multiple yaku may be combined to produce hands of greater value. The same applies to limit hands or yakuman, which separate from yaku and dora.
The basic concept of a yaku is that it fits into one of three basic criteria:

It contains a pattern of some kind
It can consistently be formed during a game, although it does not necessarily need to be common
It is based on specific game situations, such as discards or actions taken by the players
Finally, when it comes to points scoring, the total number of han in the hand is counted. When the han value is 4 or less, fu is also counted. The combination of the han value and fu value corresponds to a points table.


=== Open and closed hands ===
All hands start closed. A hand becomes open as soon as the player "calls" a tile discarded by an opponent, in order to complete a group from their own hand. This is called "melding." For example, if a player has ⁠⁠ in their hand, and an opponent discards a ⁠⁠, the first player may call the discard, and thus create a melded triplet. This process can also create melded sequences (e.g. 2-3-4 of the same suit), and open quads. The calling player must display the completed group by placing the tiles face-up on the table. This makes the hand "open".
Because no open hand can become closed, certain yaku combinations either reduce its value by one if the hand is open ("Eat and decrease", a literal translation of kuisagari, 喰い下がり), or deemed impossible to complete due to the yaku requiring its hand to be closed (menzen-nomi, 門前のみ).
The only time a player can call an opponent's discard and still have their hand remain closed is when they are calling the winning tile. For scoring purposes (specifically the "Three / Four Concealed Triplets" yakus), the group with the winning called tile is considered open, but the overall hand stays closed (menzenchin 門前清 or menzen 門前).


== List of yaku ==
The following is a list of all the yaku, their names in English and Japanese, their han values, and any special conditions related to them.  They are listed here in groups according to the underlying patterns that define the yaku. Example hands are given, but often, many other arrangements are possible for each yaku. All yaku can be divided into seven basic categories, depending on the dominant feature. The features are as follows: patterns based on sequences, patterns based on triplets/quads, patterns based on terminals/honors, patterns based on suits, maximum-value hands (yakuman), lucky circumstances, and special criteria.


=== Special criteria ===


=== Yaku based on luck ===


=== Yaku based on sequences ===


=== Yaku based on triplets and/or quads ===
When the following hands involve triplets, quads are also acceptable. But if they require quads, triplets do not count. Each hand is worth 2 han, regardless of whether the hand is closed or open.


=== Yaku based on terminal or honor tiles ===
These hands involve terminals and/or honors, or lack thereof (such as tan'yao and yakuhai, due to their simplicity).


=== Yaku based on suits ===
The following two hands are related to a single suit. Both hands lose one han when they are open, and can be stacked with Seven Pairs.


== Yakuman hands ==

Certain hands had stringent requirements to complete, with a scoring that automatically award maximum points if completed. This value, along with the hands themselves, are called limit hands, or yakuman (役満, or yaku-mangan 役満貫). Limit hands are separate from han values, and can stack with other limit hands, but many rulesets do not award more points for this. On the other hand, some rulesets will allow doubling of its points, which is also called daburu yakuman (ダブル役満).
A limit is always valued at 13 han; any non-limit hands and dora that add up to at least 13 han becomes kazoe-yakuman (数え役満) ("counted yakuman"), so long the hand does not contain any limit hands. Some rules disable kazoe yakuman. In such rules, hands with 13+ han are worth sanbaiman.
The hands known as Thirteen Orphans, Four Concealed Triplets, and Big Three Dragons are considered relatively easy to complete among limit hands, and are collectively called "the three big families of yakuman" (Japanese: 役満御三家).
Some limit hands may have different names in some regions. The names used here come from the World Riichi Championship ruleset, which is also used by the American Riichi Mahjong League.


=== Yakuman on opening hands ===
The following are yakuman hands completed on the first go-around.


== Ancient or local yaku ==
The following table details yaku and yakuman hands that are usually not recognized as valid but may appear in house rules.


== See also ==
Mahjong
Japanese mahjong scoring rules
List of poker hands


== References ==


== External links ==
European Mahjong Association's Riichi Ruleset

Argyrotaenia vinalesiae is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. Adults of the species have a forewing length of 4.5–5.0 mm (0.18–0.20 in). It is endemic to Cuba, where it has been recorded only from its type locality of Viñales in Pinar del Río. The species has orange-yellow to golden-yellow forewings and orange-yellow hindwings.


== Taxonomy ==
Argyrotaenia vinalesiae was formally described by the Polish entomologist Józef Razowski and the Brazilian entomologist Vitor Osmar Becker in 2010 based on a male specimen from Pinar del Río, Cuba. This holotype was initially incorrectly listed as being a female by Razowski and Becker, an error that was corrected in 2020. The species is named after its type locality, the municipality of Viñales.


== Description ==
Adults of the species have a forewing length of 4.5–5.0 mm (0.18–0.20 in). The scales on the vertex, frons, and labial palpus are golden-yellow to straw-yellow. The scape has similarly colored scales. The dorsal surface of the forewing is uniformly warm orange-yellow to golden-yellow. The dorsal surface of the hindwing is orange-yellow. The undersides of both wings are slightly paler than the dorsal surfaces.
Argyrotaenia vinalesiae is most similar in its morphology to A. amatana. It differs in its smaller size, uniformly-colored forewing, and shorter, broader signum in the female genitalia. The male genitalia of both species are indistinguishable.


== Distribution and habitat ==
Argyrotaenia vinalesiae is endemic to Cuba, where it has been recorded only from its type locality of Viñales in Pinar del Río. It is known from an elevation of 100 m (330 ft).


== References ==

 Data related to Argyrotaenia vinalesiae at Wikispecies

Bisacodyl is an organic compound that is used as a stimulant laxative drug. It works directly on the colon to produce a bowel movement. It is typically prescribed for relief of episodic and chronic constipation and for the management of neurogenic bowel dysfunction, as well as part of bowel preparation before medical examinations, such as for a colonoscopy.
Bisacodyl is a derivative of triphenylmethane. It was first used as a laxative in 1953 because of its structural similarity to phenolphthalein.
It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. In 2023, it was the 293rd most commonly prescribed medication in the United States, with more than 400,000 prescriptions.


== Medical uses ==
Bisacodyl is used to treat both episodic and chronic constipation, manage symptoms of neurogenic bowel dysfunction, as well as for bowel preparation for a colonoscopy.


=== Available forms ===
Bisacodyl is marketed under the trade names Dulcolax/Durolax, Muxol, Fleet, Nourilax, Alophen, Correctol, and Carter's Little Pills (formerly Carter's Little Liver Pills), as well as being available generically. It is usually sold as 5 mg tablets, 10 mg suppositories, or 5 mg pediatric suppositories. It is also available as a 1.25 US fluid ounces (37 ml) pre-packaged enema containing a 10 mg delivered dose of liquid bisacodyl.


==== Administration ====
When administered rectally in suppository form, it is usually effective in 15 to 60 minutes. For optimal use, if used as a suppository, it is recommended that bisacodyl be given after breakfast to synchronize with the gastrocolic reflex.
As a commercially prepared micro-enema, it is usually effective in 5 to 20 minutes.


== Mechanism of action ==
Bisacodyl works by stimulating enteric neurons to cause peristalsis (i.e., colonic contractions). It is also a contact laxative; it increases fluid and salt secretion. The action of bisacodyl on the small intestine is negligible; stimulant laxatives mainly promote evacuation of the colon.


== References ==

The St. Clair Shores Fighting Saints were a minor professional ice hockey team in the Federal Hockey League that began play in the 2016–17 season based in St. Clair Shores, Michigan. The Fighting Saints played their home games at the St. Clair Shores Civic Arena during their first season. In their second season, they relocated to Kingsville, Ontario, as the North Shore Knights and played home games in several other cities in Ontario and Quebec.


== History ==
On April 20, 2016, it was announced that St. Clair Shores had landed an FHL team to begin play for the 2016–17 season at the Civic Arena.  On May 10, it was announced that Brandon Contratto would be the general manager, Michael Kolarik of Global Hockey Management would run the team, and St. Clair Shores native and former Hartford Whalers player Dave Debol would serve as head coach.
On May 18, the Fighting Saints name, logo, colors and jerseys were announced.
When the schedule was released for the 2017–18 season, the Fighting Saints were listed with home games in Gravenhurst, Ontario, Témiscaming, Quebec, South River, Ontario, and Kingsville, Ontario. The team was later announced to have relocated to Kingsville as the North Shore Knights.


== References ==


== External links ==
St. Clair Shores Fighting Saints official website

St Wilfrid's Cantley is a Grade II* listed church in Doncaster in South Yorkshire, England, and serves as the parish church for the areas of Cantley, Bessacarr and Branton. It is a traditionalist Anglo-Catholic church within the Church of England.


== History ==
The church dates from 1257, though substantial changes have been made since that time. The west tower was added during the fourteenth century. Two significant restorations took place in the late nineteenth century during the tenures of the Reverend William Eardley (1870–1892) and Father William Meaburn Tatham (1892–1938). The first was overseen by George Gilbert Scott in 1874, and the second by the eminent ecclesiastical architect Sir Ninian Comper in 1894. The work of these two architects restored the medieval interior of the church which had been lost in the period following the English Reformation. The result is Comper's finest and most complete work in the region, comprising a free standing altarpiece and reredos, canopy, hanging pyx, various statues and stained glass windows. A large and highly decorated rood screen and rood are also the work of Comper.
In 1989, owing to the increasing size of the congregation, an extension was built on the north side of the church building, almost doubling it in size.


== William Meaburn Tatham ==
Tatham was Vicar of Cantley for 46 years from 1892 until his death on 18 October 1938. Born on 30 July 1862 in Great Ryburgh into a wealthy Norfolk family closely associated with the Catholic Revival in the Church of England, Tatham was educated at Marlborough College and Brasenose College, Oxford. A keen sportsman throughout his life, Tatham competed at the Wimbledon Championships of 1882, being defeated in the first round by the celebrated champion, Ernest Renshaw. After attending theological college at Cuddesdon, Oxford, he was ordained deacon in 1885 at the age of 23 and served his title in the parish of St Saviour's Church, Folkestone working among the poor. Tatham began his second curacy at St Agnes, Kennington Park in 1890, before leaving two years later to be presented to the living of Cantley in the then Diocese of York, later Sheffield, on 14 December 1892. Having been influenced by the Oxford Movement as an undergraduate, Tatham established St Wilfrid's firmly in the Catholic tradition, facing much opposition and courting the displeasure of his diocesan bishops, none of whom ever consented to visit the parish during his incumbency.
During the Boer War (1899–1902) Tatham served as an Army chaplain. He was married on 14 January 1886 to Miss Louisa Valetta Buller at St Matthias, Earl's Court by the Bishop of Lincoln and prominent Anglo-Catholic, Edward King. Mrs Tatham outlived her husband by six months.


== Present day ==
Since the time of Tatham St Wilfrid's has been part of the Anglo-Catholic movement in the Church of England and is a parish of The Society under the patronage of St Wilfrid and St Hilda. The population of the parish expanded greatly in the post-war period and currently stands at 14,063. The Church is also associated with the group Forward in Faith and receives alternative episcopal oversight from the Bishop of Beverley (currently Stephen Race).


== Organ ==
The organ dates from 1905 and was installed by John Compton. A specification of the organ can be found on the National Pipe Organ Register.


== References ==

Amedeo Marchi (8 February 1889 – 6 October 1968) was an Italian gymnast who competed in the 1908 Summer Olympics. In 1908, he finished sixth with the Italian team in the team competition.


== References ==


== External links ==
Amedeo Marchi at Olympedia

Manuel Murillo Toro (January 1, 1816–December 26, 1880) was a Colombian statesman who served as President of the United States of Colombia (present day Colombia) on two occasions, first from 1864 to 1866, and again between 1872 and 1874.


== Biographic data ==
Murillo was born in the town of Chaparral, Tolima on January 1, 1816. He received a law degree from the University of Bogotá. He died in Bogotá, Cundinamarca, on December 26, 1880.


== Early career ==
His articles in the daily press attracted attention due to their energetic opposition to the Conservative government of José Ignacio de Márquez from 1837 to 1840. After the revolution of the latter year he became editor of the Gaceta Mercantil de Santa Marta, which exercised a great influence, and paved the way for the triumph of the Partido Liberal Colombiano in the elections of 1849. He was elected to the chamber of representatives, and soon attained a reputation for eloquence. He was called to serve as Secretary of State and then Secretary of the Treasury during the administration of President José Hilario López.
As Secretary of the Treasury, he established liberty of industry and the decentralization of the provincial revenues, and thus prepared the way for the future federal institutions. At the same time, he defended the administration in the press, and initiated the greater part of the progressive reforms that were established by it, such as the abolition of slavery, abolition of the death penalty for political crimes and abolition of several fiscal monopolies. He advocated liberty of the press, and the reform of the civil code.
In 1852 he was an unsuccessful candidate for the vice presidency of the Republic. When the Liberal party lost power he returned to journalism, and, except during the short time that he was state executive for Santander, he sustained an energetic opposition to the Conservative government. When President Mariano Ospina Rodríguez was overthrown, and the federation proclaimed by the constituent convention of Rio Negro, 4 February 1863, Murillo was appointed minister to Europe, and afterward to the United States.


== First Presidency ==
Murillo ran for President of Colombia in the general election of 1864 representing the Partido Liberal Colombiano. The Colombian Conservative Party abstained from participating in this election. Murillo had two other liberal opponents, Tomás Cipriano de Mosquera and Santos Gutiérrez. Murillo won the election and was elected president for the 1864-1866 presidential term. During his administration, noted for its conciliatory spirit, the first telegraph lines were established.
After his term as president was over, he was elected to the federal senate. For his opposition to some arbitrary measures of President Mosquera he was arrested with others, by order of Mosquera, when the congress was dissolved in March 1867. After the deposition of Mosquera, 25 May 1867, Murillo was a member of the legislature of Cundinamarca, and afterward for a short time again minister to the United States and judge of the supreme court. In all these posts, he was notable for his consistent adherence to the doctrines that he had proclaimed as a journalist and legislator.


== Second Presidency ==
Murillo ran a second time for President of Colombia in the general election of 1872, representing the Colombian Liberal Party. He was aided in part by the Conservative party. Murillo had two other opponents, Manuel Mallarino and Julián Trujillo Largacha. Murillo won the election and was elected president for the 1872-1874 presidential term. In winning this election, Murillo became the first civilian to be elected President of Colombia for a second time.


== Later career ==
His successor to the Presidency, Santiago Pérez de Manosalbas, although belonging to the opposite party, sent him as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Venezuela to arrange the pending question of boundaries according to the proposal of Guzman Blanco. As Murillo controverted with great ability on all the points that were brought up by the Venezuelan commissioner, no treaty could be agreed on. Murillo was again elected senator in 1878, and occupied his seat in the next session of congress, but sickness prevented him from attending in 1880, and he died in the same year.


== Major accomplishments ==
Murillo sponsored, supported and enacted legislation to bring into law the rights of freedom of religion, freedom of assembly and freedom of the press. He also established the National Press and Telegraph Institute and the National Cartography Institute.


== References ==

During the early stages of World War II, the United Kingdom and France made a series of proposals to send troops to assist Finland against the Soviet Union during the Winter War, which started on 30 November 1939. The plans involved the transit of British and French troops and equipment through neutral Norway and Sweden. The initial plans were abandoned because Norway and Sweden declined transit through their land for fear that their countries would be drawn into the war. The Moscow Peace Treaty ended the Winter War in March 1940, which precluded the possibility of intervention.


== Background ==
The Winter War started in November 1939. In February 1940, a Soviet offensive broke through the Mannerheim Line on the Karelian Isthmus, which exhausted Finnish defenses and forced the country's government to accept peace negotiations on Soviet terms. As the news that Finland might be forced to cede its sovereignty to the Soviet Union, public opinion in France and Britain, which already supported Finland, swung for military intervention. When rumors of an armistice reached governments in Paris and London, both decided to offer military support.
Finland's resistance to the Soviet invasion, from November 1939 to March 1940, came while there was a military stalemate on the continent called the "Phoney War". Attention turned to the Nordic Theatre. Months of planning at the highest civilian, military and diplomatic levels in London and Paris saw multiple reversals and deep divisions.
Finally, the British and French agreed on a plan that involved uninvited invasions of Norway, Sweden, Iceland and Denmark's Faroe Islands with the goals of damaging the German war economy and assisting Finland in its war with the Soviet Union. An Allied war against the Soviet Union was part of the plan. The main naval launching point would be Royal Navy's base at Scapa Flow, in the Orkney Islands.
The Soviet invasion of Finland excited widespread outrage at both popular and elite levels in support of Finland not only in Britain and France but also in the neutral United States. The League of Nations declared the Soviet Union to be the aggressor and expelled it. "American opinion makers treated the attack on Finland as dastardly aggression worthy of daily headlines, which thereafter exacerbated attitudes toward Russia".
The real Allied goal was economic warfare: to cut off shipments of Swedish iron ore to Germany, which was calculated to weaken German war industry seriously. The British Ministry of Economic Warfare stated that the project against Norway would be likely to cause "An extremely serious repercussion on German industrial output... [and the Swedish component] might well bring German industry to a standstill and would in any case have a profound effect on the duration of the war". The idea was to shift forces away from doing little on the static Western Front to playing an active role on a new front.
The British military leadership, by December, had supported the idea enthusiastically after it had realised that its first choice, an attack on German oil supplies, would not get approval. Winston Churchill, now leading the Admiralty, pushed hard for an invasion of Norway and Sweden to help the Finns and to cut the iron supplies. Likewise, political and military leaders in Paris strongly supported the plan because it would put their troops in action. The poor performance of the Soviets against the Finns strengthened the confidence of the Allies that the invasion, and the resulting war against the Soviets would be worthwhile. However, the civilian leadership of Neville Chamberlain's government in London drew back and postponed invasion plans. Also, neutral Norway and Sweden refused to co-operate.


== Initial Allied approaches ==

The first intervention plan, approved on 4–5 February 1940 by the Allied High Command, consisted of 100,000 British and 35,000 French troops, which would disembark at the Norwegian port of Narvik and support Finland via Sweden while they secured supply routes along the way. Plans were made to launch the operation on 20 March under the condition of a formal request for assistance from the Finnish government to avoid German charges that the Franco-British forces were an invading army. On 2 March, transit rights were officially requested from the governments of Norway and Sweden. It was hoped that Allied intervention would eventually bring the neutral Nordic countries, Norway and Sweden, to the Allies by strengthening their positions against Germany, but Hitler had by December declared to the Swedish government that Franco-British troops on Swedish soil would immediately provoke a German invasion.
The Franco-British plan, as initially designed, proposed a defence of all of Scandinavia north of a line Stockholm–Gothenburg or Stockholm–Oslo (the British concept of the Lake Line following the lakes of Mälaren, Hjälmaren, and Vänern), which would provide a good natural defense some 1,700–1,900 kilometres (1,100–1,200 mi) south of Narvik. The planned frontier involved Sweden's two largest cities but also could result in large amounts of Swedish territory to be occupied by a foreign army or to become a war zone. The plan was revised to include only the northern half of Sweden and the narrow adjacent Norwegian coast.


== Norwegian reaction ==
The Norwegian government denied transit rights to the proposed Franco-British expedition.


== Swedish reaction ==

The Swedish government, headed by Prime Minister Per Albin Hansson, declined to allow transit of armed troops through Swedish territory although Sweden had not declared itself neutral in the Winter War. The Swedish government argued that since it had declared a policy of neutrality in the war between France, Britain and Germany, the granting of transit rights by Sweden to a French-British corps, even if it would not be used against Germany, was still an illegal departure from international laws on neutrality.
That strict interpretation appears to have been a pretext to avoid angering the Soviet and German governments. Another interpretation was to deny the Allies an opportunity to fight Germany far from Britain or France and to destroy the Swedish infrastructure in the process.
The Swedish Cabinet also decided to reject repeated Finnish pleas for regular Swedish troops to be deployed in Finland and the Swedes and made it clear that their present support in arms and munitions could not be maintained for much longer. Diplomatically, Finland was squeezed between Allied hopes for a prolonged war and Swedish and Norwegian fears that the Allies and Germans might soon be fighting each other on Swedish and Norwegian soil. Norway and Sweden also feared an influx of Finnish refugees if Finland lost to the Soviets.
Fifteen months later, the Swedish government conceded to German demands for transit rights of one division across Sweden for German troops on their way from occupied Norway to Finland to join the German attack on the Soviet Union. A total of 2,140,000 German soldiers on leave and more than 100,000 German military railway carriages crossed neutral Swedish territory during the next three years.


== Further Allied proposals and effect on peace negotiations ==
Germany and Sweden pressured Finland to accept peace on unfavourable conditions, but Britain and France had the opposite objective. Different plans and figures were presented for the Finns. France and Britain promised to send 20,000 men, who were to arrive by the end of February. By the end of that month, Finnish Commander-in-Chief, Field Marshal Mannerheim was pessimistic about the military situation and on 29 February, the government decided to start peace negotiations. The same day, the Soviets commenced an attack against Viipuri.
When France and Britain realized that Finland was considering a peace treaty, they gave a new offer of 50,000 troops, if Finland asked for help before 12 March. Finland hoped for Allied intervention, but its position became increasingly hopeless. Its agreement to an armistice on 13 March signalled defeat. On 20 March, a more aggressive Paul Reynaud became prime minister of France and demanded an immediate invasion; Chamberlain and the British cabinet finally agreed and orders were given of Operation Wilfred to provoke a justification. However, Germany invaded first and quickly conquered Denmark and southern Norway in Operation Weserübung, repelling Allied counter-efforts in Scandinavia. With the British failure in Norway, Britain decided it immediately needed to set up naval and air bases in Iceland. Despite Iceland's plea for neutrality, Britain considered its occupation as a military necessity. The British occupied the Faroe Islands on 13 April, and the decision made to occupy Iceland on 6 May.


== See also ==
Operation Wilfred, scheme to mine the neutral Norwegian waters.
Allied campaign in Norway
Foreign support in the Winter War
Plan R 4, plan for the invasion of Northern Norway and Sweden.
Swedish iron mining during World War II
Operation Pike, strategic bombing of Soviet oilfields in Caucasus.


== References ==


=== Citations ===


=== General bibliography ===

International Society for Laboratory Hematology (ISLH) is a non-profit organization founded in 1992 to provide a forum for the dissemination of new ideas and information related to the field of laboratory hematology.


== History ==
In 1984, Dr. Berend Houwen began organizing meetings that brought together scientists, manufacturers representatives, clinicians, and regulatory representatives to exchange ideas on technical innovations in laboratory hematology. The first meeting was held in Banff, Alberta, Canada.
At the time of incorporation, the founding members agreed to start a new journal for the publication of research and review articles in the broadening arena of laboratory hematology. In 2003, this journal, Laboratory Hematology, began to be officially indexed by the National Center for Biotechnology Information. The current journal, The International Journal of Laboratory Hematology, is the official journal of the ISLH. It provides an international forum for new developments in the practice and research of laboratory hematology and includes invited reviews, original articles, research results, and correspondence.
In 2001, the organization published the first flow-based reference method for platelet counting. In 2005, it published a document titled The International Consensus Group for Hematology Review: Suggested Criteria for Action Following Automated CBC and White Blood Cell Differential Analysis, which gathered 20 hematology laboratorians from around the globe to share their views on the slide review. ISLH also maintains affiliation with the International Committee for Standardization in Hematology (ICSH) and sponsors review studies in its field.
ISLH has also expanded its focus to include a number of sub-disciplines related to laboratory hematology, including cellular analysis, flow cytometry, hemostasis and thrombosis, molecular diagnostics, hematology informatics, hemoglobinopathies, hemolytic anemias, point-of-care testing, and standards and guidelines. ISLH addresses these with symposia, research, and journal reviews. As of 2015, the ISLH has about 900 members from more than 50 countries. The society organizes annual international scientific meetings held in the United States, Europe or Asia.


== ISLH Annual Symposium ==
The meeting, held annually in the spring, brings together laboratory hematologists professionals from around the world to discuss critical issues in laboratory hematology. The symposium features a combination of invited speakers, oral and poster presentations presentations, and commercial exhibits/workshops.


== References ==


== External links ==
International Society for Laboratory Hematology website
International Journal of Laboratory Hematology. journal

Heliconia collinsiana (platanillo) of family Heliconiaceae is an erect herb typically growing 10–15 feet (3.0–4.6 m) tall, native to Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua and southern Mexico (Chiapas, Oaxaca, Guerrero, Tabasco, Nayarit, Jalisco, Veracruz, Michoacán).


== Uses ==
Heliconia collinsiana is a popular ornamental plant in hot regions with a humid climate. The fruits are showy, first yellow and then ripening to a bright purple-blue. It can be cultivated outdoors in frost-free areas of Southern California. It is usually grown in full sun to light shade (50% sun) and in rich, well-drained soils.


== References ==


== External links ==
Heliconia collinsiana observations on iNaturalist

Rasmus Nielsen (born September 8, 1990) is a Danish ice hockey player who is currently playing for the Herning Blue Fox of the AL-Bank Ligaen.
Nielsen competed in the 2013 IIHF World Championship as a member of the Denmark men's national ice hockey team.


== Career statistics ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Biographical information and career statistics from Eliteprospects.com, or The Internet Hockey Database

Mylothris ochracea, the ochreous dotted border, is a butterfly in the family Pieridae. It is found in Nigeria and Cameroon. The habitat consists of primary forests.
The larvae feed on Santalales species.


== References ==

Seitz, A. Die Gross-Schmetterlinge der Erde 13: Die Afrikanischen Tagfalter. Plate XIII 10

Luke Patrick Reilly (born November 23, 1995) is an American-born Canadian medley swimmer. He is an international medalist and a multiple time national champion in multiple events. He was born in Dallas, Texas, and raised in Richmond, British Columbia. He trains with the Vancouver National Swim Centre.
In 2015, Luke competed at the Pan Am Games in Toronto. He won a silver medal in the 400 meter individual medley.
In 2016 Luke was left off of the Rio Olympic team. Although he missed the Swimming Canada imposed cut by 0.03, he met the Olympic requirements and won the 400 m by 4 seconds. He also won the 200IM. In the winter of 2015, Luke designed a line of loungewear. However, after missing the Rio Olympics, the line was discontinued.
Despite having a back injury, Luke competed in the 29th Summer Universiade in Taipei City in August 2017, where he took part in both the 400 m individual medley and 200 m individual medley, being eliminated in the heats with a time of 4:24.51 and the semifinals with a time of 2:03.44 respectively.
He competed at the 2014 Commonwealth Games and finished seventh in the 400 m individual medley and eighth in the same event at the 2014 Pan Pacific Swimming Championships.


== References ==


== External links ==
Luke Patrick Reilly  at World Aquatics
Luke Reilly at Swimrankings.net
Luke Reilly at Swimming Canada
Luke Reilly at Team Canada
Luke Reilly at the Commonwealth Games Federation (archived)
Luke Reilly on Instagram

This list of dog diseases is a selection of diseases and other conditions found in the dog. Some of these diseases are unique to dogs or closely related species, while others are found in other animals, including humans. Not all of the articles listed here contain information specific to dogs. Articles with non-dog information are marked with an asterisk (*).


== Infectious diseases ==


=== Viral infections ===
Rabies (hydrophobia) is a fatal viral disease that can affect any mammal, although the close relationship of dogs with humans makes canine rabies a zoonotic concern. Vaccination of dogs for rabies is commonly required by law. Please see the article dog health for information on this disease in dogs.
Canine parvovirus is a sometimes fatal gastrointestinal infection that mainly affects puppies. It occurs worldwide.
Canine coronavirus is a gastrointestinal disease that is usually asymptomatic or with mild clinical signs. The signs are worse in puppies.
Canine distemper is an often fatal infectious disease that mainly has respiratory and neurological signs.
Canine influenza is a newly emerging infectious respiratory disease. Up to 80 percent of dogs infected will have symptoms, but the mortality rate is only 5 to 8 percent.
Infectious canine hepatitis is a sometimes fatal infectious disease of the liver.
Canine herpesvirus is an infectious disease that is a common cause of death in puppies less than three weeks old.
Pseudorabies (Morbus Aujeszky) is an infectious disease that primarily affects swine, but can also cause a fatal disease in dogs with signs similar to rabies.
Canine minute virus is an infectious disease that can cause respiratory and gastrointestinal signs in young puppies.


=== Bacterial infections ===
Brucellosis is a sexually transmitted bacterial disease that can cause uveitis, abortion, and orchitis in dogs.
Leptospirosis is an infectious disease caused by a spirochaete. Symptoms include liver and kidney failure and vasculitis.
Lyme disease* is a disease caused by Borrelia burgdorferi, a spirochaete, and spread by ticks of the genus Ixodes. Symptoms in dogs include acute arthritis, anorexia and lethargy. There is no rash as is typically seen in humans.
Ehrlichiosis is a disease caused by Ehrlichia canis and spread by the brown dog tick, Rhipicephalus sanguineus. Signs include fever, vasculitis, and low blood counts.
Rocky Mountain spotted fever* is a rickettsial disease that occurs in dogs and humans. It is caused by Rickettsia rickettsii and spread by ticks of the genus Dermacentor. Signs are similar to human disease, including anorexia, fever, and thrombocytopenia.
Clostridium species can cause diarrhea in dogs. Associated species include C. perfringens and Clostridioides difficile.
Kennel cough is an infectious respiratory disease that can be caused by one of several viruses or by Bordetella bronchiseptica. It most commonly occurs in dogs in close confinement such as in kennels.


=== Fungal infections ===
Blastomycosis* is a fungal disease caused by Blastomyces dermatitidis that affects both dogs and humans. Dogs are ten times more likely to be infected than humans. The disease in dogs can affect the eyes, brain, lungs, skin, or bones.
Histoplasmosis* is a fungal disease caused by Histoplasma capsulatum that affects both dogs and humans. The disease in dogs usually affects the lungs and small intestine.
Coccidioidomycosis* is a fungal disease caused by Coccidioides immitis or Coccidioides posadasii that affects a variety of species, including dogs. In dogs signs of primary pulmonary disease include a cough, fever, weight loss, anorexia, and lethargy. Disseminated disease occurs when the fungus has spread outside of the lungs and may include clinical signs such as lameness, pain, seizures, anterior uveitis, and localized swelling. Diagnosis of Valley Fever may include multiple tests, including serology and radiology. According to a study performed in the Tucson and Phoenix area, 28% of dogs will test positive for exposure to the fungus by two years of age, but only 6% of the dogs will be ill with clinical disease. There is an increased risk of infection associated with amount of time spent outdoors, a larger roaming space accessed by the dog, and increasing age.
Cryptococcosis* is a fungal disease caused by Cryptococcus neoformans that affects both dogs and humans. It is a rare disease in dogs, with cats seven to ten times more likely to be infected. The disease in dogs can affect the lungs and skin, but more commonly the eye and central nervous system.
Ringworm is a fungal skin disease that in dogs is caused by Microsporum canis (70%), Microsporum gypseum (20%), and Trichophyton mentagrophytes (10%). Typical signs in dogs include hair loss and scaly skin.
Sporotrichosis is a fungal disease caused by Sporothrix schenckii that affects both dogs and humans. It is a rare disease in dogs, with cat and horse infections predominating in veterinary medicine. The disease in dogs is usually nodular skin lesions of the head and trunk.
Aspergillosis* is a fungal disease that in dogs is caused primarily by Aspergillus fumigatus. Infection is usually in the nasal cavity. Typical signs in dogs include sneezing, nasal discharge, bleeding from the nose, and ulcerations of the nose.
Pythiosis is a disease caused by a water mould of the genus Pythium, P. insidiosum. It occurs primarily in dogs and horses, but can also affect humans. In dogs it affects the gastrointestinal system and lymph nodes, and rarely the skin.
Mucormycosis is a collection of fungal and mold diseases in dogs including pythiosis, zygomycosis, and lagenidiosis that affect the gastrointestinal tract and skin.


=== Protozoal diseases ===
Giardiasis* is an intestinal infection in dogs caused by the protozoa Giardia lamblia. The most common symptom is diarrhea. The zoonotic potential of giardiasis is controversial.
Coccidiosis can be caused by a variety of coccidian organisms in dogs, most commonly Isospora. There are usually no symptoms, but diarrhea and weight loss may occur.
Leishmaniasis* is spread by the sandfly, and in the dog as well as human has both cutaneous and visceral forms. The dog is considered to be the reservoir for human disease in the Americas.
Babesiosis* is spread by members of the family Ixodidae, or hard ticks. The two species of the genus Babesia that affect dogs are B. canis and B. gibsoni. Babesiosis can cause hemolytic anemia in dogs.
Neosporosis* is caused by Neospora caninum
Protothecosis in dogs is caused by a mutant form of green algae and is usually disseminated. Symptoms include weight loss, uveitis, retinal detachment, and anal seepage.


=== Parasites ===


==== Internal parasites (endoparasites) ====
Trichinosis caused by Trichinella spiralis, T. britovi.
Echinococcosis is an infectious disease infecting dogs and sheep.
Heartworm disease is caused by Dirofilaria immitis, which uses the mosquito as its vector. Heartworms live in the pulmonary artery and right ventricle of the heart. Heartworm disease in dogs is spread by mosquitoes that harbor the parasite Dirofilaria immitis. Signs include cough, difficulty breathing, and death. 
Gnathostomiasis is a disease from mammal feces and undercooked seafood.
Intestinal parasites
Hookworms* are a common parasite of dogs. The most common is Ancylostoma caninum, followed by Uncinaria stenocephala and A. braziliense. Signs include diarrhea, vomiting, and weight loss.
Tapeworms* are also common and in the dog are usually Dipylidium caninum, which is spread by ingesting fleas and lice. Also common is Taenia pisiformis, spread by ingesting rabbits and rodents. Rare tapeworm infections are caused by species of the genera Echinococcus, Mesocestoides, and Spirometra. There are usually no symptoms.
Toxocariasis is an infection of Toxocara canis or Toxascaris leonina. Signs are usually mild, but may include diarrhea, pot-bellied appearance, poor growth, and vomiting.
Whipworms are parasites that live in the cecum and large intestine. The canine whipworm is Trichuris vulpis.


==== External parasites (ectoparasites) ====
Fleas* cause itching and hair loss. The most common flea in dogs is the cat flea, Ctenocephalides felis, followed by the dog flea, C. canis.
Ticks* are an external parasite of the dog and can spread diseases such as Lyme disease, Rocky Mountain spotted fever, babesiosis, and ehrlichiosis. They can also cause a neurological disorder known as tick paralysis.

Mites
Ear mites are microscopic members of the species Otodectes cynotis. Symptoms include itching, inflammation, and black debris in the ear.
Cheyletiellosis is a mild pruritic skin disease caused by Cheyletiella yasguri. Humans can be transiently infected.
Chiggers*, also known as harvest mites, can cause itching, redness and crusting of the skin.
Demodicosis, also known as demodectic mange, is caused by Demodex canis mites which live in small numbers in sebaceous glands and hair follicles. These mites can cause inflammation and hair loss, and may also lead to secondary bacterial infections such as fever, lethargy, and enlarged lymph nodes.
Sarcoptic mange is caused by Sarcoptes scabiei canis. Signs include intense itching and scaling, and is contagious to humans.


== Diseases and disorders by system ==


=== Skeletal and muscular disorders ===
Osteoarthritis*, also known as degenerative arthritis, is a common condition in dogs characterized by progressive deterioration of articular cartilage in the joints of the limbs. It can cause a great deal of pain and lameness. Treatment options include medications such as NSAIDs, corticosteroids, and joint fluid modifiers such as glycosaminoglycans. Other treatments include surgery, massage, warm compresses, chiropractic, and acupuncture.
Hip dysplasia is an inherited disease in dogs that is characterized by abnormal development of the acetabulum and head of the femur. It is more common in large breeds.
Elbow dysplasia is a condition found more commonly in large breeds. It incorporates several different hereditary conditions of the elbow, including osteochondritis of the medial condyle of the humerus, fragmentation of the medial coronoid process of the ulna, and ununited anconeal process of the ulna.
Luxating patella is a medial or lateral displacement of the patella, or kneecap. It is strongly suspected to be inherited, but can also result from trauma. It is more common in smaller breeds of dogs.
Osteochondritis dissecans (OCD) is separation of immature articular cartilage from underlying bone. It is caused by osteochondrosis, which is characterized by abnormal endochondral ossification of epiphyseal cartilage. It is most commonly seen in the stifle, elbow, shoulder, and hock.
Panosteitis is a common disease of unknown cause that causes pain and a shifting leg lameness in medium and large breed dogs. It affects the long bones of the hind and forelimbs.
Legg–Calvé–Perthes syndrome, also known as Perthes disease or avascular necrosis of the femoral head, is characterized by a deformity of the head of the femur and hip pain. It occurs in small-breed puppies.
Back pain* in dogs, particularly in long-backed breeds, such as Basset Hounds and Dachshunds, is usually caused by intervertebral disk disease. It is caused by degeneration and protrusion of the disk and compression of the spinal cord. It occurs most commonly in the cervical and thoracolumbar regions. Signs include back pain, hind limb weakness, and paralysis.
Congenital vertebral anomalies, including butterfly, block, and transitional vertebrae, and hemivertebrae, are a collection of malformations of the spine in animals. Most are not clinically significant, but they can cause compression of the spinal cord by deforming the vertebral canal or causing instability.
Craniomandibular osteopathy is a hereditary disease in West Highland White Terriers and also occurs in other terrier breeds. It is a developmental disease in puppies causing extensive bony changes in the mandible and skull. Signs include pain upon opening the mouth.
Hypertrophic osteopathy is a bone disease secondary to disease in the lungs. It is characterized by new bone formation on the outside of the long bones.
Hypertrophic osteodystrophy is a bone disease in rapidly growing large breed dogs. Signs include swelling of the metaphysis (the part of the bone adjacent to the joint), pain, depression, loss of appetite, and fever. The disease is usually bilateral in the limb bones.
Spondylosis*, known as spondylosis deformans in dogs, is growth of osteophytes on the ventral and lateral surfaces of the vertebral bodies. It is usually an incidental finding on radiographs and rarely causes symptoms.
Masticatory muscle myositis (MMM) is an inflammatory disease in dogs affecting the muscles of the jaw. Signs include swelling of the jaw muscles and pain on opening the mouth. In chronic MMM there is atrophy of the jaw muscles, and scarring of the masticatory muscles due to fibrosis may result in inability to open the mouth (trismus).


=== Cardiovascular and circulatory ===
Platelet disorders
von Willebrand disease* is a common inherited disease in dogs caused by a deficiency of a protein called von Willebrand factor, which is involved in blood clotting. The disease varies from mild to severe, depending on the amount of von Willebrand factor present in the dog. Signs include spontaneous bleeding and excessive bleeding following surgery, injury, or during an estrous cycle.
Thrombocytopenia* is a common condition in dogs characterized by low platelet counts. Platelets are used in clotting the blood, so dogs with this condition may have spontaneous bleeding or prolonged bleeding following surgery, injury, or during an estrous cycle. Causes include some rickettsial infections such as ehrlichiosis, cancers such as hemangiosarcoma, or immune-mediated disease.
Thrombocytosis* is a condition characterized by an excess of platelets. Most cases are physiologic (caused by exercise) or reactive (secondary to some cancers, blood loss, or certain drugs). Rarely the condition is caused by a primary bone marrow disorder. In this last case, the platelets may not function normally, causing the blood to not clot properly.
Hemolytic anemia* is a type of regenerative anemia found in dogs characterized by destruction of the red blood cell. The most important type is immune-mediated hemolytic anemia, which can be a primary disease or secondary to cancer, infection, drugs, or vaccinations. Antibodies are present on the cell surface, leading to lysis and severe anemia. Other causes of hemolytic lesion include hypophosphatemia, exposure to toxins such as lead, infections such as ehrlichiosis or babesiosis, and rarely, neonatal isoerythrolysis. The behavioral condition pica, especially when involving the eating of concrete dust, tile grout, or sand, may be a sign of hemolytic anemia, indicating the need for a complete blood count to investigate a possible diagnosis.
Heart diseases
Degenerative (myxomatous) mitral valve disease* is a common cause of congestive heart failure in dogs, especially small, older dogs. The leaflets of the valve become thickened and nodular, leading to mitral valve regurgitation and volume overload of the left side of the heart. Cavalier King Charles Spaniels and Dachshunds have an inherited form of this disease.
Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a disease of heart muscle resulting in decreased myocardial contractility. The left ventricle compensates for this disease by growing larger (eccentric or volume overload hypertrophy; AKA dilation). The left atrial is also dilated when the disease is severe. It is seen in large/giant dog breeds such as Boxers, Great Danes, and Doberman Pinschers. It is usually idiopathic, but can also be caused by taurine deficiency in American Cocker Spaniels or doxorubicin use. A mutation in the gene that encodes for pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 is associated with DCM in Doberman Pinschers in the USA. Dilated cardiomyopathy usually ultimately results in congestive heart failure. Atrial fibrillation is common in giant breed dogs with DCM. Doberman Pinschers more commonly have ventricular arrhythmias (e.g., premature ventricular complexes; ventricular tachycardia) that predispose them to sudden death (i.e., ventricular fibrillation).
Congestive heart failure* is the result of any severe, overwhelming heart disease that most commonly results in pulmonary edema (fluid in the lungs), pleural effusion (fluid around the lungs), and/or ascites (fluid in the abdomen). It can be caused by the above two diseases, congenital heart defects such as patent ductus arteriosus, pulmonary hypertension, heartworm (Dirofilaria immitis) disease, or pericardial effusion. Signs depend on which side of the heart is affected. Left-sided heart failure results in rapid and/or difficulty breathing and sometimes coughing from a build-up of fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema). Right-sided heart failure results in a large liver (congestion) and build-up of fluid in the abdomen (ascites), uncommonly fluid around the lungs (pleural effusion), or, rarely, peripheral edema.
Sick sinus syndrome* is most commonly seen in female Miniature Schnauzers. It is characterized by sinoatrial node dysfunction and may include atrioventricular node disease and bundle branch block. Electrocardiogram findings include sinus bradycardia, sinus arrest, sinoatrial heart block, and atrial tachycardia. The major clinical sign is fainting (syncope).
Heart defects
Subvalvular aortic stenosis (Subaortic stenosis; SAS) is a congenital disease in dogs characterized by left ventricular outflow tract obstruction by a discrete ring or tunnel of fibrous tissue immediately below the aortic valve. It is inherited in Newfoundlands, and also found in Golden Retrievers, Rottweilers, Boxers, Bulldogs, German Shepherds, and Samoyeds. Signs include a left basilar systolic heart murmur, weak femoral pulse, fainting and exercise intolerance. Dogs with severe SAS are predisposed to dying suddenly.
Pulmonic stenosis* is a congenital heart disease in dogs characterized by right ventricular outflow tract obstruction. Most commonly the narrowing occurs at the pulmonary valve but it can also occur below the valve (subvalvular) or above the valve (supravalvular). The most commonly affected breeds include terriers, Bulldogs, Miniature Schnauzers, Chihuahuas, Samoyeds, Beagles, Keeshonds, Mastiffs, and Bullmastiffs. Signs may include exercise intolerance, but often there is only a heart murmur.
Ventricular septal defect* is a hole in the division between the heart ventricles (interventricular septum). It is a congenital heart disease in dogs. There usually are no signs in dogs except for a heart murmur. However, a large defect can result in heart failure or in pulmonary hypertension leading to a right-to-left shunt.
Atrial septal defect* is a hole in the division between the heart atria (upper chambers of the heart). It is an uncommon abnormality in dogs. Most are not clinically significant, but large defects can cause right heart failure and exercise intolerance. Standard Poodles are the most common breed diagnosed with ASD in the USA.
Tetralogy of Fallot* is a congenital heart defect in dogs that includes four separate defects: pulmonic stenosis, a ventricular septal defect, right ventricular hypertrophy, and an overriding aorta. Keeshonds and Bulldogs are predisposed. Signs include cyanosis and exercise intolerance. Polycythemia is often present and, if severe, needs to be controlled with phlebotomy or drugs to suppress red blood cell production.
Patent ductus arteriosus* is one of the most common congenital heart defect in dogs around the world. It is inherited in toy and miniature Poodles, and seen commonly in German Shepherds, Pomeranians, Bichon Frises, and Malteses. Signs include a continuous heart murmur, bounding (strong) femoral pulse, tachypnea (increased breathing rate), dyspnea (labored breathing), and exercise intolerance.
Heart valve dysplasia (including mitral and tricuspid valve dysplasia) is a congenital heart abnormality in dogs. Dysplasia of the mitral and tricuspid valves - also known as the atrioventricular (AV) valves - can appear as thickened, shortened, or notched valves. Chordae tendineae are also usually abnormal.
Cor triatriatum*, specifically cor triatriatum dexter, occurs in dogs and is characterized by a fibrous division of the right atrium into two chambers, usually with a hole in between them. It results in right heart failure (ascites). It can be treated by balloon valvuloplasty or surgical resection.
Pericardial effusion* is a collection of fluid in the pericardium. It is usually serosanguinous (bloody fluid). Serosanguinous accumulation can be caused by cancer, usually hemangiosarcoma or a heart base tumor, idiopathic pericarditis. Rare causes include trauma, clotting disorders, and left atrial rupture. Serous accumulation is rare and caused by heart failure, peritoneopericardial diaphragmatic hernias, uremia, pericardial cysts, or hypoalbuminemia. Rarely pericardial effusion can be caused by infection and consist of pus. An echocardiogram should be done prior to draining the fluid, if possible, to identify the cause (e.g., tumor). Drainage of the fluid (pericardiocentesis) relieves the clinical signs and, in the case of idiopathic pericarditis, can be curative.
Pulmonary hypertension* is high pressure in the pulmonary artery. In dogs it can be caused by heartworm disease, pulmonary thromboembolism, or chronic hypoxemia (low oxygen). It can result in right-sided heart disease (cor pulmonale). Signs include difficulty breathing, cyanosis, and exercise intolerance.
Trapped neutrophil syndrome* is an autosomal recessive disease which results in mature neutrophils being unable to migrate from the bone marrow into the blood. Affected pups have chronic infections and fail to thrive. Other symptoms can include stunted growth and a ferret like facial appearance. The disease is common in Border Collies.


=== Nervous system ===
Syringomyelia* is a condition where a fluid filled sac develops in the spinal cord. The most important cause in dogs is by a Chiari I malformation, which is when an underdeveloped occipital bone interferes with spinal fluid circulation and results in fluid accumulation in the cervical spinal cord. This is a congenital disease most commonly found in small breeds such as the Brussels Griffon and the Cavalier King Charles Spaniel. Other breeds known to be affected include the Bichon Frise, Boston Terrier, Bull Terrier, Chihuahua, French Bulldog, Havanese, King Charles Spaniel (the English Toy Spaniel), Maltese, miniature Dachshund, miniature and toy Poodle, Papillon, Pomeranian, Pug, Shih Tzu, Staffordshire Bull Terrier, and the Yorkshire Terrier. Signs may include ataxia, weakness, and neck pain.
Epilepsy in dogs can be a primary, idiopathic, inherited disorder or secondary to previous head trauma or CNS infections. Idiopathic epilepsy is commonly found in breeds such as German Shepherds, Beagles, and Dachshunds. The most common sign recurring generalized seizures beginning at a young adult age.
Rage syndrome is a rare inherited seizure disorder characterized by explosive aggression and focal neurologic symptoms. It is associated with English Springer Spaniels, English Cocker Spaniels, and Belgian Malinois, and a genetic polymorphism has been linked to the condition in Malinois. Seizures occur in the temporal lobe. It is treatable with phenobarbital and supportive antiepileptics.
Cerebellar hypoplasia is an incomplete development of the cerebellum. The most common cause in dogs is an in utero infection with canine herpesvirus. It is also seen associated with lissencephaly in Wire-haired Fox Terriers and Irish Setters, and as a separate condition in Chow Chows.
Polyneuropathy is a collection of peripheral nerve disorders that often are breed-related in dogs. Polyneuropathy indicates that multiple nerves are involved, unlike mononeuropathy. Polyneuropathy usually involves motor nerve dysfunction, also known as lower motor neuron disease.
Canine cognitive dysfunction is a progressive disease occurring in older dogs, which is similar to the dementia which occurs in humans with Alzheimer's disease.
Scotty Cramp is a disease in Scottish Terriers causing spasms and hyperflexion and hyperextension of the legs. It is caused by a disorder in serotonin metabolism that causes a deficiency of available serotonin.
Cauda equina syndrome*, also known as degenerative lumbosacral stenosis, in dogs is a compression of the cauda equina by a narrowing of the lumbosacral vertebral canal. It is most commonly seen in German Shepherd Dogs. Signs include pain, weakness, and rear limb muscle atrophy.
Coonhound paralysis is a type of polyradiculoneuritis seen in Coonhounds. The cause has been related to a raccoon bite. Signs include rear leg weakness progressing rapidly to paralysis, and decreased reflexes.
Tick paralysis* is a disease in dogs caused by a neurotoxin found in the saliva of female ticks. Dermacentor species predominate as a cause in North America, while Ixodes mainly causes the disease in Australia. There is a gradual onset of signs, which include incoordination progressing to paralysis, changed voice, and difficulty eating.
Dancing Dobermann disease is a type of myopathy that primarily affects the gastrocnemius muscle in Dobermanns. It usually starts between the ages of 6 and 7 months. One rear leg will flex while standing. Over the next few months it will begin to affect the other rear leg.
Granulomatous meningoencephalitis (GME) (including Pug Dog encephalitis and other noninfectious causes of meningoencephalitis) is an inflammatory disease of the central nervous system of dogs. It is a form of meningoencephalitis. The disease is more common in female toy dogs of young and middle age.
Facial nerve paralysis* is most commonly caused in dogs by trauma, otitis media, or as an idiopathic condition. Signs include an inability to blink, drooping of the ear, and drooping of the lips on the affected side, although in chronic conditions fibrosis occurs and the ear and lips may appear to be in an abnormal position.
Laryngeal paralysis is unilateral or bilateral paralysis of the larynx. In dogs it can be congenital, seen in the Bouvier des Flandres, Bull Terrier, Dalmatian, Rottweiler and Huskies, or an acquired, idiopathic disease, seen in older Labrador Retrievers, Golden Retrievers, St. Bernards, and Irish Setters. Signs include change in voice and difficulty breathing.
White dog shaker syndrome causes full body tremors in small, white dog breeds. It is most common in West Highland White Terriers, Maltese, Bichons, and Poodles.
Wobbler disease (cervical instability) is a condition of the cervical vertebrae that causes an unsteady gait and weakness in dogs.
Cerebellar abiotrophy is caused by the death of Purkinje cells in the cerebellum. It results in progressive ataxia beginning at a young age. It is most commonly seen in Kerry Blue Terriers and Gordon Setters.


=== Eyes ===
Eyelid diseases
Ectropion (eyelid folding outward) is a common condition in dogs, usually affecting the lower lid. Breeds associated with ectropion include the Cocker Spaniel, the St. Bernard, the Bloodhound, and the Basset Hound.
Entropion (eyelid folding inward) is a common condition in dogs, especially the Chow Chow, Shar Pei, St. Bernard, and Cocker Spaniel. Upper lid entropion involves the eyelashes rubbing on the eye, but the lower lid usually has no eyelashes, so hair rubs on the eye. Surgical correction is used in more severe cases.
Distichia (including ectopic cilia) is an eyelash that arises from an abnormal spot on the eyelid. Distichiae usually cause no symptoms because the lashes are soft, but they can irritate the eye and cause tearing, squinting, inflammation, and corneal ulcers.
Chalazion* is a granuloma that forms in the eyelid due to blocked secretions from the meibomian gland. Inflammation of the eyelid may result.
Trichiasis in dogs is hair from the eyelid growing in the wrong direction and rubbing on the eye, causing irritation. It usually occurs at the lateral upper eyelid, especially in the English Cocker Spaniel.
Lens diseases
Cataracts* are an opacity in the lens of the eye. Most cataracts in dogs are caused by a genetic predisposition, but diabetes mellitus is also a common cause. The only effective treatment is surgical removal.
Lens luxation is a displacement of the lens from its normal position. Terrier breeds are predisposed.
Nuclear sclerosis is a consistent finding in dogs greater than seven years old. Nuclear sclerosis appears as a bilateral bluish-grey haziness at the nucleus, or center of the lens, and has little effect on vision. This is may be confused with cataracts.
Retinal diseases
Progressive retinal atrophy (PRA) is a genetic disease of the retina that occurs bilaterally and is seen in certain breeds of dogs. It causes progressive vision loss culminating in blindness.
Retinal dysplasia is an eye disease affecting the retina. It is usually a nonprogressive disease and can be caused by viral infections, drugs, vitamin A deficiency, or genetics. Retinal dysplasia is characterized by folds or rosettes (round clumps) of the retinal tissue.
Sudden acquired retinal degeneration (SARD) is a disease in dogs causing sudden blindness. It can occur in any breed. The cause is unknown, but possibly involves either autoimmune disease, a toxin, or Cushing's disease. Symptoms include sudden permanent blindness, dilated pupils, and loss of the pupillary light reflex.
Retinal detachment* is caused in dogs by genetic disorders such as retinal dysplasia or Collie eye anomaly, trauma, inflammation or cancer. Reattachment may occur spontaneously or with medical or surgical therapy.
Corneal diseases
Corneal dystrophy is a condition characterized by bilateral, noninflammatory opacity of the cornea. It appears as grayish white lines, circles, or clouding of the cornea. Corneal dystrophy can also have a crystalline appearance.
Corneal ulcer, or ulcerative keratitis, is an inflammatory condition of the cornea involving loss of its outer layer. They are caused by trauma, detergent burns, and infections. Other eye conditions can cause corneal ulcers, such as entropion, distichia, corneal dystrophy, and keratoconjunctivitis sicca.
Florida keratopathy an eye condition characterized by the presence of multiple spots within both corneas. In the United States, it is found most commonly in the southeastern part of the country.
Chronic superficial keratitis (pannus) is a form of superficial keratitis, or inflammation of the cornea, found most commonly in German Shepherds, Greyhounds, and Siberian Huskies.
Collie eye anomaly (CEA) is a congenital, inherited, bilateral eye disease of dogs involving the retina, choroid, and sclera. It can be a mild disease or cause blindness. It is known to occur in Smooth and Rough Collies, Shetland Sheepdogs, Australian Shepherds, Border Collies, and Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retrievers.
Cherry eye is the term used to refer to canine nictitans gland prolapse, a common eye condition in various dog breeds where the gland of the third eyelid prolapses and becomes visible.
Canine glaucoma is an increase of pressure within the eye. It is a common condition in dogs. It can be caused by abnormal development of the drainage angle of the eye, lens luxation, uveitis, or cancer. Cocker Spaniels, Poodles, and Basset Hounds are predisposed.
Ocular melanosis (OM) is a disease of the eye which in dogs is almost found exclusively in the Cairn Terrier. The disease is caused by an increase of melanocytes in the iris, sclera, and surrounding structures.
Keratoconjunctivitis sicca (dry eye) is common in dogs. Symptoms include eye redness, a yellow or greenish discharge, ulceration of the cornea, pigmented cornea, and blood vessels on the cornea.
Vogt–Koyanagi–Harada syndrome is a condition seen in dogs characterized by uveitis (inflammation of the inside of the eye), poliosis (whitening of hair), and vitiligo (loss of pigment in the skin).
Conjunctivitis* is inflammation of the conjunctiva. In dogs it is most commonly caused by mechanical irritation (such as by entropion, ectropion, or trichiasis), allergies, and keratoconjunctivitis sicca. Any bacterial infection is usually secondary.
Eye proptosis is a condition resulting in forward displacement and entrapment of the eye from behind by the eyelids. It is a common result of head trauma in dogs. Most commonly it occurs in brachycephalic (short nosed) breeds.
Horner's syndrome* results from damage to the sympathetic innervation of the eye. Signs include enophthalmos (sunken eye), miosis (small pupil), elevated third eyelid, and ptosis (drooping of the upper eyelid). Usually the syndrome in dogs is idiopathic, but it can also be caused by trauma, tumors, or ear infections.
Optic neuritis* is inflammation of the optic nerves. In dogs this is most commonly caused by granulomatous meningoencephalitis or infection.
Persistent pupillary membrane is a condition of the eye involving remnants of a fetal membrane that persist as strands of tissue crossing the pupil.
Uveitis* is inflammation within the eye. Anterior uveitis (inflammation of the iris and ciliary body) is most common in dogs. The disease is usually immune-mediated in dogs, but may also be caused by trauma, cataracts, infectious canine hepatitis, leptospirosis, ehrlichiosis, or systemic fungal infections.
Asteroid hyalosis is a degenerative condition of the eye involving small white opacities in the vitreous humor. The cause is unknown.
Synchysis scintillans is a degenerative condition of the eye resulting in liquified vitreous humor and the accumulation of cholesterol crystals within the vitreous.
Iris cysts are small hollow structures either attached to the iris of the eye or floating free in the anterior chamber.
Imperforate lacrimal punctum is a congenital disorder of dogs involving the lack of an opening to the nasolacrimal duct (tear duct) in the conjunctiva.
Exophthalmos is a normal condition in brachycephalic (short nosed) dog breeds because of the shallow orbit. However, it can lead to keratitis secondary to exposure of the cornea.


=== Ears ===
Ear infections are common in dogs, particularly breeds with hanging ears, such as Beagles, and dogs with narrow ear canals, such as Cocker Spaniels. Other predisposing factors include allergies, ear parasites, and hypothyroidism.
Deafness* in dogs can be either acquired or congenital. Predisposing factors for acquired deafness include chronic infection, use of certain drugs, and most commonly, age-related changes in the cochlea. Congenital deafness can be genetic, seen sometimes in dogs with merle or white coats, or caused by in utero damage from infections or toxins.
Fly strike dermatitis occurs at the tip and folds of the ear in dogs. It is caused by bites of the stable fly, Stomoxys calcitrans.


=== Skin ===

Allergies*
Atopy* is an allergy to a substance with which the dog is not necessarily in direct contact. It is a type I hypersensitivity to a substance that is inhaled or absorbed through the skin. Up to 10 percent of dogs are affected. It is common in dogs, especially seen in breeds such as Labrador Retrievers, Golden Retrievers, and Shih Tzus. The most common symptom is itching. Affected areas include the underside, the face, the feet, and the ears.
Flea allergy dermatitis is the most common skin disease of dogs in the United States. It is caused by sensitivity to flea saliva.
Food allergy* in dogs is commonly manifested as itching, especially of the face, paws, and the underside. Skin testing has proved unreliable, and a trial of a hypoallergenic diet is usually used for diagnosis.
Follicular dysplasia is a genetic disease of dogs causing alopecia, or hair loss. It is caused by hair follicles that are misfunctioning due to structural abnormality.
Dermoid sinus a genetic, autosomal skin condition in dogs. It can appear as single or multiple lumps on the dorsal midline.

Lick granuloma also known as acral lick dermatitis, is a skin disorder in dogs resulting from an urge to lick the lower portion of the leg. The lesion from the incessant licking is a thickened, firm, oval plaque.
Pemphigus is an uncommon autoimmune skin disease. The most common form in dogs is pemphigus foliaceus, which manifests as erosions and crusting of the skin and mucocutaneous junctions. Pemphigus vulgaris is more rare and manifests as blister-like lesions in the mouth and at mucocutaneous junctions. Bullous pemphigoid is most commonly seen in Dobermanns and Collies and appears as a scald-like lesion of the groin.
Sebaceous adenitis is an uncommon autoimmune skin disease. Most commonly found in Akitas and Standard Poodles.
Dermal fragility syndrome, also known as Ehlers–Danlos-like syndrome, is a rare condition in dogs characterized by increased skin elasticity and poor wound healing. There appears to be a genetic basis for the disease.
Discoid lupus erythematosus is an uncommon autoimmune disease of the skin in dogs. It does not progress to systemic lupus erythematosus in dogs. The most common initial symptom is scaling and loss of pigment on the nose.
Juvenile cellulitis, also known as puppy strangles, is a disease that affects puppies. Its cause is unknown, but it is likely to have a hereditary component related to the immune system.


=== Endocrine diseases ===

Diabetes mellitus in dogs is type 1, or insulin dependent diabetes: a lack of insulin production due to destruction of pancreatic beta cells. Current research indicates no evidence of type 2 diabetes in dogs. Among the causes of diabetes mellitus in dogs are autoimmune disease or severe pancreatitis. Forms of diabetes which may not be permanent, depending on the amount of damage to the beta cells of the endocrine pancreas, are transient and secondary diabetes. Some causes of transient or secondary diabetes are Cushing's syndrome, glucocorticoid, progestin or other steroid use, and the hormones of pregnancy or heat. In these cases, correcting the primary medical issue may mean a return to non-diabetic status. Common signs include weight loss, increased drinking and urination, and cataracts. Treatment involves insulin replacement therapy, and use of a diet high in fiber and complex carbohydrates. Oral diabetes medications cannot be used for dogs because none repair or surmount the permanent damage to the beta cells of the pancreas. 
Thyroid diseases, including:
Hyperthyroidism is rare in dogs. The most common cause is thyroid carcinoma, a malignant tumor. Signs include weight loss, increased appetite, and enlargement of the thyroid gland.
Hypothyroidism is the most common endocrine disease in dogs. It can be caused by autoimmune destruction (lymphocytic thyroiditis) or idiopathic atrophy of the thyroid gland. These two causes are responsible for over 95% of the hypothyroidism cases in dogs. Signs include decreased appetite, weight gain, hair loss, dry skin/coat, skin that is cold to the touch, recurring skin infections, and lethargy. The dog may also seek out warm places to lie. The symptoms of hypothyroidism are shared with many other medical conditions; it may not be the first thought when a diagnosis is made. Symptoms may not appear until 75% or more of the gland is non-functional. In less than 10% of hypothyroidism cases, the problem is not with the thyroid gland itself, but with the pituitary gland in the brain. The pituitary gland produces a thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH); without this hormone to signal the thyroid gland to produce its thyroid hormone, the thyroid gland remains inactive. Treatment is with oral thyroid hormone supplementation. Lack of enough iodine in the diet can produce a form of hypothyroidism; without the proper amount of it, the thyroid gland fails to produce enough thyroid hormone. Myxedema coma is a rare but serious aspect of the disease that is a medical emergency.
Hypoadrenocorticism, also known as Addison's disease, is a reduction of production of glucocorticoids and mineralocorticoids by the adrenal glands. There is more familiarity with the glucocortcoids, such as cortisol; mineralocorticoids control the amount of potassium, salt and water in the body. It is most commonly caused by destruction of adrenal tissue, probably by autoimmune disease. Signs include increased drinking and urination, vomiting, diarrhea, collapse, shivering and weight loss; at times neither the causes nor symptoms are especially specific. Because of this it is sometimes referred to as "the Great Mimic" or "the Great Imitator". It is possible not to see any symptoms of the disease until the adrenal cortex is 90% dysfunctional. Addison's can occur when regular steroid use is abruptly discontinued; during their use, the system the adrenal gland does not function at 100%. The system senses sufficient levels of these hormones in the body and does not signal for their production. Tapering the medication off gradually allows them to return to full production after discontinuation. About 35% of affected dogs are not diagnosed until they experience an Addisonian crisis, which outwardly appears to be a "classic" shock and is a medical emergency. Hyperkalemia can develop and cause severe bradycardia. Only typical Addison's patients have the risk of Addisonian crisis due to the lack of mineralocorticoids. Treatment is with supplementation of mineralocorticoids in daily pills or a monthly injection. The atypical form and the form caused by abrupt withdrawal of steroids do not need mineralocorticoids. Glucocorticoids are usually supplemented with oral prednisone. 
Cushing's syndrome, also known as hyperadrenocorticism, is characterized by an increase in glucocorticoids secreted by the adrenal glands. About 85 percent of cases are caused by a tumor in the pituitary gland, while 15 percent are caused by an adrenal tumor. The pituitary gland produces a hormone that signals the adrenal gland to produce cortisol; a tumor can cause it to produce the adrenal-stimulating hormone even when it is not needed. Signs include increased appetite, increased drinking and urination, a pot-bellied appearance, muscle weakness, and lethargy. Cushing's can be caused by overuse of steroid medications; in some cases, stopping the medication is enough to solve the problem. Diagnosis can be difficult as there are no tests with both high sensitivity and specificity. Treatments include mitotane, trilostane, ketoconazole, or selegiline. Surgery is used in some cases of adrenal tumors.
Diabetes insipidus* in dogs can be central, caused by a lack of antidiuretic hormone (ADH), or nephrogenic, caused by a lack of response of the kidneys to ADH. Neither form is common. Central diabetes insipidus (CDI) is usually idiopathic, but can also be caused by head trauma or tumors of the brain. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) can be primary (hereditary) or secondary (caused by a variety of metabolic and renal diseases, including Cushing's syndrome and pyometra). Because the disease is characterized by an inability to concentrate urine, the most common sign is increased drinking and urinating. Treatment of CDI is to use desmopressin, a synthetic analog of ADH. Treatment of NDI is to treat the underlying cause, if any.
Acromegaly (also known as hypersomatotropism) is a hormonal condition resulting from over-secretion of the growth hormone somatotropin from the pituitary gland. The hormone is responsible for growth from birth to adulthood. Normally in adulthood, the growth plates of the bones close and the secretion of the hormone slows considerably. Because the bone plates close when entering maturity, the continued growth of acromegaly is not of normal proportions. Most dogs with the disease are unspayed females, but the condition can come about with use of medications containing progesterone. Acromegaly patients often also have diabetes mellitus. There is a transient form of acromegaly which can affect females at the diestrus portion of the reproductive cycle. This condition is brought about by the mammary glands excreting excess growth hormone, which is triggered by progesterone from the ovaries. As with non-transient acromegaly, spaying is necessary. The symptoms can include overgrowth or enlargement of gums with wide spaces between teeth, increased drinking, increased urination, thickening of the skin and skin folds, enlargement of the tongue and excessive panting. Acromegaly is also possible from a somatotroph adenoma. The hormone somatostatin can also be useful in treatment. Since hypothyroidism is connected with the release of excess growth hormone, hypothyroidism can be mistaken for acromegaly.


=== Gastrointestinal diseases ===
Megaesophagus is a disease of the esophagus characterized by low motility and dilation. Most cases in adult dogs are idiopathic. It is the most common cause of regurgitation in dogs. Other causes of megaesophagus include myasthenia gravis, lead poisoning, and Addison's disease.
Gastric dilatation volvulus, commonly known as bloat, is a serious condition in which the stomach swells with air (gastric dilatation), sometimes twisting on itself (volvulus). Deep-chested breeds are at a higher risk of bloating. Factors that predispose dogs to this condition are intestinal foreign bodies, intestinal cancer, intussusception, and other intestinal diseases. It has a poor prognosis.
Foreign body is an object foreign to the body that becomes lodged in the gastrointestinal tract (or other part of the dog). Dogs are susceptible to gastrointestinal obstruction due to their ability to swallow relatively large objects and pass them through the esophagus. Foreign bodies most commonly become lodged in the stomach because of the inability to pass through the pyloric sphincter, and in the jejunum.
Anal fistulae*, known as perianal fistulae in dogs, are most common in German Shepherd Dogs. They are characterized by draining tracts in the skin around the anus. The cause is unknown. Surgical treatment is common, but recently use of cyclosporine in combination with ketoconazole has been shown to be effective.
Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency is the inability to properly digest food due to a lack of digestive enzymes made by the pancreas. This disease is found frequently in dogs.
Pancreatitis*, or inflammation of the pancreas, is common in dogs. It is most commonly seen in middle-aged and older overweight dogs. Miniature Schnauzers are predisposed. Contributing factors include diabetes, hyperlipidemia, obesity, and dietary indiscretion. Signs include vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal pain, lethargy, and anorexia.
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)* is a group of diseases in dogs that are idiopathic and characterized by the presence of inflammatory cell infiltrates in the stomach and/or intestinal walls. It is a common condition. Signs include vomiting, diarrhea, and weight loss. Treatment is with dietary modification and use of medications such as corticosteroids, metronidazole, sulfasalazine, and azathioprine.
Bilious vomiting syndrome is vomiting in response to bile-induced inflammation of the stomach. Bile salts interfere with the gastric mucosal barrier, allowing acid to irritate the stomach lining and cause gastritis.
Intussusception* is characterized by telescoping of one part of the gastrointestinal tract into another part, forming an obstruction. It is most common in dogs six to eight months old. Surgery is necessary for treatment.
Lymphangiectasia is an intestinal disease of dogs characterized by chronic diarrhea and loss of proteins such as serum albumin and globulin. It is considered to be a chronic form of protein-losing enteropathy. Breeds commonly affected include the Soft-Coated Wheaten Terrier, Norwegian Lundehund, Basenji, and Yorkshire Terrier.
Hemorrhagic gastroenteritis is a disease of dogs characterized by sudden vomiting and bloody diarrhea. The symptoms are usually severe and can be fatal if not treated. It is most common in young adult dogs of any breed, but especially small dogs such as the Toy Poodle and Miniature Schnauzer.
Gallbladder mucocele is a disease whereby the gallbladder becomes extended with bile and mucus, which can lead to the blockage of bile outflow from the liver.


=== Urinary and reproductive systems ===
Kidney diseases
Fanconi syndrome is a type of renal tubule disease found in Basenjis. Findings include the inability to concentrate urine, and the presence of glucose, protein, and amino acids in the urine.
Kidney failure* is common in dogs and may be found in acute or chronic forms. It is defined by a loss of function of about 75 percent of the filtration system of the kidney and characterized by azotemia and low specific gravity of the urine. Acute kidney injury can be caused by loss of blood supply, hypercalcemia, or toxins such as ethylene glycol (antifreeze) or aminoglycoside antibiotics (see: ethylene glycol poisoning). Chronic kidney failure can be congenital and/or inherited or caused by cancer, infection, hypertension, glomerulonephritis, amyloidosis, progressive interstitial fibrosis, or any of the causes of acute kidney injury.
Glomerulonephritis* is the presence of immune complexes in the glomerulus, resulting in leakage of protein into the urine. It can be caused by cancer, heartworm disease, pyometra, rickettsial infection, or systemic lupus erythematosus. It can result in chronic kidney failure, hypoalbuminemia, which can cause ascites and peripheral edema, and nephrotic syndrome, which can cause hypertension or hypercoagulability.
Familial renal disease is an uncommon cause of kidney failure in young dogs. Most causes are breed-related (familial) and some are inherited.
Samoyed hereditary glomerulopathy (SHG) is an hereditary noninflammatory disease, of the renal glomeruli occurring in the Samoyed breed of dog. The disease has been shown to be a model for hereditary nephritis (HN) in humans
Urinary bladder diseases
Bladder stones or uroliths are common in dogs. The stones form in the urinary bladder in varying size and numbers secondary to infection, dietary influences, and genetics. Types of stones include struvite, calcium oxalate, urate, cystine, calcium phosphate, and silicate. Struvite and calcium oxalate stones are by far the most common.
Urinary tract infection*, specifically cystitis or bladder infection, is common in dogs and usually caused by bacteria. Signs include blood in the urine (hematuria), difficulty urinating (dysuria), and frequent urination (polyuria). The most common types of bacteria cultured from the urine of dogs with cystitis are E. coli, Staphylococcus spp., Proteus mirabilis, Streptococcus spp., Klebsiella pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Enterobacter spp.
Urinary incontinence* is leakage of urine, usually due to incompetence of the urethral sphincter in adult dogs and ectopic ureter (a congenital condition in which the ureter enters the urinary tract posterior to the urethral sphincter) in puppies. In adult dogs it is most commonly seen in large spayed females. The lack of estrogens in spayed dogs has been linked to development of incontinence. Replacement of estrogens, phenylpropanolamine, and surgery have all been used for treatment.
Reproductive diseases
Prostate disease* in dogs includes benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), prostatitis (infection of the prostate), cancer, and cysts and abscesses. BPH is the most common and is found in older intact (not neutered) dogs. Signs include blood in the urine and straining to urinate and defecate. Castration is the treatment of choice. Prostatis can be associated with BPH. Bacteria causing prostatitis include E. coli, Staphylococcus spp., Streptococcus spp., and Mycoplasma spp.
Cryptorchidism is when one the testicles is retained in the abdomen or inguinal canal past a normal stage of development. It is a common occurrence in dogs and is thought to be a sex-limited autosomal recessive trait.
False pregnancy*, or pseudocyesis, is a common condition in female intact dogs. Signs include swelling of the mammary glands, lactation, not eating, and "mothering" small objects.
Pyometra is an infection of the uterus. It is a common and potentially fatal condition in dogs. The main risk period for a female is for eight weeks after her peak standing heat (or estrus cycle) has ended.
Umbilical hernia* is a failure of the umbilical ring of the abdominal wall to close. They are very common and can be caused by genetics or by traction on the umbilical cord or by the cord being cut too close to the body. They are corrected by surgery.
Inguinal hernia* is a protrusion of abdominal contents through the inguinal canal. They are corrected through surgery.


== Cancers ==
Canine transmissible venereal tumor is a tumor of the external genitalia (penis, vulva). It is spread by sexual contact and is more common in hot and humid climates.
Hemangiosarcoma is an aggressive tumor that most often affects the heart, the spleen, the skin and subcutaneous tissues, and the liver.
Osteosarcoma* is an aggressive bone tumor that commonly spreads to the lungs. It is more common in large and giant breed dogs.
Histiocytoma is a benign skin tumor that is more frequent in young dogs (<4 years), and often regresses without treatment.
Malignant histiocytosis (histiocytic sarcoma) is an aggressive cancer found primarily in certain breeds including the Bernese Mountain Dog, rottweiler, golden retriever and flat coated retriever. It is characterized by infiltration of the joints, lungs, spleen, lymph nodes, and other organs by malignant histiocytes.
A mast cell tumor (mastocytoma) is a type of tumor normally found in the skin of dogs. It can also invade the subcutis and spread to the liver, spleen, or bone marrow.
Lymphoma (lymphosarcoma) is a malignant cancer that is classified by location, cell type, and histological grade. The most common form in dogs is multicentric, involving the lymph nodes.
Fibrosarcoma* is a malignant tumor that most commonly occurs in the mouth in dogs, and less commonly in the skin, subcutis, and bones.
Aggressive fibromatosis,* also known as desmoid fibromatosis, a type of non-metastasizing soft-tissue sarcoma, may occur in dogs.
Squamous cell carcinoma* is a malignant tumor in dogs that most commonly occurs in the oral cavity, including the tongue, tonsils, and gingiva. Squamous cell carcinoma accounts for 5 percent of skin tumors in dogs, and are the most common tumor of the toe. Dogs with unpigmented skin on the nose may develop this cancer from long-term sun exposure.
Perianal gland tumor (also called hepatoid tumor) is a type of tumor found near the anus in dogs that arises from specialized glandular tissue found in the perineum. They are most common in intact (not neutered) male dogs.
Anal sac adenocarcinoma is an uncommon and aggressive malignant tumor found in dogs that arises from the tissue of anal sac.
Melanomas* account for four to six percent of skin tumors in dogs and are usually benign. They are the second most common tumor of the toe and are malignant in this location. Melanoma is also a common oral tumor in dogs. Malignant tumors most commonly spread to the lymph nodes and lungs.
Leukemias* are progressive proliferation of cancerous white blood cells within the bone marrow, resulting in destruction of the bone marrow and pancytopenia in many cases. Types of leukemia in dogs include acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myelocytic leukemia, acute monocytic leukemia, acute myelomonocytic leukemia, acute megakaryocytic leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic basophilic leukemia, and chronic eosinophilic leukemia (or hypereosinophilic syndrome).
Plasmacytomas* are common skin tumors in dogs that derive from B lymphocytes. Most are benign. Tumors of B lymphocyte origin that affect the bone marrow and are diffuse throughout the body are malignant and are called multiple myeloma*.
Prostate cancer* is rare in dogs and occurs in both intact and neutered animals. It is malignant. The most common type is adenocarcinoma. Signs include blood in the urine and straining to urinate or defecate. It most commonly spreads to bone and the lungs.
Mammary tumors in dogs are potentially benign or malignant. They occur most commonly in non-spayed females or female that were spayed later in life.
Insulinomas* in dogs are insulin secreting tumors of the pancreas. The most common sign is hypoglycemia. They commonly metastasize to the liver.
Oral cancer* includes tumors of the tongue, tonsils, gingiva, and palate. The most common types are squamous cell carcinomas, melanomas, and fibrosarcomas.
Ocular tumors* in dogs are found in the eyelid, conjunctiva, third eyelid, cornea, sclera, iris, ciliary body, retina, choroid, optic nerve, and orbit. The most common types are Meibomian gland adenoma (eyelid), papilloma (eyelid), melanoma (eyelid, conjunctiva, sclera, iris, ciliary body, choroid), squamous cell carcinoma (conjunctiva), adenoma (ciliary body), adenocarcinoma (ciliary body), lymphoma (retina, choroid, ciliary body), medulloepithelioma (retina, choroid), ganglioglioma (retina, choroid), osteosarcoma (orbit), mast cell tumor (orbit), and optic nerve sheath meningioma.
Nasal cancer makes up one to two percent of all types of tumors in dogs. Adenocarcinoma is the most common type, followed by sarcomas such as fiborsarcoma and chondrosarcoma. Signs include sneezing and bloody nasal discharge.
Thyroid cancer* is rare and usually nonproductive in dogs (unlike in cats, in which it causes hyperthyroidism). One-third of thyroid tumors are small benign adenomas; the rest are malignant carcinomas, usually large and invasive.
Gastrointestinal cancer* is uncommon in dogs. The most common type is lymphoma. Nonlymphomatous esophageal cancer is especially rare, the most common types being squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, leiomyosarcoma, and osteogenic sarcoma associated with the parasite Spirocerca lupi. Nonlymphomatous stomach cancer is usually an adenocarcinoma, and nonlymphomatous intestinal cancer is usually polyps, adenomas, adenocarcinomas, leiomyosarcomas, and leiomyomas.
Kidney cancer* is uncommon in dogs. The most common type is renal cell carcinoma.
Lung cancer* is usually the result of metastasis in dogs. Primary tumors are rare. The most common type is adenocarcinoma.
Heart tumors* are rare in dogs. Types include hemangiosarcoma, fibrosarcoma, and fibroma.
Testicular tumors* are the most common tumor of the canine male reproductive tract. Tumor types include Sertoli cell tumor, seminoma, and interstitial cell tumor. None commonly metastasize.
Ovarian cancer* is uncommon in dogs, with the most common type being the granulosa cell tumor. This type of tumor can metastasize and can cause cystic endometrial hyperplasia.
Uterine cancer* is very rare in dogs. The most common type is benign leiomyoma.
Bladder cancer* is usually malignant in dogs. The most common type is transitional cell carcinoma.
Liver cancer* is usually metastatic in dogs. Primary tumors are and include benign hepatocellular adenoma (hepatoma) and malignant hepatic carcinoids.
Brain tumors* can be either metastatic or primary in dogs. The incidence of primary tumors is 14.5 per 100,000 dogs at risk. Types include meningioma, astrocytoma, oligodendroglioma, and undifferentiated sarcoma.


== Behavioral ==
Pica* is an appetite for, or the behavior of eating, non-nutritive substances (e.g., sand, coal, soil, chalk, paper). Pica can be dangerous to dogs. For example, dogs that eat dirt near roads that existed prior to the phaseout of tetraethyllead in gasoline or prior to the cessation of the use of contaminated oil (containing toxic PCBs) can die. In addition to poisoning, there is a risk of gastro-intestinal obstruction or tearing in the stomach or blockage of the esophagus. Pica in dogs may be a sign of immune-mediated hemolytic anemia, especially when it involves eating substances such as tile grout, concrete dust, and sand. Dogs exhibiting this form of pica should be tested for anemia with a complete blood count including hematocrit levels, or packed cell volume.
Coprophagia* is the ingestion by a dog of feces, either its own or those of another dog or animal. It can be caused by medical conditions such as exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, overfeeding, or malabsorption. It can also be a behavioral problem characterized by attention-seeking, reinforcement, or as a learned behavior. Numerous health problems can arise from this activity, including internal parasites or infection with canine parvovirus or toxoplasmosis. Treatment includes behavioral modification therapy or altering the feces to affect its taste.


== Environmental ==
Sensitivity to anaesthesia can occur in any breed, but sighthounds have been the breeds most documented to have anesthetic concerns. Sighthounds are known to have prolonged recovery times from ultra short-acting thiobarbiturates such as thiopental.
Heat stroke can occur in dogs, especially in flat-faced breeds such as the Bulldog or in giant breeds. Breed, lack of water, exercise, and high ambient temperature predispose dogs to heat stroke. Signs include vomiting, diarrhea, collapse, difficulty breathing, and body temperature approaching 42 °C to 43 °C. Treatment includes cooling the dogs with wet towels and fans, intravenous fluid therapy, and other supportive care. If a dog's temperature begins to drop to around 40 °C, stop the cooling process. Allow the dog only a couple of laps of water until the temperature begins to drop to a more normal level. Do not allow a dog to gulp large quantities of water. If a dog is panting excessively and then drinks a lot of water, large amounts of air may be swallowed along with the water and this can cause an equally life-threatening case of gastric dilatation volvulus (bloat) in the stomach.
Foxtails and sandburs can penetrate the lining of the mouth or skin and migrate, causing abscesses and draining tracts.


== Poisons and overdoses ==
Acetaminophen (paracetamol, Tylenol) can cause liver damage in dogs. The toxic dose is 150 mg/kg.
Ibuprofen (Advil)* can cause gastrointestinal irritation, stomach ulcers, and kidney damage in dogs.
Naproxen (Aleve)* has a long half-life in dogs and can cause gastrointestinal irritation, anemia, melena (digested blood in feces), and vomiting.
Antifreeze* is very dangerous to dogs and causes central nervous system depression and acute kidney injury. Treatment needs to be within eight hours of ingestion to be successful. See Ethylene glycol poisoning.
Mouse and rat poison* ingestion is common in dogs. Most rodenticides in the United States are anticoagulant by depleting vitamin K. This type is the most frequent cause of poisoning in pets. Third generation products contain brodifacoum or bromadiolone and are toxic after a single ingestion. Signs include spontaneous and excessive bleeding internally and externally. Treatment is with vitamin K supplementation. Other rodenticides may contain cholecalciferol which causes hypercalcemia and leads to heart and kidney problems. Newer rodenticides may contain bromethalin which causes central nervous system signs such as seizures, muscle tremors, and depression.
Insecticides* used in dogs for fleas and ticks commonly contain either organophosphates or carbamates. They can be absorbed through the skin, conjunctiva, gastrointestinal tract, and lungs. Organophosphates inhibit acetylcholinesterase irreversibly and carbamates inhibit cholinesterase reversibly. Toxicity occurs through overdosage with an appropriate product or use of an agricultural product. Signs for both include hypersalivation, vomiting, lethargy, tremors, difficulty walking, weakness, and death.
Chocolate is a common cause of poisoning in dogs. The toxic principles in chocolate are theobromine and caffeine. Baker's chocolate is the most dangerous form since it contains higher concentrations of these drugs, followed by semi-sweet, dark, and then milk chocolate. Signs include vomiting, diarrhea, tremors, difficulty walking, seizures, and heart problems.
Lead poisoning* is uncommon in dogs. Exposure to lead is from eating paint chips from lead-based paint (found in houses painted prior to 1950), and eating lead objects such as shot, fishing sinkers, or counterweights. Signs of poisoning include vomiting, diarrhea, blindness, seizures, and tremors.
Raisins and grapes are potential causes of kidney failure in dogs.
Garlic, onions, and chives are toxic to dogs. They cause the destruction of red blood cells known as Heinz body anemia, a form of hemolytic anemia. No clear quantity has been established as to the onset of the anemia.  Poisonous reactions can result from raw, cooked or dried onions, garlic, and chives, including those included in powdered or dehydrated forms. Avoid all foods that contain onions or onion variants (such as spaghetti sauce).


== Miscellaneous ==
Vestibular disease* is an uncommon condition in older dogs. Most cases are idiopathic, but it can also be caused by otitis interna, or inner ear infection, tumors, and encephalitis. Signs include nystagmus, head tilt, circling, vomiting, and falling to one side. Idiopathic vestibular disease will usually resolve in a few days to a few weeks.
Molera (hole in skull), better known as an open fontanelle, may be a sign of hydrocephalus, but is also a normal finding in toy breeds such as Chihuahua.
Anal gland problems are very common, and may include impaction, infection, or abscessation. These glands are normally emptied when the dog defecates.
Shar Pei fever is characterized by recurring fever and swelling of the hocks in Shar Peis. It can result in renal and liver failure.
Liver failure* is common. Signs include vomiting, loss of appetite, weight loss, and jaundice. Causes include bacterial or viral infection, toxic insult, cancer, copper storage diseases, or it may be idiopathic.
Dental disease* is very common. Calculus is the most obvious sign, but gingivitis progressing to periodontitis is what results in tooth loss. Treatment involves scaling and polishing of the teeth under general anesthesia and treatment of any periodontal disease. Prevention is very important and can be accomplished through the use of special diets or treats, brushing, and plaque prevention gels.
Portosystemic shunt* is a bypass of the liver by the body's circulatory system. It can be either a congenital or acquired condition.
Perineal hernia* is characterized by herniation of abdominal contents through the pelvic diaphragm, which causes swelling on one side of the anus.
Primary ciliary dyskinesia* is a dysfunction of cilia, which manifests as sperm immotility and respiratory disease. Signs include nasal discharge, recurring pneumonia, and infertility. Symptoms develop soon after birth.
Cleft lip and cleft palate are uncommon and generally cause difficulty with nursing, and, more seriously aspiration pneumonia.
Congenital diaphragmatic hernia* is uncommon, and is usually caused by trauma. Congenital diaphragmatic hernias are usually communications between the peritoneum and pericardium and are usually incidental findings.
Gingival hyperplasia is seen in brachycephalic breeds, especially Boxers. It is generally benign, although food and hair impaction is common.
Salmon poisoning disease is a fatal disease caused by infection with a rickettsia, either Neorickettsia helminthoeca or Neorickettsia elokominica. Dogs are infected by eating raw salmon from the Pacific Northwest.
Vaccine reactions are adverse events which occur following vaccination, including granuloma formation, but most commonly the term vaccine reaction is used to describe a type I hypersensitivity reaction. The most common signs are facial swelling and hives, but more rarely very serious signs such as hypotension and collapse may occur.
Systemic lupus erythematosus* (SLE) is an immune system disease characterized by the presence of antibodies to nucleic acid and/or antibodies to red blood cells, platelets, lymphocytes, clotting factors, and thyroglobulin. The disease can result in deposition of immune complexes or autoimmune disease. Immune complex deposition can cause vasculitis, meningitis, neuritis, and joint and skin disease. The most commons signs are hemolytic anemia or thrombocytopenia.
Myasthenia gravis* results from the presence of antibodies to the acetylcholine receptor. Signs include megaesophagus and muscle weakness.
Tetanus* is a disease caused by the bacteria Clostridium tetani following wound contamination. Dogs are not very susceptible to tetanus. Signs include difficulty opening the mouth and eating, contraction of the facial muscles, and rigid extension of the limbs. Dogs may also get localized tetanus, signs of which include stiffness of a limb spreading to the rest of the body.
Polydactyly* is the occurrence of extra toes, generally on the preaxial (dewclaw) side. This is more common in certain breeds, such as the Great Pyrenees.
Tracheal collapse is characterized by incomplete formation or weakening of the cartilagenous rings of the trachea. It is most common in small and toy breeds. Signs include a cough (often called a "goose honk cough" due to its sound), especially when excited.
Brachycephalic airway obstructive syndrome is a condition of brachycephalic (short-nosed) dogs, characterized by the presence of stenotic nares, elongated soft palate, narrow trachea, collapsed larynx, and everted laryngeal saccules. Signs include difficult and noisy breathing. Surgical options are available.


== See also ==
Dog health
Mastocytoma in dogs
Threadworm infections of dogs
Parasites and pathogens of wolves


== References ==

Point of View is a public artwork by Aaron T. Stephan, installed outside Salt Lake City's Salt Palace (100 S. West Temple), in the U.S. state of Utah. The work was installed in 2016, and features approximately 150 signs displaying various phrases.


== References ==

Fantasy is a 2025 drama film written and directed by Kukla (a.k.a. Katarina Rešek) in her feature debut. It stars Sarah Al Saleh, Alina Juhart, and Mina Milovanović as three friends, and explores the complexities of gender, desire, and self-discovery on meeting a transgender woman Fantasy. It is based on the same theme and characters as Kukla's 2020 short film Sisters.
The film had its world premiere in the Filmmakers of the Present section of the 78th Locarno Film Festival on 8 August 2025, where it competed for Golden Leopard – Filmmakers of the Present. It was also selected as the Slovenian entry for the Best International Feature Film at the 99th Academy Awards.


== Synopsis ==
Three tomboyish friends in their early twenties, Sina, Mihrije, and Jasna, navigate life in a Slovenian neighborhood where they clash with local boys who view them as disruptive. Their dynamic shifts with the arrival of Fantasy, a young transgender woman whose enigmatic presence gradually influences each of them. Although initially skeptical about romantic entanglements, Sina finds herself in an unexpected relationship. Jasna, seeking independence from her discontented mother, takes a job on a French cruise ship. Meanwhile, Mihrije flees to Macedonia with Fantasy to escape an arranged marriage, developing deeper feelings during their journey. Upon returning to Slovenia, the trio discovers how much they've changed, feeling emotionally distant from one another. Mihrije's final visit to Fantasy's apartment reveals she has vanished. Ultimately, each woman takes tentative steps into adulthood, forging paths that diverge from the futures they once imagined.


== Cast ==
Sarah Al Saleh as Mihrije
Alina Juhart as Fantasy
Mina Milovanović as Sina
Mia Skrbinac as Jasna


== Production ==
The project developed in 2022 at the 44th Cannes’ Résidence du Festival, held from 1 March to 15 July 2022, had production commitment from Ljubljana, Slovenia-based production company, December and co-production by North Macedonia-based Krug Film.
The film was shot for 29 days in Kruševo (North Macedonia), Trieste and Ljubljana, and wrapped on 9 December 2023.


== Release ==
Fantasy had its world premiere in the 'Filmmakers of the Present Competition' section of the 78th Locarno Film Festival on 8 August 2025, vying for the Golden Leopard – Filmmakers of the Present. It also competed for Heart of Sarajevo award in the Competition Programme - Feature Film at the 31st Sarajevo Film Festival on 17 August 2025.
On 2 October 2025, it was presented in Panorama section of 2025 Vancouver International Film Festival. It also competed in New Directors Competition at the São Paulo International Film Festival and had screening on 19 October 2025. It competed in Meet the Neighbors Competition section at the Thessaloniki International Film Festival in November 2025. In January 2026, it was presented in the Wild Roses section of the Trieste Film Festival, the section dedicated to the women directors of Central and Eastern Europe. It also ran in the Focus section at the Solothurn Film Festival on 27 January 2026. It was screened at the South East European Film Festival in LA on 4 May 2026. The film was also screened in the Regional Programme on 12 July 2026 at the Pula Film Festival.


== Reception ==
Marko Stojiljković reviewing the film for Cineuropa at Locarno Film Festival gave it positive review. Stojiljković praised Kukla's direction, screenwriting, Lazar Bogdanović's "subtle camerawork", Lukas Miheljak's "rhythmic editing", Relja Čupić's "moody electronic score" and Julij Zornik's "perfectly calibrated sound design". Stojiljković commended Kukla for getting convincing performances from non-professional actors and building on her 2020 short film Sisters, and successfully expanding her vision into a distinctive feature. Stojiljković found Fantasy, a visually and sonically immersive film. 


== Accolades ==


== See also ==
List of submissions to the 99th Academy Awards for Best International Feature Film
List of Slovenian submissions for the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website 
Fantasy at IMDb 
Fantasy at Locarno Film Festival

Thomas Maldwyn Pryce (11 June 1949 – 5 March 1977) was a British racing driver from Wales, who competed in Formula One from 1974 to 1977.
Pryce started his career in Formula One with the small Token team, making his only start for them at the 1974 Belgian Grand Prix. Shortly after winning the Formula Three support race for the 1974 Monaco Grand Prix, Pryce joined the Shadow team and scored his first points in Germany in only his fourth race. He later claimed two podium finishes, his first in Austria in 1975 and the second in Brazil a year later. He won the non-championship Race of Champions in 1975, becoming the first—and to this date, only—Welsh driver to win a Formula One race; he also became the first Welsh driver to lead a Grand Prix, as well as the first to achieve a pole position, at the 1975 British Grand Prix. Pryce was noted for his ability in wet-weather conditions.
Pryce set the fastest lap during the rain-affected practice sessions for the 1977 South African Grand Prix. During the Grand Prix, he collided at high speed with a safety marshal, Frederik Jansen van Vuuren, and both men were killed. A memorial to Pryce was unveiled in 2009 in his home town of Ruthin.


== Personal and early life ==
Pryce was born on 11 June 1949 in Ruthin, Denbighshire, Wales, to Jack and Gwyneth Pryce (née Hughes). Jack had served in the Royal Air Force as a tail-gunner on a Lancaster bomber before joining the local police force. Gwyneth was a district nurse. Pryce's older brother, David, died at the age of three leaving Tom an only child for much of the time he was growing up, although his parents did foster a young girl called Sandra for a while. Pryce, known to his friends as Mald, attended Nantglyn Primary School, Denbighshire. The family later moved to Towyn, Denbighshire, due to Jack's job.
Pryce took an interest in cars while driving a baker's van at the age of ten, before informing his parents that he wanted to be a racing driver. During an interview with Alan Henry in 1975, he stated that he had wanted to become a pilot, but thought he was not intelligent enough. Like many future Formula One drivers, Pryce had a childhood racing hero. In his case, it was Lotus's Scottish driver Jim Clark. Pryce's mother recalled that he was very upset when Clark died at the Hockenheimring in April 1968. His father noted that "he was very upset when Jochen Rindt was killed, too". After he left school at 16, Pryce's mother insisted that he take an apprenticeship as a tractor mechanic at Llandrillo Technical College, giving him "something to fall back on", as she put it, if his career as a racing driver was unsuccessful.
In 1975, Pryce married Fenella "Nella" Warwick-Smith, whom he met at a disco in Otford, Kent in 1973. Following the death of her husband, Nella went on to run an antiques store in Fulham, London with Janet Brise, the widow of Tony Brise, who died in a plane crash in 1975 with fellow racing driver, Graham Hill and later moved to France.


== Helmet design ==
Pryce's helmet design was, in comparison to later drivers', simple and restrained. His helmet was plain white all over until 1970. At that year's race at Castle Combe, his father asked Pryce to make his helmet stand out more so that he could easily identify him in a pack of cars. Pryce added five black vertical lines to his helmet, placed just above his visor. From that time, the only change to this design was the addition of a Welsh flag to the side of his helmet in 1974.


== Career ==


=== Pre–Formula One ===


==== 1969–1971: Early years ====
Pryce's first steps into motor racing came at the Mallory Park circuit in Leicestershire when he was 20. Pryce was put through his paces by Trevor Taylor, an ex-Team Lotus driver and old teammate of Pryce's childhood hero Clark. He later became a star in the Formula 5000 series. From there, Pryce went on to compete in the Daily Express Crusader Championship, a series run by Motor Racing Stables for racing school pupils using Lotus 51 Formula Ford cars. Races alternated between the Brands Hatch and Silverstone circuits; Pryce made his début at the former. "The races were £35 a time. But I sold my Mini and my parents offered all the help and encouragement I could wish for" Pryce recalled to Alan Henry.
The prize for the overall winner of the series was a Formula Ford Lola T200 worth £1,500. The series was decided at the last round, held at Silverstone, the day before the 1970 Formula One International Trophy. Pryce qualified on the third row for the race, which was held in rain. Jack Pryce remembered that his son was rubbing his hands in delight: "he always loved racing in the rain". The early part of the race was led by a driver called Chris Smith but then heavy rain started and Pryce was able to catch up with Smith and overtake him before winning by a comfortable margin. He was given his Lola by Sir Max Aitken.
Pryce took his new car to Brands Hatch, where he was allowed to house it in one of the old stables at the bottom of the paddock. Pryce soon abandoned his farming career and moved to a guest house in West Kingsdown, near the Brands Hatch circuit. Pryce continued to make a name for himself during 1971, entering a new twin-seater Sportscar category called Formula F100, which he won with what was described by motorsports author David Tremayne as "embarrassing ease". He then moved up to Formula Super Vee, driving the then-choice Royale RP9, for Team Rumsey Investments, and soon made his Formula Three début for the same manufacturer at Brands Hatch.


==== 1972–1973: Lower formulae ====

In that race at Brands Hatch, Pryce took an unfancied Royale RP11 to first place in the Formula Three support race for the 1972 Formula One Race of Champions against many established Formula Three drivers such as Roger Williamson, Jochen Mass and James Hunt. So large was Pryce's advantage at the end of the race, many of the other teams voiced an opinion that Pryce's car had run the race underweight; it turned out that the circuit's weighbridge certificate had expired and everyone's cars had been underweight. Pryce retired from the leading group in the following two rounds at Oulton Park and Zandvoort, and then during practice for the support race of the 1972 Monaco Grand Prix his car came to a stop at Casino Square after a wire had come loose. He had exited his car to correct the problem when Peter Lamplough lost control of his car and struck the Royale RP11. Pryce was knocked into a shop window and broke a leg.
Pryce was back in action two weeks after his incident in Monaco. Pryce also ran in the Formula SuperVee series, winning the series by a comfortable margin, "I won just about every race I went in for" Pryce recalled. A run with Royale's Formula Atlantic works team was also in store for Pryce during 1972, where he took pole position for the final three rounds of the championship and won the final round at Brands Hatch.
Pryce continued racing in Formula Atlantic in 1973, winning three races. Royale soon had plans to enter Formula Two, such was the Welshman's talent. The ambition to run in the Formula Two championship was planned to be financially fuelled by a Liechtenstein driver, Manfred Schurti. These plans only resulted in one of Royale's F2 cars being built before the project was scrapped and Bob King, the head of Royale, left the company.
Following an invitation to test one of his cars, Pryce found himself racing in the Formula Two series with Ron Dennis's Rondel Racing outfit. His best result for the team came at the Norisring where he was leading the race until a brake failure meant he had to give up first place to teammate Tim Schenken. At the end of 1973, Pryce won the Grovewood Award for his efforts during the year. Jack Pryce recalled that his son did not want to win the award, as he thought it was "a jinx on a driver's career".


=== Formula One ===


==== 1974: Token ====

At the age of 25, Pryce graduated to Formula One, the highest category of circuit racing defined by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA), motorsport's world governing body, joining the newly formed Token Racing team. The team was created by Tony Vlassopulos and Ken Grob after the original Token team closed down in 1973 due to a lack of financial backing which had led to the end of the previous Rondel Racing outfit. Pryce was given the seat thanks to his backing from Titan Properties, and what David Tremayne described as "evident promise". Pryce made his début for the team at the BRDC International Trophy, a non-championship Formula One event held at Silverstone, but lack of an airbox and an engine cover, along with his shortage of experience in the car, made him the slowest driver of the 16 competitors during qualifying: 26 seconds slower than James Hunt's Hesketh in pole position. The Welshman retired 15 laps into the race with a gear linkage problem. Pryce's World Championship début came at the 1974 Belgian Grand Prix, where he qualified in 20th place, three seconds slower than the fastest time set by Clay Regazzoni. Once again, he failed to finish, completing 66 laps before retiring after a collision with Jody Scheckter's Tyrrell.
Pryce was refused entry to the 1974 Monaco Formula One Grand Prix, as he was deemed "inexperienced". Tony Vlassopulos decided to prove a point and replaced normal Formula 3 driver Buzz Buzaglo, with Pryce for the supporting Formula Three race, driving for Ippokampos Racing, in a March 743, which he won by 20.8 seconds.


==== 1974–1977: Shadow ====


===== 1974 =====

Following his drive in Monaco, and a short spell in Formula Two, Pryce was signed by Shadow as replacement for Brian Redman, who had in turn replaced the late Peter Revson. Pryce made his début for the team in Holland. He qualified in 11th position, less than 0.4 seconds slower than his teammate, Jean-Pierre Jarier, who was in his second full season of Formula One competition. Pryce retired on the first lap of the race after a collision with James Hunt at the first corner broke his Shadow DN3's rear suspension. Pryce qualified third in his second Grand Prix for the team, in France, 0.32 seconds slower than Niki Lauda's pole position time but nearly half a second quicker than Jarier. Once again, Pryce's race ended at the first corner, when minor contact with Carlos Reutemann's Brabham deflected Pryce's Shadow into the path of James Hunt. The second collision between the two British drivers in as many races eliminated them both. Later in the season, Pryce received 100 bottles of champagne for finishing fastest in the practice session for the British Grand Prix at Brands Hatch. He went on to qualify on the fourth row of the starting grid.
Pryce scored the first point of his career in Germany, at the most challenging circuit on the F1 calendar at the time, the 14.2 mile Nürburgring circuit. After finishing 6th from 11th on the grid, he then qualified in 16th for the next Grand Prix in Austria, but spun off on lap 22, ending his race. He qualified in 22nd place in Italy, and finished 12 places higher. His season ended with an engine failure in Canada, and the Shadow severely off the pace at Watkins Glen in the United States. At the end of the season Pryce was equal 18th in the Drivers' Championship with veteran Graham Hill and Vittorio Brambilla.


===== 1975 =====

At the start of the 1975 season, Pryce's future was subject to much speculation. Rumour linked him with a drive at Lotus, the team run by Colin Chapman, who had been keeping an eye on Pryce's progress throughout 1973 and 1974. At the time, Lotus was experiencing financial difficulties and reports suggested that Shadow and Lotus would swap Pryce and Swede Ronnie Peterson. The trade was viewed as a good acquisition for both teams, as Pryce was considered a driver of the same ability as Peterson, but would cost Lotus less, while Peterson could attract sponsorship to the relatively new Shadow team. The deal never materialised, although Shadow team manager Alan Rees claims that it came very close to being completed.
Pryce's Shadow teammate, Jean-Pierre Jarier, out-qualified him in the early part of the 1975 season, as the French driver had the new Shadow DN5 car, while Pryce was in the older DN3. It was not until the third round, the South African Grand Prix, that Pryce was able to use a DN5. The team's fourth race of the season was the non-championship Race of Champions held at Brands Hatch. Pryce qualified on pole position and, following a poor start, passed Peterson and Jacky Ickx before closing an eight-second gap to race leader Jody Scheckter, whose engine failed while Pryce harried him, letting Pryce through to become the first Welshman to win a Formula One race. Pryce showed other signs of promise during the season, most notably in Monaco and Silverstone where he qualified on the front row of the grid, the latter being in pole position. Pryce also achieved his first World Championship podium finish, in extremely wet conditions at the Austrian Grand Prix and finished in the points four more times. The highest of those came in Germany where he finished fourth, despite the fact that while he was running second behind Carlos Reutemann fuel had been leaking into the cockpit of his DN5 during the final laps around the Nürburgring, reportedly "searing his skin and almost blinding him with fumes". The Welshman later received the Prix Rouge et Blanc Jo Siffert award, named after the Swiss Formula One driver, for this achievement.
At the end of December 1975, Pryce and Dave Richards, future head of the Prodrive motorsports engineering company, entered a Lancia Stratos in the Tour of Epynt, a rally event contested by many established rallying names. Pryce needed little persuasion to team up for the one-off event on home soil with Richards, both of whom were from Ruthin. Pryce crashed into a bridge 10 miles (16 km) into the first stage, but still competed in the afternoon stages after his car was rebuilt.


===== 1976 =====

Once the 1976 Formula One World Championship season got under way Pryce instantly added a second podium finish to his tally, at the first round in Brazil. This came at the expense of continuing teammate Jarier, who was caught out by oil on the track from James Hunt's McLaren. Both Shadows enjoyed reasonable competitiveness during the next two races at Kyalami and Long Beach. Changes in car regulations, meaning that teams had to lower their airboxes and mount the cars' rear wings further forward, along with revised Goodyear tyres, meant the Shadow DN5B lost much of its competitiveness; Pryce still achieved a second points scoring finish of the season in Britain. The new Shadow DN8 was not introduced until the twelfth round at Zandvoort, where Pryce qualified the new car in third, and finished the race only one place lower in fourth: it was the last points scoring finish of his career. The Welshman finished his last full season 12th in the Drivers' Championship with 10 points, 59 points behind World Champion James Hunt.


===== 1977 =====
Rumors that Pryce would run as Mario Andretti's teammate for the Lotus team in 1978 were strong, as it coincided with the end of his contract with Shadow. A Lotus mechanic of the era even claimed many years later that the signing of Tom Pryce for the team would have become a reality if he had not died, as Peterson was hired at the last minute after an express offer from Chapman for a succulent amount of money in exchange for being Mario Andretti's number two in replacement of Gunnar Nilsson, who was going to go to the Arrows team in 1978 to team up with Riccardo Patrese. This latter fact was confirmed by Patrese in Motorsport magazine in an interview by Simon Taylor in 2010.
Jarier left Shadow before the start of the 1977 Formula One season, for ATS, and was replaced by Italian Renzo Zorzi, who was later rated by Jackie Oliver, part of the managerial team at Shadow, as "the worst driver we [the Shadow team] ever had". The new signing brought in sponsorship from Italy, easing Shadow's financial position. Pryce started the first race of the year in Argentina in ninth place and stayed with the leading group until a gear linkage failure on the 45th lap of the 52 lap race. Following a long pit stop to fix the fault, he was not classified. Pryce qualified 12th for the second round in Brazil, but on lap 34 retired from the race, while running in second place, as the result of an engine failure.


==== Legacy ====
In 2016, in an academic paper that reported a mathematical modelling study that assessed the relative influence of driver and machine, Pryce was ranked the 28th best Formula One driver of all time.


== Death ==
Pryce began his final race weekend, the 1977 South African Grand Prix at Kyalami, by setting the fastest time in the Wednesday practice session, held in wet weather. Pryce posted a time of 1:31.57, with the eventual 1977 champion Niki Lauda one second slower. The weather dried up prior to the Thursday session, and he slipped back down the grid to fifteenth place, almost two seconds slower than James Hunt's pole position time.
Pryce made a poor start to the Grand Prix in his DN8 and by the end of the first lap was in last place. Pryce started to climb back up the field during the next couple of laps, overtaking Brett Lunger and teammate Renzo Zorzi on lap two, and Alex Ribeiro and Boy Hayje the following lap. By lap 18 Pryce had moved from 22nd to 13th place.

On lap 22, Zorzi pulled off to the left side of the main straight, just after the brow of a hill and a bridge over the track. He was having problems with his fuel metering unit, and fuel was pumping directly onto the engine, which then caught fire. Zorzi did not immediately get out of his car as he could not disconnect the oxygen pipe from his helmet.
The situation caused two marshals from the pit wall on the opposite side of the track to intervene. The first marshal to cross the track was a 25-year-old panel beater named Bill, and the second was 19-year-old Frederik "Frikkie" Jansen van Vuuren, who was carrying a 40-pound (18 kg) fire extinguisher. George Witt, the chief pit marshal for the race, said that the policy of the circuit was that in cases of fire, two marshals must attend and a further two act as back-up in case the first pair's extinguishers were not effective enough. Witt also recalled that both marshals crossed the track without prior permission. The former narrowly made it across the track, but the latter did not. As the two men started to run across the track, the cars driven by Hans-Joachim Stuck and Pryce came over the brow of a rise in the track.

Pryce was directly behind Stuck's car along the main straight. Stuck saw Jansen van Vuuren and moved to the right to avoid both marshals, missing Bill by what Tremayne calls "millimetres". From his position Pryce could not see Jansen van Vuuren and was unable to react as quickly as Stuck had done. He struck the teenage marshal at approximately 270 km/h (170 mph). Jansen van Vuuren was thrown into the air and landed a few yards in front of Zorzi's car. Badly mutilated by Pryce's car, he died instantly. The fire extinguisher he had been carrying smashed into Pryce's head, before striking the Shadow's roll hoop. The force of the impact was such that the extinguisher was thrown up and over the adjacent grandstand. It landed in the car park to the rear of the stand, where it hit a parked car and jammed its door shut.
The impact with the fire extinguisher wrenched Pryce's helmet upward sharply, killing him  instantly. Pryce's Shadow DN8, now with its driver dead at the wheel, continued at speed down the main straight towards the first corner, called Crowthorne. The car left the track to the right, scraping the metal barriers, hitting an entrance for emergency vehicles, and veering back onto the track. It then hit Jacques Laffite's Ligier, sending both Pryce and Laffite head-on into the barriers. Jansen van Vuuren's injuries were so extensive that, initially, his body was identified only after the race director had summoned all of the race marshals and he was not among them.
The eventual race winner was Austrian Niki Lauda, his first win since his near-fatal accident during the 1976 German Grand Prix. At first he announced it was the greatest victory of his career, but when told on the victory podium of Pryce's death, he said that "there was no joy after that".


=== Aftermath ===

Pryce's death was met with great grief from all those who knew him, especially his wife Nella, his parents Jack and Gwyneth and the Shadow team. His body was buried at St Bartholomew's Church in Otford, near Sevenoaks, Kent, the same church where he and Nella were married two years earlier.
Pryce's performances in a Formula One car earned him much respect amongst the F1 paddock. David Tremayne named his son after the Welshman. The Tom Pryce Award, also known as the Tom Pryce Trophy, was instigated, and is given annually to Welsh personalities who have made an outstanding contribution to motoring or transport.
During its re-design, the Anglesey Circuit in North Wales named the Tom Pryce Straight after a request from Ruthin Town Council. Eddie Knipe, a South African living in Sevenoaks, sought permission from Nella Pryce to approach the Ruthin Town Council to commemorate her late husband. Having gained her consent and that of Tom's parents, a trust was established in 2006 under the chairmanship of David Richards to create a memorial to Tom Pryce in Ruthin. Neil Dalrymple, a local artist, was commissioned by Ruthin Town Council in 2008 to design an 8-by-4-foot (2.4 by 1.2 m) plaque and in February 2009, an auction of Formula One pit passes to fund its manufacture was announced. The memorial was unveiled on 11 June 2009, on what would have been Pryce's 60th birthday.


== Complete Formula One World Championship results ==
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position; small number denotes finishing position)


=== Non-championship Formula One results ===

(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position; small number denotes finishing position)
(Races in italics indicate fastest lap)


== References ==
Notes

Footnotes

Bibliography


== Further reading ==
Tremayne, David (1991). Racers Apart: Memories of motorsport heroes. Motor Racing Publications. p. 293. ISBN 0-947981-58-6.


== External links ==

Tom Pryce memorial commission and pictures of the construction

Tropical Airplay is a chart published by Billboard magazine that ranks the top-performing songs (regardless of genre or language) on tropical radio stations in the United States, based on weekly airplay data compiled by Nielsen's Broadcast Data Systems. It is a subchart of Hot Latin Songs, which lists the best-performing Spanish-language songs in the country. In 1997, 11 songs topped the chart, in 52 issues of the magazine.
The first number one of the year was "No Quiero Na' Regala'o" by Gilberto Santa Rosa, which had been in the top spot since the issue dated December 21, 1996, and spent a total of three weeks at this position. It was succeeded by Grupo Manía's song "Linda Eh", which remained on top of the chart for four weeks. American singer Frankie Negrón released his debut album Con Amor Se Gana (1997), which was promoted by its singles "Inolvidable" (a cover version of Italian singer Laura Pausini's song) and "Hoy Me He Vuelto a Enamorar". Negrón spent 12 weeks at number one and "Inolvidable" was named the best-performing track of the year on the Tropical Airplay chart by the magazine. 
Brenda K. Starr achieved her first chart-topper with a salsa cover of Myriam Hernández's ballad "Herida". Starr had previously established herself as a freestyle artist in the 1980s and returned to the music scene as a salsa artist with Te Sigo Esperando (1997) following the commercial failure of her previous album By Heart (1991). She was the only female artist to have a number one on the Tropical Airplay chart in 1997. "Dile a Ella" by Víctor Manuelle held the top spot for the longest in 1997 at nine weeks. The final number one of the year was "Y Hubo Alguien" by Marc Anthony which spent eight weeks at number one and became the first salsa song to top the Hot Latin Songs chart.


== Chart history ==


== See also ==
1997 in Latin music


== References ==

Catherine Jérémie (1664–1744) was a French-Canadian midwife and botanist in New France.


== Early life and family ==
Catherine Jérémie was baptized in Champlain, Quebec, on September 22, 1664, to Jeanne Pelletier and trader Noël Jérémie. She was the eldest of 11 siblings; She was proceeded by Marie-Charlotte (baptized April 26, 1667), Nicolas (baptized February 1669), Francois (baptized 1671), Marie-Madeleine (born 1674), Louis (born 1676), Ignace (born October 29, 1684), Marie-Jeanne (baptized July 28, 1678), Charlotte-Judith (baptized November 23, 1705), and finally Joseph (baptized August 6, 1687).
Jérémie married Jacques Aubuchon in Champlain, Quebec, on January 28, 1681, and together they had one daughter. On November 3, 1688, Jérémie married Michel LePailleur in Batiscan, Quebec. Jérémie and LePailleur together had 10 or 11 children.
Jérémie died July 1, 1744, in Montreal, Quebec.


== Scientific career ==
In 1702 Jérémie settled in Montreal with husband Michel LePailleur where she pursued her studies and research in botany and midwifery. She was particularly interested in the medicinal practices of the Indigenous populations of Canada. She studied these medicinal plant uses and further discovered many remedies. She applied these findings to her knowledge of women's health.
Jérémie was one of the earliest botanists in Canada and the first female naturalist known to date. She was known in the French scientific world for providing French naturalists with detailed reports of the plants they collected, and she sent her collections to the Jardin des Plantes in Paris, encouraged by the French Académie des Sciences in order to collect Canada's flora and fauna. Colony intendant Gilles Hocquart noted her practices as significant in his reports to France and these collections are now preserved at the Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle in Paris. Overall, Jérémie made a large contribution to natural science in New France.
Jérémie's knowledge of herbal remedies increased her reputation and practice as a midwife, as she was able to apply these uses specifically to women's healthcare, such as abortion, pregnancy and birth. In the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, most midwives engaged in a private practice, were less costly than doctors, and stayed at their client's homes for longer periods of time while helping with household chores. Jérémie used the interventionist approach to healthcare, which contradicted the laissez-faire approach of many English scholars. She soon became known as a famed midwife and was referred to as "la magicienne de ma vie au Quebec" (the magician of my life in Quebec) by one of her clients.


== See also ==
Timeline of women in science


== References ==

The 2023 Newfoundland and Labrador Tankard, the men's provincial curling championship for Newfoundland and Labrador, was held from January 25 to 29 at the RE/MAX Centre in St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador.  The event was held in conjunction with the 2023 Newfoundland and Labrador Scotties Tournament of Hearts, the provincial women's championship.
The winning Nathan Young rink represented Newfoundland and Labrador at the 2023 Tim Hortons Brier in London, Ontario finishing seventh in Pool A with a 2–6 record.


== Teams ==
The teams are listed as follows:


== Round robin standings ==
After Draw 7


== Round robin results ==
All draws are listed in Newfoundland Time (UTC−03:30).


=== Draw 1 ===
Wednesday, January 25, 1:30 pm


=== Draw 2 ===
Wednesday, January 25, 7:00 pm


=== Draw 3 ===
Thursday, January 26, 1:30 pm


=== Draw 4 ===
Thursday, January 26, 7:00 pm


=== Draw 5 ===
Friday, January 27, 1:30 pm


=== Draw 6 ===
Friday, January 27, 7:00 pm


=== Draw 7 ===
Saturday, January 28, 9:00 am


== Tiebreaker ==
Saturday, January 28, 1:30 pm


== Playoffs ==


=== Semifinal ===
Saturday, January 28, 7:00 pm


=== Final ===
Sunday, January 29, 2:00 pm


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Basil I, nicknamed "the Macedonian" (Greek: Βασίλειος ὁ Μακεδών, romanized: Basíleios ō Makedṓn; 811 – 29 August 886), was Byzantine emperor from 867 to 886. Born to a peasant family in the theme of Macedonia, he rose to prominence in the imperial court after gaining the favour of Emperor Michael III, whose mistress he married on his emperor's orders. In 866, Michael proclaimed him co-emperor. Fearing a loss of influence, Basil orchestrated Michael's assassination the next year and installed himself as sole ruler of the empire. He was the first ruler of the Macedonian dynasty.
Despite his humble origins, Basil was an effective and respected monarch. He initiated a complete overhaul of Byzantine law, an effort continued by his successor that ultimately became the Basilika. On the foreign front, he achieved military success against the heretical Paulicians, whom he subjugated in 872. He also pursued an active policy in the west, allying with Carolingian emperor Louis II against the Arabs, which led to a new period of Byzantine domination in Italy. Upon his death in a hunting accident in 886, he was succeeded by his son Leo VI, also rumoured to have been the son of Michael III.


== From peasant to emperor ==
Basil was born to peasant parents in late 811 (or sometime in the 830s in the estimation of some scholars) at Chariopolis in the Byzantine theme of Macedonia (an administrative division corresponding to the area of Adrianople in Thrace). The theory that Basil may have been born in the 830's might better explain that the young Emperor Michael III later chose him as his favorite. His father was named Bardas/Constantine, his mother Pankalo, and his paternal grandfather Maiktes/Leo. His paternal grandmother's father was named Leo/Maiktes. His ethnic origin is unknown and has been a subject of debate.

During Basil's reign, an elaborate genealogy was produced that purported that his ancestors were not mere peasants, as everyone believed, but descendants of the Arsacid (Arshakuni) kings of Armenia, Alexander the Great and also of Constantine the Great. The Armenian historians Samuel of Ani and Stephen of Taron record that he hailed from the village of Thil in Taron. In contrast, Persian writers such as Hamza al-Isfahani, or al-Tabari, call both Basil and his mother Saqlabi, an ethnogeographic term that usually denoted the Slavs, but can also be interpreted as a generic term encompassing the inhabitants of the region between Constantinople and Bulgaria. Claims have therefore been made for an Armenian, Slavic, or indeed "Armeno-Slavonic" origin for Basil's father. The name of his mother points to a Greek origin on the maternal side. The general scholarly consensus is that Basil's father was "probably" of Armenian origin, and settled in Byzantine Thrace. His close associates and friends were mostly Armenians and, besides Greek, he might have spoken Armenian as well. Norman Tobias, the author of the only dedicated biography of Basil I in English, concluded that it is impossible to be certain what the ethnic origins of the emperor were, though Basil was definitely reliant on the support of Armenians in prominent positions within the Byzantine Empire.

One story asserts that he had spent a part of his childhood in captivity in Bulgaria, where his family had, allegedly, been carried off as captives of the Khan Krum (r. 803–814) in 813. Basil lived there until 836, when he and several others escaped to Byzantine-held territory in Thrace. Basil was ultimately lucky enough to enter the service of Theophilitzes, a relative of the Caesar Bardas (the uncle of Emperor Michael III), as a groom. While serving Theophilitzes, he visited the city of Patras, where he gained the favour of Danielis, a wealthy woman who took him into her household and endowed him with a fortune. He also earned the notice of Michael III by his abilities as a horse tamer and in winning a victory over a Bulgarian champion in a wrestling match; he soon became the Byzantine Emperor's companion, confidant, and bodyguard (parakoimomenos). Symeon Magister describes Basil as "... most outstanding in bodily form and heavy set; his eyebrows grew together, he had large eyes and a broad chest, and a rather downcast expression".

On Emperor Michael's orders, Basil divorced his wife Maria and married Eudokia Ingerina, Michael's favourite mistress, in around 865. Around the same time, Michael III offered him his sister Thekla as a mistress. Basil had an affair with her until 870, when he discovered that she was being unfaithful to him and, for this reason, he sent her back to the convent she had been immured in previously. During an expedition against the Arabs, Basil convinced Michael III that his uncle Bardas coveted the Byzantine throne, and subsequently murdered Bardas with Michael's approval on 21 April 866. Basil then became the leading personality at court and was invested in the now vacant dignity of kaisar (Caesar), before being crowned co-emperor on 26 May 866. This promotion may have included Basil's adoption by Michael III, himself a much younger man. It was commonly believed that Leo VI, Basil's successor and reputed son, was really the son of Michael. Although Basil seems to have shared this belief (and hated Leo), the subsequent promotion of Basil to caesar and then co-emperor provided the child with a legitimate and Imperial parent and secured his succession to the Byzantine throne. When Leo was born, Michael III celebrated the event with public chariot races, whilst he pointedly instructed Basil not to presume on his new position as junior emperor.

When Michael III started to favour another courtier, Basiliskianos, Basil felt that his position was being undermined. Michael threatened to invest Basiliskianos with the Imperial title and this induced Basil to pre-empt events by organizing the assassination of Michael on the night of 24 September 867. Michael and Basiliskianos were insensibly drunk following a banquet at the palace of Anthimos when Basil, with a small group of companions (including his father Bardas, brother Marinos, and cousin Ayleon), gained entry. The locks to the chamber doors had been tampered with and the chamberlain had not posted guards; both victims were then put to the sword. On Michael III's death, Basil, as an already acclaimed co-emperor, automatically became the ruling basileus.


== Reign ==
Basil I became an effective and respected monarch despite being a man with no formal education and little military or administrative experience. Moreover, he had been the boon companion of a debauched monarch and had achieved power through a series of calculated murders. That there was little political reaction to the murder of Michael III is probably due to his unpopularity with the bureaucrats of Constantinople because of his disinterest in the administrative duties of the Imperial office. Also, Michael's public displays of impiety had alienated the Byzantine populace in general. Once in power Basil soon showed that he intended to rule effectively and as early as his coronation he displayed an overt religiosity by formally dedicating his crown to Christ. He maintained a reputation for conventional piety and orthodoxy throughout his 19-year-long reign.


=== Domestic policies ===
Because of the great legislative work which Basil I undertook, he is often called the "second Justinian". Basil's laws were collected in the Basilika, consisting of sixty books, and smaller legal manuals known as the Eisagoge. Leo VI was responsible for completing these legal works. The Basilika remained the law of the Byzantine Empire down to its conquest by the Ottomans. Ironically, this codification of laws seems to have begun under the direction of the caesar Bardas who was murdered by Basil. Basil personally oversaw the construction of the Nea Ekklesia cathedral and his palatine hall the Kainourgion. His ecclesiastical policy was marked by good relations with Rome. One of his first acts was to exile the Patriarch of Constantinople, Photios, and restore his rival Ignatios, whose claims were supported by Pope Adrian II.


=== Foreign affairs ===

Emperor Basil's reign was marked by the troublesome ongoing war with the heretical Paulicians, centered on Tephrike on the upper Euphrates, who rebelled, allied with the Arabs, and raided as far as Nicaea, sacking Ephesus. Basil's general, Christopher, defeated the Paulicians in 872, and the death of their leader, Chrysocheir, led to the definite subjection of their state. Basil was the first Byzantine emperor since Constans II (r. 641–668) to pursue an active policy to restore the Empire's power in the West. Basil allied with Holy Roman Emperor Louis II (r. 850–875) against the Arabs and sent a fleet of 139 ships to clear the Adriatic Sea of their raids. With Byzantine help, Louis II captured Bari from the Arabs in 871. The city eventually became Byzantine territory in 876. However, the Byzantine position in Sicily deteriorated, and Syracuse fell to the Emirate of Sicily in 878. This was ultimately Basil's fault as he had diverted a relief fleet from Sicily to haul marble for a church instead. Although most of Sicily was lost, the general Nikephoros Phokas (the Elder) succeeded in taking Taranto and much of Calabria in 880. The successes in the Italian peninsula opened a new period of Byzantine domination there. Above all, the Byzantines were beginning to establish a strong presence in the Mediterranean Sea, and especially the Adriatic.


=== Last years and succession ===

Basil's spirits declined in 879, when his eldest and favourite son, Constantine, died. Basil now raised his youngest son, Alexander, to the rank of co-emperor. Basil disliked the bookish Leo, on occasion physically beating him; he probably suspected Leo of being the son of Michael III. In his later years, Basil's relationship with Leo was clouded by the suspicion that the latter might wish to avenge the murder of Michael III. Leo was eventually imprisoned by Basil after Theodore Santabarenos informed him of a plot against him, but the imprisonment resulted in public rioting; Basil threatened to blind Leo but was dissuaded by Patriarch Photios. Leo was eventually released after the passage of three years. Basil died on 29 August 886, from a fever contracted after a serious hunting accident when his belt was caught in the antlers of a deer, and he was allegedly dragged 25 kilometres (16 mi) through the woods. He was saved by an attendant who cut him loose with a knife, but he suspected the attendant of trying to assassinate him and had the man executed shortly before he himself died. One of the first acts of Leo VI as ruling emperor was to rebury, with great ceremony, the remains of Michael III in the Imperial Mausoleum within the Church of the Holy Apostles in Constantinople. This did much to confirm in public opinion the view that Leo considered himself to have been Michael's son.


== Family ==

Some modern controversy and historical ambiguity surrounds Basil I's personal life, especially given a lack of contemporaneous sources. One question that has emerged in modern scholarship is whether or not Basil was involved in same-sex relationships and if such relationships played a role in his unlikely rise to power. Historian Shaun Fitzroy Tougher cites a history written by George the Monk that uses the Greek word pothos to describe Basil's relationship with Michael, a word which had historically been used in some Greek Christian sources to describe the desire between a wife and a husband. However, within the law code, the Basilika, inaugurated by Basil I, the illegal nature of male homosexuality and its, largely theoretical, capital punishment were retained in full.
Aspects of the family relationships of Basil I are likewise uncertain and open to a variety of interpretations.
Therefore, the information given below should not be treated as comprehensive or definite:

By his first wife Maria, Basil I had several children, including:
Bardas.
Anastasia, who married the general Christopher.
Constantine (c. 860 – 3 September 879), crowned emperor in January 868. According to George Alexandrovič Ostrogorsky, Constantine was betrothed to Ermengard of Provence, daughter of Louis II, Holy Roman Emperor, and Engelberga in 869. The marital contract was broken in 871 when relations between Basil and Louis broke down.
By Eudokia Ingerina, Basil I had the following children:
Leo VI, who succeeded as Byzantine emperor and may actually have been a son of Michael III.
Stephen I, Patriarch of Constantinople, who may also actually have been a son of Michael III.
Alexander, who succeeded as Byzantine emperor in 912.
Anna Porphyrogenita, a nun at the convent of St. Euphemia in Petrion.
Helena Porphyrogenita, a nun at the convent of St. Euphemia in Petrion.
Maria Porphyrogenita, a mother of nuns at the convent of St. Euphemia in Petrion.
Leo VI's son Constantine VII wrote a biography of his grandfather, the Vita Basilii, around 950.


== In popular culture ==
Harry Turtledove, a historian noted for his speculative fiction based on alternative history, has written several series set in a place called Videssos, which is a thinly disguised Byzantine Empire. The Tale of Krispos trilogy – Krispos Rising (1991), Krispos of Videssos (1991), and Krispos the Emperor (1994) – are fictionalized retellings of the rise of Basil.
Stephen Lawhead's book, Byzantium (1996), uses the succession of Basil I as seed for the conspiracy which occupies most of the novel.
Robert Greene's book The 48 Laws of Power (1998), features Basil I's rise to power, by way of his interactions and later his manipulations of Michael III, as an example of a "transgression of the law" for Law #2, "Never put too much trust in friends, learn how to use enemies".


== See also ==

List of Byzantine emperors


== Notes ==


== References ==


=== Citations ===


== Primary sources ==
Recent years have seen the first translations into English of a number of primary sources about Basil I and his times.

Featherstone, Jeffrey Michael and Signes-Codoñer, Juan (translators). Chronographiae quae Theophanis Continuati nomine fertur Libri I-IV (Chronicle of Theophanes Continuatus Books I-IV, comprising the reigns of Leo V the Armenian to Michael III), Berlin, Boston: De Gruyter, 2015.
Kaldellis, A. (trans.). On the reigns of the emperors (the history of Joseph Genesios), Canberra: Australian Association for Byzantine Studies; Byzantina Australiensia 11, 1998.
Ševčenko, Ihor (trans.). Chronographiae quae Theophanis Continuati nomine fertur Liber quo Vita Basilii Imperatoris amplectitur (Chronicle of Theophanes Continuatus comprising the Life of Basil I), Berlin: De Gruyter, 2011.
Wahlgren, Staffan (translator, writer of introduction and commentary). The Chronicle of the Logothete, Liverpool University Press; Translated Texts for Byzantinists, vol. 7, 2019.
Wortley, John (trans.). A synopsis of Byzantine history, 811-1057 (the history of John Scylitzes, active 1081), Cambridge University Press, 2010.


== Secondary sources ==


== Further reading ==
Bury, John Bagnell (1912). A History of the Eastern Roman Empire from the Fall of Irene to the Accession of Basil I (A.D. 802–867). Macmillan and Company.
Mango, Cyril (1973). "Eudocia Ingerina, the Normans, and the Macedonian Dynasty". Zbornik Radova Vizantološkog Instituta. 14–15: 17–27. doi:10.30965/9783657760374_019. S2CID 240457579.
Živković, Tibor (2013). "On the Baptism of the Serbs and Croats in the Time of Basil I (867–886)" (PDF). Studia Slavica et Balcanica Petropolitana (1): 33–53.


== Footnotes ==


== External links ==

Basil I – World History Encyclopedia

Vallecilla is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Benito Ruíz de Salazar Vallecilla (died 1651), Spanish colonial governor
Gustavo Vallecilla (born 1999), Ecuadorian footballer
Nancy Vallecilla (born 1957), Ecuadorian hurdler and heptathlete

Pumphouse is the seventh full-length studio album released under the name of the British heavy metal band Tokyo Blade. The album was actually recorded by the band Pumphouse, which was the outfit founded in the early 90s by Alan Marsh, Tokyo Blade original vocalist, after his band Mr. Ice had folded. The British label Zoom Club released the collection of songs in 1998 under the name Tokyo Blade, after the members of Pumphouse Marsh, Riggs and Angel had joined Andy Boulton and John Wiggins to record Burning Down Paradise in 1994 and to tour in Europe as Tokyo Blade.


== Track listing ==
"Like You Not-Not" – 4:29
"The Ultimate High" – 5:42
"Gerald's Game" – 5:10
"Pay the Man" – 3:37
"Wrong Chair" – 4:48
"It's Only Money" – 3:59
"Character Assassination" – 4:49
"S.O.S." – 4:08
"All Work No Play" – 3:41
"SNAFU" – 3:34
"Having a Bad Day" – 3:37


== Personnel ==


=== Pumphouse ===
Alan Marsh – vocals
Jez Lee – guitar
Ian "Attila" Marshall – keyboards
Colin Riggs – bass
Marc Angel – drums


== References ==

Chhattisgarh is central state of the union of India. It is known for its cultural heritage.


== List of folktales ==
The following is a list of folktales of the state of Chhattisgarh first published by author Theophil H. Twente in 1938:

The Frog and the Lizard
The Two Who Were Brothers Indeed
How the Gond Saved His Field of Gram
Bhimsen and Fever
The King Who Learned From a Cock
The Wicked Mother-In-Law
How a Wedding Song Saved Property
The Wonderful Ox
The Three Drunkards
Satwanti
The Woman on a Fig Tree
The Girl Who Understood the Language of Birds and Beasts
The Brahman's Daughter Who Married a Crane
The Eight Foolish Weavers
Wealth and Wisdom
The Fox, the Tortoise and the Serpent
The Two Mendicants
The Bracelet-Sellers
The Fox and the Elephant
Three Men In A Boat
The Girl and the Goat
The Mouse With Three Wives
The Gond Who Sold Firewood
The Greedy Man and the Liar
The Secret of Knowledge
Two Blind Men and Their Faith
Below are other folktales attested in other sources from Chhattisgarh:

Mohna de gori kayina
Dhola Maru
Fox and Mahadev
Sada Brij Saaranga
Vikramāditya as Bikai
Vikramāditya with Manwa-Patwa
Satvantin
Thag and Big
Kalidas and Vidyamati
Bhalnin
Khirmit
Belva Kayina
Paidhna Paidhneen
Vikramāditya Brings Amrit
Jheek Jheek
Two Sadhus visiting a family and a couple
Lal Bujakkad
Raja Bhoj
Raja Nal and Mata Damyanti
Loric Chanda
Dasmat Kayina
Old Woman and Prawn


== References ==

Bibliography

Twente, Theophil H. (1938). Folk Tales of Chhattisgarh India. North Tonawanda, NY: The Bodoni Press.
Elwin, Verrier (1953). "Ballads and Tales". Folk Songs Of Chhattisgarh. Oxford University Press. pp. 247–403.


== External links ==
Chhattisgarhi folk tales Ahiman Kaina

Continental Playlist is the  debut extended play by Nigerian singer-songwriter King Perryy, released on 15 February 2023 by Continental Music under exclusive licence to Engage, a division of MAD solutions INC. with guest features from Tekno, 1da Banton, Victony, and Ria Sean. The EP received generally favorable reviews from critics and peaked at number 10 on the Sweden Apple Music chart and 46 on the France iTunes chart.


== Background and release ==
Perryy's music career gained momentum in 2018 with the release of his breakout single 'Man on Duty' featuring Timaya, Building on his newfound popularity affiliating with Dem Mama records owned by Timaya, In December 2019 he released his follow up single 'Work N Grind' and 'Murder' featuring Teni. On April 28, 2021, he released his debut studio album titled "Citizen Of The World" which features Phyno, Mayorkun, Kizz Daniel, Timaya, PsychoYP and Oxlade
On 15 February 2023 He released  Continental Playlist in 2023.


== Composition ==
The 7-track EP features a diverse range of songs. The first track, "On God" serving as the lead single, this track opens the project with a heartfelt message. King Perryy reflects on his journey, acknowledging the central role of God in his life and career. On Turkey Nla (Remix) featuring Tekno the song might share the same title as one of Wande Coal's songs, yet the message and style are different and the removal of Fela Kuti sample on the original where the last part of the song explore Amapiano with the skittering log drum serving as the accompaniment to the drums, kick, and baseline.  On "Tight Condition" He shared a A punchy duet alongside singer Victony. "Oh No" features rolling drums, kicks, and baseline. Lyrically, it finds Perryy reflecting his transactional relationship  on a girl. On ”Flamingo" featuring Ria Sean, this bouncy, R&B-tinged track mixes Dancehall vibes with a Nigerian bounce and Hawaiian guitar melodies while No Stress" is a  blend of Dancehall and Highlife, this song borrows elements from 20th-century palm wine music. Repurposing lyrics from King Perryy's earlier hit "Yawa", "Denge" closing the EP, this dance-centric track features 1da Banton, who also serves as its producer. The rhythm draws inspiration from Timaya's “Sanko” and Runtown's “Body Riddim.” 
Sparse lyrics allow the energetic production to shine, with Banton's solemn verse adding a contrasting depth.


== Critical reception ==

Adeayo Adebiyi of Pulse Nigeria rated the extended play 6.8/10, praising his ability to infuse multiple sounds, in his words he said that King Perryy blends his signature Dancehall style with mainstream elements, aiming to expand his reach while preserving his unique identity in the evolving Nigerian music scene.
Emmanuel Daraloye of Afrocritic rated the project 6/10 saying that the production on Continental Playlist is exceptional, blending diverse styles and cultures, reflecting an artist attuned to global trends. However, the collaborations often overshadow King Perryy's performances, a balance that could be refined in future projects.


== Track listing ==


== Release history ==


== References ==

Skylla and Charybdis is a 2014 composition for piano quartet by Graham Waterhouse, played in four movements without a break. The title refers to Scylla and Charybdis, two sea monsters from Greek mythology. In performances in German-speaking countries, it has also appeared in English surroundings as Between Scylla and Charybdis.
Skylla und Charybdis is the title of an album of music for piano and strings by Waterhouse including this piece, released by Farao Classics in 2020.


== History ==
The work, composed in 2011, was premiered at the Gasteig in Munich on 2 November 2014, by pianist Katharina Sellheim, violinist David Frühwirth, violist Konstantin Sellheim and the composer as the cellist. It was used for the title of a concert at the same location on 11 March 2018, played by the same performers, and for a concert in Gilching in preparation of an album of the same name.
 It was played in England in 2020, again providing the concert title, in 2020, combined with quartets by Beethoven and Dvořák, at the composer's former school, Highgate School. The quartet was notably played, by the same performers as in the premiere, as part of GW60, a concert on 5 November 2022 at the Allerheiligen-Hofkirche in Munich to celebrate the composer's 60th birthday.


== Music ==
The music is structured in four movements which are played without a break:

According to the composer, the opening movement relates to the currents in the narrow strait of the sea. The second section pictures "threatening and aggressive characters". The third movement is based on overlapping melodies, mirroring each other as in tribal chant. The fourth section depicts a battle, musically, between the piano and the strings.
A reviewer noted in Das Orchester that the four movements, alternating slow and fast, had contrasting elements such as tender explorations of harmonic context ("sanfte Erkundungen harmonischer Kontexte") and moments full of rhythmic energy ("Momente voller rhythmischer Energie"), and imaginative sonorities ("mit großer Klangfantasie").


== Album ==
Skylla und Charybdis is the title of an album of some of the composer's works for piano and strings, including this piece. It was released in 2020 by Farao Classics. A reviewer quotes the composer explaining: "Choosing between Scylla and Charybdis is a metaphor which means »opting for the lesser of two evils«. The composer of today steers a similarly precarious path, facing questions such as: embracing or renouncing tradition; use of tonal centres or atonality; adhering to pre-conceived musical forms or use of narrative forms; allowing one instrument to dominate, or integrating them. In my mind the vision of the perilous and deadly Scylla and Charybdis mirrors these and other dilemmas facing composers, where possible danger may lie in store for those siding too closely with one extreme or the other."


=== Track listing ===
The album contains six compositions:

Rhapsodie Macabre, piano and string quartet
Bei Nacht, Op. 50, piano trio
Trilogy, piano quintet
Bells of Beyond, piano trio
Kolomyjka, from Polish Suite, Op. 3, piano quartet
Skylla und Charybdis, piano quartet
The music, recorded in 2019 in Planegg, was performed by Katharina Sellheim (piano), David Frühwirth and Namiko Fuse (violin), Konstantin Sellheim (viola) and the composer as the cellist, which included all performers of the world premiere of Skylla und Charydis. The CD was introduced by a livestream concert at the Munich Gasteig on 6 March 2021, played by the same musicians. The program, which had been designed for the Beethoven year 2020 but was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, had Kolomyjka, Skylla und Charybdis, Bells of Beyond and Rhapsodie Macabre from the album, and additionally the German premiere of Variations for Cello Solo, and the world premiere of 11 Neue Bagatellen nach Op. 119, arrangements of the Eleven Bagatelles by Beethoven, originally for piano, for string quartet.


== References ==


== External links ==
Graham Waterhouse: Skylla und Charybdis (2021) on YouTube
Getting to know him properly: Skylla und Charybdis, a disc devoted to the chamber music of cellist and composer Graham Waterhouse  planethugill.com 19 March 2021
Graham Waterhouse "GW60" Festkonzert aus der Allerheiligen-Hofkirche, München, 5. Nov. 2022 on YouTube

Clascal is an object-oriented programming language (and associated  discontinued compiler) developed in 1983 by the Personal Office Systems (POS) division (later renamed The Lisa Division, then later The 32-Bit Systems Division) of  Apple Computer. Clascal was used to program applications for the Lisa Office System, the operating environment of the Lisa.
Developed as an extension of Lisa Pascal, which in turn harked back to the UCSD Pascal model originally implemented on the Apple II, the language was strongly influenced by the Xerox Palo Alto Research Center (PARC) release of Smalltalk-80, v1 (which had been formerly ported to the Lisa), and by Modula.  According to Larry Tesler, Clascal was developed as a replacement for Apple's version of Smalltalk, which was "too slow" and because the experience offered by the Smalltalk syntax was too unfamiliar for most people.
Clascal was the basis for Object Pascal on the Apple Macintosh in 1985. With the demise of the Lisa in 1986, Pascal and Object Pascal continued to be used in the Macintosh Programmer's Workshop for systems and application development for several more years, until it was finally supplanted by the languages C and C++. The MacApp application framework was based on Toolkit originally written in Clascal.
Object Pascal, in turn, served as the basis for Borland's Delphi.


== References ==

Keohan, Susan (July 1984). An Introduction to Clascal (PDF). Lisa Division, Apple Computer.

Triollo is a municipality located in the Montaña Palentina of province of Palencia, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 86 inhabitants. The municipality's most famous landmark is Curavacas (2524 m).


== References ==

Alistair Rutherford, known more widely as The Running Viola, is a British athlete, musician and television personality. He is a current double Guinness World Record holder for the fastest marathon and the fastest half marathon dressed as a musical instrument.


== Career ==
Originally from Liverpool, Rutherford studied as a violist at the Royal Birmingham Conservatoire, graduating in 2017. The concept of The Running Viola came to him as an idea to raise money for arco, a charity providing musical education for children in South Africa in conjunction with Birmingham City University and the Morris Isaacson Centre for Music. He has since become the manager of the project.


== References ==

Lactarius crassus, commonly known as the gasteroid milk cap, is a North American secotioid fungus species in the family Russulaceae. It was formerly known as part of the Arcangeliella genus, but recent research suggests that the contents of genus Arcangeliella should probably be transferred into the genus Lactarius. It was described from a collection made in Stanislaus National Forest, Northern California.
The buff cap is up to 8 centimetres (3+1⁄4 in) wide and the stipe is up to 2.5 cm long. The spore mass is collected in the rudimentary gills, which are pinkish to yellowish; a spore print is unobtainable. The flesh has an acrid taste, implying it to be inedible.


== References ==


== External links ==

Lactarius crassus  in Index Fungorum.
Lactarius crassus  in MycoBank.  (with detailed description from original publication)

María Argelia Vizcaíno is a freelance writer of articles and reports that have been published in several languages. As well as publishing the books "Guanabacoa la Bella" and "Son y sazón" (Son and flavor) (Cuban), her works are mostly research and cover cultural issues. They are recommended by professionals, thanks to their seriousness. She is also a historian, journalist, freelance consultant, graphic designer and television producer and screenwriter. She also serves as public relations and event promoter.
Vizcaíno has founded various cultural groups in order to try to preserve the Cuban traditions and has won several literary competitions. It has been recognized and awarded by any prestigious institutions. She has focused especially in Hispanic publications.


== Biography ==
María Argelia Vizcaíno was born in 1955 in Guanabacoa, Havana, Cuba. She went into exile in the United States in 1980 fleeing the Castro regime, but never forgot the country of his birth, so most of his writings are dedicated to Cuba. Since January 1992, Vizcaíno  wrote Estampas de Cuba (Cuba Stamps) in West West Palm Beach, which were published in numerous newspapers and magazines in many U.S. cities, such as "La Voz Libre" in Los Angeles (California), "Libre, Miami " (Free, Miami ) or "Estado Jardín" (Garden State) in Union City, New Jersey. Just as in foreign countries through the cyber world as is the case Peru, Ecuador, Mexico, Netherlands, Italy (translated into Italian) or Brazil translated into Portuguese), among others.
In 2001 she directed the program "La Hora Cubana", with the cooperation of Mr. José Luis Pérez transmitting each week for the radio station 1190 AM, Palm Beach County.
Since 2008 she publishes a weekly online blog, "Faranduleando con María Argelia".
That year she and Yamilé Arencibia were the creators, writers and producers of the TV show  "Cuba: Inolvidable"  (Cuba: Unforgettable) in  Mi Pueblo,  TV channel;
At the same time worked between June 2008 and January 2009 on "Pellízcame que estoy Soñando", broadcast on Channel 41, America teve, as the pre-interviewer.


== Written ==
In 2006 she published her first book entitled "Guanabacoa, la bella" (Guanabacoa the Beautiful), and March 12,  Art Association and Cuban Culture of Palm Beach County was Indeed his presentation at the Don Ramón de Dixie Hwy (Don Ramon Restaurant of Dixie Hwy), in the city of
West Palm Beach, becoming the first Hispanic woman in Palm Beach that published a book of history, officially classified as a historian.
On November 20, 2010 was invited by the Editorial Voces de Hoy (Voices Today) for
participate in the Miami Book Fair International, with her new book Son y sazón (Son and then) (Cuban).
The book was officially launched on Saturday, December 18, 2010 at the headquarters
Municipalities of Cuba in Exile of the city of Miami, with the participation of
artistic and intellectual figures who collaborate with it to make its
Favorite Recipe Cuban cuisine and biography.
Vizcaíno was also invited by Maria Ninoska, Perez Castellon and Mirta Iglesias
to participate in her book "Cuba Mía – Hablan Tus Hijos" (Cuba Mia – Speak Your Children), which includes testimonies of more than two hundred people like Celia Cruz, Willy Chirino or Emilio Estefan,
She has shared his work in the publishing of newspapers and magazines of
graphic designer from the same also for cultural programs, concerts
music, and the covers of his own.


== Activism ==
She organized along with Elaine Fandino the first mass protest takes place in West Palm Beach against the arbitrary policy implemented by President Bill Clinton retaining the Cuban boat people indefinitely in Guantanamo Bay, and performed alongside Amy Lopezand and a small group of family and friends, the first protest against the kidnapping of Elian force that generated after a huge demonstration which included the union of the Latin American brothers. In addition, Vizcaíno has volunteered for the League Against Cancer of Delegation of West Palm Beach.


== References ==


== External links ==
http://www.mariaargeliavizcaino.com/ (in Spanish)

Reaver or Reavers may refer to:


== Fictional characters ==
Reavers (comics), cyborgs in Marvel Comics
Reaver (Firefly), in the 2002 TV series, and the related movie Serenity
villains in the 2017 film Logan
a group of monster hunters in Andrzej Sapkowski's 1992 short story collection Sword of Destiny, part of The Witcher series
an enemy in The Runelords book series by David Farland
a pirate lord in the video games Fable II (2008) and Fable III (2010)
a class specialization in the video game Dark Age of Camelot
a class specialization in the video game Dragon Age: Inquisition
a unit in the video game StarCraft
a bandit faction in the add on for The Elder Scrolls III: Bloodmoon and The Elder Scrolls V: Dragonbornin the video games Morrowind and Skyrim respectively
an enemy type in the video game God of War 2018
the New Conglomerate air superiority fighter in the video game PlanetSide 2


== Other uses ==
The Reavers, a 2007 comic novel by George MacDonald Fraser
Reaver, a tool used to exploit a vulnerability in Wi-Fi Protected Setup (2012)
Reaver, an associate of the Reaver Mercenary Company in the mod DiscoveryGC of Freelancer (2003)


== See also ==
All pages with titles beginning with Reaver
All pages with titles containing Reaver
The Reivers (disambiguation)
Border reivers (disambiguation)

Area code 807 is a telephone area code in the North American Numbering Plan (NANP) for the Canadian province of Ontario. The numbering plan area (NPA), comprising only Northwestern Ontario, was created in early 1962 in an area code split of NPA 705. The main reason for the split was not central office prefix exhaustion, but routing efficiency for calls from Western Canada to northwestern Ontario.
Major communities served by  area code 807 include Thunder Bay, Kenora, Dryden, Fort Frances, Rainy River, Marathon, Manitouwadge, and Greenstone. The area is split between the Central and Eastern Time Zones.
The incumbent local exchange carriers in the numbering plan area are Tbaytel, Bell Canada, and Bell Aliant's Dryden Municipal Telephone Service.
The numbering plan area is one of the least populated in Canada. Fewer than 40% of its telephone numbers are in use and the Canadian Numbering Administration Consortium (CNAC) estimates that it will not be exhausted for many decades. In the turn of the 3rd millennium, as area code 705 neared exhaustion, the CNAC briefly considered "erasing" the 807-705 boundary and turning 807 into an overlay complex for all of Ontario north and west of the Golden Horseshoe. However, the potential for confusion advised against the implementation. As a result, 807 is the only area code in Ontario without an overlay, and hence the last one that used to allow seven-digit dialing. (The only other Canadian area code without an overlay is 867, used in the three northern territories.)
In August 2022, the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission ordered a transition to the three-digit code 988 for suicide prevention resources. Although 988 is not in use as a local exchange prefix in area code 807, the CRTC mandated ten-digit local calling by 31 May 2023. The CRTC's decision followed the decision of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission to adopt 988 for the U.S. National Suicide Prevention Lifeline.


== Communities and central office prefixes ==
Premium services: 1-807-976
Armstrong: 583
Atikokan: 207, 290, 324, 590, 594, 596, 597, 598, 770, 780, 781
Balmertown: - See Red Lake
Barwick: 487
Beardmore: 875
Bearskin Lake: 363
Big Trout Lake: 537
Caramat: 872
Cat Lake: 347
Clearwater Bay: 200, 733
Cloud Bay: 964
Cochenour: 662
Deer Lake: 775
Devlin: 486, 704, 907, 908
Dorion: 857
Dryden: 212, 215, 216, 217, 220, 221, 223, 265, 322, 323, 995
Eagle River: 755
Ear Falls: 222
Emo: 482
Flanders: 947
Fort Frances: 208, 270, 271, 272, 274, 275, 276, 277, 703, 788, 789, 798, 861, 994
Fort Hope: 242
Fort Severn: 478
Geraldton: 209, 790, 806, 853, 854, 855, 858, 863
Grassy Narrows: 925
Gull Bay First Nation: 982
Hemlo: 238
Hornepayne: 379, 868
Hudson: 582, 702, 808, 809
Ignace: 747, 934, 936
Jellicoe: 879
Kaministiquia: 933
Kasabonika: 535
Kenora: 219, 255, 388, 389, 390, 391, 392, 393, 394, 395, 396, 397, 407, 444, 456, 463, 464, 465, 466, 467, 468, 512, 513, 514, 547, 548, 549, 842
Kingfisher Lake: 532
Lac La Croix First Nation: 485
Lansdowne House: 479
Longlac: 810, 876
Macdiarmid: 885
Madsen: - See Red Lake
Manitouwadge: 378, 826, 827
Marathon: 213, 228, 229, 230, 231, 232, 292, 371, 500, 787
McKenzie Island: - See Red Lake
McKenzie Portage: 201, 543
Morson: 488
Muskrat Dam: 471
Minaki: 224
Mine Centre: 599
Nakina: 329
Nestor Falls: 484
Nibinamik First Nation: (Summer Beaver) 593
Nicikousemenecaning First Nation: (Bears Passage) 481
Nipigon: 236, 293, 372, 712, 713, 880, 887, 888, 889
Ogoki: 349
Oxdrift: 203, 937
Pass Lake: 977
Perrault Falls: 205, 529
Pickle Lake: 928
Pikangikum: 773
Poplar Hill: 772
Rainy River: 360, 852
Raith: 448
Red Rock: 294, 886
Red Lake: 237, 335, 726, 727, 728, 729, 735, 749
Redditt: 225
Sachigo Lake First Nation: 595
Sandy Lake: 771, 774, 776
Sapawe: 929
Savant Lake: 584
Schreiber: 373, 824, 825
Shebandowan: 926
Sioux Lookout: 214, 233, 239, 240, 374, 737, 738
Sioux Narrows: 226
Starratt Olsen: - See Red Lake
Stratton: 483
Terrace Bay: 296, 375, 821, 823, 825
Thunder Bay: 234, 235, 251, 252, 285, 286, 317, 333, 343, 344, 345, 346, 355, 356, 357, 358, 472, 473, 474, 475, 476, 577, 619, 620, 621, 622, 623, 624, 625, 626, 627, 628, 629, 630, 631, 632, 633, 683, 684, 695, 696, 697, 698, 699, 700, 701, 706, 707, 708, 709, 766, 767, 768, 777, 867, 935, 939, 957, 983, 999
Upsala: 985, 986
Vermilion Bay: 206, 227
Wabaseemoong Independent Nations: (Whitedog) 927
Wabigoon First Nation: 938, 943
Weagamow First Nation: 469
Webequie First Nation: 353
White River: 297, 822
Wunnumin Lake First Nation: 442


== See also ==
List of Ontario area codes
List of North American Numbering Plan area codes


== References ==


== External links ==
CNA exchange list for area +1-807
Telecom archives

Anjneri Dam, is an earthfill dam on Panzara River near Sakri in Nashik district of state of Maharashtra in India.


== Specifications ==
The height of the dam above lowest foundation is 32.3 m (106 ft) while the length is 3,137 m (10,292 ft). The volume content is 4,326 km3 (1,038 cu mi) and gross storage capacity is 107,790.00 km3 (25,860.20 cu mi).


== Purpose ==
Irrigation


== See also ==
Dams in Maharashtra
List of reservoirs and dams in India


== References ==

Muhammad ibn Ali al-Khalanji or Ibrahim al-Khaliji or Muhammad ibn al-Khalij (Egyptian Arabic: محمد بن الخليج; possibly d. 905 AD) was one of the senior commanders of the Tulunid dynasty, who rebelled against the Abbasid Caliphate after the fall of the Tulunid emirate.


== Early life ==
He was an Egyptian officer born in the Bay of Fustat and that's where the name "ibn al-Khalji" come from.
Ibn al-Khalij was one of the junior officers in a section of the Egyptian Tulunid army headed by Commander Safi al-Rumi, and there is not sufficient information about his upbringing or activity at that time.


== Restoration of Independence ==
After the fall of the Tulunid dynasty and the entry of the Abbasid armies into Egypt, the Abbasids committed crimes against humanity against Egyptians, whether soldiers or civilians. The historian Ibn Taghribirdi says about that incident: “They attacked the homes of the people, plundered them, took their money, violated their harems, took the virgins, and did to the Egyptians what they would not do to the infidels.”When the Abbasids first entered Egypt, they disbanded the Egyptian army and captured all the remaining officers and soldiers who remained from the last battle to defend the capital at that time, al-Qata'i, and sent them in batches to Baghdad. In one of these batches, there was an Egyptian officer named Mahammad bin al-Khalij or Mahammad bin Ali al-Khalanji.
On the way to Baghdad, the officer, Mahammad ibn al-Khalij, conspires with the captured officers, specifically with the Egyptian officer, Shafi’ al-Lulu’i. Thousands of Egyptian soldiers are liberated and attack the Abbasid soldiers. They are freed from captivity and return to Egypt.
On the way to the Egyptian army liberating Egypt, they entered the city of Ramla in Palestine and defeated the Abbasid army there, whose leader was Wasif bin Sawartkin the Younger. There in Ramla, Emir Mahammad bin al-Khalij ordered the proclamation in the minbars (pulpits) that Egypt had become independent again and that the state of Banu Tulun had returned. After that, the Egyptian army moved under the leadership of Ibn al-Khalij, and at Gaza they were met by the Abbasid army stationed in Egypt The Egyptian army won a landslide victory, then moved towards Arish and defeated the Abbasid garrison there, then to Farma and defeated the Abbasids there.
After that, the Abbasid governor of Egypt, Isa al-Nushari, prepared a very large army and met the Egyptian army at Bilbeis in Sharqia. There the Egyptians won another decisive victory, and the road to the Egyptian capital, Fustat, was opened. As for the Abbasid governor al-Nushari, who heard of the defeat of the Abbasid army, he fled from Fustat with the remains of his commanders.
After that, the victorious Egyptian army, led by Ibn al-Khalij, entered the city of Fustat. The Egyptian people received the army with ululations and celebrations and prayed for Ibn al-Khalij from the pulpits of the mosques after the Abbasid Caliph and Ibrahim bin Khumarawayh (the last Tulunid prince captured in Baghdad).


== Ruling Egypt ==
Ibn al-Khalij worked to calm things down and eliminate the chaos in Egypt. Dr. Wafa Mahammad Ali says in his book “Pages from the History of the Abbasids صفحات من تاريخ العباسيين” that Ibn al-Khalij's entry into Fustat restored hope that the Tulunid state would soon return again, and the Egyptians were very happy with great joy due to the intensity of their love for the dynasty and the glory days of Egypt and its independence during their reign.
When Ibn al-Khalij entered Fustat, the Egyptians decorated themselves and the streets with saffron, and the barbers came and washed and shaved the hair of Ibn al-Khalij's horse.
Ibn al-Khalij settled in the city of Fustat after he was confident that his rule was stable in Fustat and the Delta. Ibn al-Khalij ordered the necessity of the official return of the Egyptian army and the opening of the door to volunteering for all Egyptians. People came to him from all over Egypt to volunteer for his army, to the point that the Egyptian army under his rule became fifty thousand, which was a large number at the time.
After that, al-Khalanji still wanted to get rid of the Abbasid presence as quickly as possible, so he ordered a commander named Khafif al-Nubi to eliminate the remnants of the Abbasids in Egypt. Indeed, the Abbasids fled from the first time they heard of the Egyptian army's movement from Fustat, and they were forced to flee to Alexandria, then to the village of Turuja in Beheira, and there the Abbasids set a trap for Commander Khafif. Khafif who fell into the trap was forced to withdraw to Fustat. The remnants of the Abbasids fled to Upper Egypt, led by the former governor of Egypt, Isa al-Nushari.


== Fall ==
At that time, the Abbasid Caliphate sent land and sea forces to support al-Nushari, by land under the leadership of Abu al-Az Khalifa bin Mubarak al-Sulami, and by sea under the leadership of Damian of Tarsus. Thus, the situation became dangerous for Ibn al-Khalanji in front of the Abbasid Caliphate's army and fleet coming from the north, and the army of Isa al-Nushari coming from the south in Upper Egypt.
But Ibn al-Khalanji was not shaken for a moment and was determined to fight the Abbasids until his last breath, so he went out to meet the army that came from outside at Arish. The Egyptian army, led by Ibn al-Khalanji, was victorious in the Battle of al-Arish in the year 293 AH. In this battle, a large number of Abbasid soldiers were captured. After that, Ibn al-Khalij found another Abbasid army coming by land under the command of Fatik al-Mutaddi by land, and Damian's forces by sea.
After that, Ibn al-Khalij found another Abbasid army coming by land under the command of Fatik al-Mu'tadidi by land, and Damian's forces by sea. Indeed, Ibn al-Khalanji defeated Fatik and his army more than once, but unfortunately, the last time, Ibn al-Khalanji was defeated at Beni Suef after valiant resistance.
After that, Ibn al-Khalanji was forced to withdraw to Fustat, and at that time the Abbasid fleet entered under the leadership of Damian, and al-Khalanji saw that he was beginning to be effectively defeated in the war, and his position was worsened by the worsening conditions in Egypt due to the large number of wars, to the point of rising prices.
In the end, the Abbasids entered Fustat by land and sea, and Ibn al-Khalanji was forced, with regret, to hide in the house of a foreign man named Trik, but this man reported him to the Abbasids, so Mahammad Ibn al-Khalij was arrested and sent to Baghdad, along with his closest followers, after he ruled Egypt for nearly a year, specifically seven months and twenty-two days. There, he and his companions were tortured in Baghdad, and the Abbasid Caliph ordered them to be slandered over camels, then he ordered his killing, in order to thus end this temporarily successful attempt to restore the Tulunid state, which cost Ibn al-Khalanji the lives of him and many Egyptians.


== References ==


== Sources ==

The Tampa Spartans are the athletic teams that represent the University of Tampa, located in Tampa, Florida, in NCAA Division II intercollegiate sports. The Spartans compete as members of the Sunshine State Conference for all sports besides beach volleyball and track and field, which compete as independents. Tampa has been a member of the conference since 1981.


== Varsity teams ==
Tampa sponsors 20 varsity teams, 8 for men and 12 for women: 


=== Former sports ===
Football
Men's tennis
Water skiing
Men's wrestling


== National championships ==
Spartan varsity teams have won 19 NCAA Division II National Titles as of December 2022, which is seventh-most among current Division II teams. The titles won are as follows: eight in baseball (1992, 1993, 1998, 2006, 2007, 2013, 2015 and 2019), three in men's soccer (1981, 1994 and 2001), two in golf (1987 and 1988), four in women's volleyball (2006, 2014, 2018, and 2021), one in women's soccer (2007), and one in men's lacrosse (2022). They also won a beach volleyball title in the AVCA in 2019 and 2021, for a total of 21 national titles. UT athletes have won 35 individual and relay NCAA championships.


=== Team championships ===


== Rivalries ==


=== St. Petersburg College ===
UT's first athletic rival was St. Petersburg College. UT even adopted the Spartan as its mascot in the 1930s because SPC were known as the Trojans at the time (though they have since changed to the Titans). As SPC is a junior college, the schools rarely (if ever) meet nowadays.


=== Florida Southern ===
The Spartans main rival is the nearby Sunshine State Conference foe Florida Southern College Moccasins. The rivalry is known best for its baseball games, with both teams regularly among the best in NCAA Division II. The Spartans and Mocs have a combined 19 baseball national championships, with Tampa winning 10 and FSC winning 9. No other team in Division II has more than 3 baseball titles.


=== Rowdies Cup ===

Each August, the Spartans men's soccer team faces their crosstown rivals, the Division I University of South Florida Bulls, in an NCAA preseason match which celebrates the Tampa Bay Area's rich soccer history. In addition to holding the Rowdies Cup trophy for the next 12 months, the winning side also gets to hoist the actual 1975 Soccer Bowl trophy that was won by the original Tampa Bay Rowdies and is housed at USF's Corbett Soccer Stadium. As of the 2022 edition, USF holds a 25–11–3 edge in the all-time series. The match was previously contested as the Mayor's Cup and dates back to 1972.


== Football ==

UT fielded a men's football team from 1933 to 1974. The "Tampa U" Spartans first played at Plant Field near the school's campus from 1933 to 1936, then played across the street at Phillips Field for three decades, then became Tampa Stadium's first home team when they moved to the brand-new venue in 1967. The move to Tampa Stadium coincided with the program's greatest success. The Spartans beat the cross-state rival Miami Hurricanes in 1970, moved up to NCAA Division I in 1971, and defeated the Hurricanes again in 1972. Several UT players from this era went on to play in the NFL, and the Spartans won the 1972 Tangerine Bowl.
However, rising expenses resulted in the football program operating at a loss and required the school to subsidize it with several hundred thousand dollars per year. When the NFL awarded Tampa an expansion team (the future Tampa Bay Buccaneers) in 1974, the university's financial committee predicted that local support for Spartan football would decrease and recommended that the program be folded before the 1975 season. On February 12, 1975, the University of Tampa's board of directors voted to drop the sport immediately.


== Other sports ==
In addition to varsity sports, UT fields competitive junior varsity baseball and men's lacrosse teams that play a full schedule against area colleges and visiting northern schools and it also fields a crew team that competes in crew events around the nation.


== Hall of fame ==
The University of Tampa Athletic Hall of Fame includes former MLB players Lou Piniella and Tino Martinez, former NFL players Freddie Solomon of the San Francisco 49ers, and John Matuszak of the Oakland Raiders.


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

The crested quail-dove (Geotrygon versicolor) is a species of bird in the family Columbidae. It is endemic to Jamaica.


== Taxonomy and systematics ==
At one time the crested quail-dove was the sole member of genus Geotrygon. Most of what are now the other species in the genus were previously in genus Oreopeleia, which was merged into Geotrygon. The crested quail-dove is monotypic.


== Description ==
Male crested quail-doves are 27 to 31 cm (11 to 12 in) long; females are 27 to 30 cm (11 to 12 in). They weigh about 225 g (7.9 oz). Males have a black forehead and a drab brown crown. The nape is gray and has elongated feathers producing the eponymous crest. The back and sides of the neck are metallic bronze or bronze-green. The face is mostly gray with a broad reddish buff malar stripe. The gray continues to the belly; the belly and flanks are chestnut. The upper back and wing coverts are iridescent reddish purple, the mid-back bluish purple, and the lower back and tail greenish black with purple iridescence. The eye is red, surrounded by bare gray skin. Many females look the same as the male, but sometimes they are paler overall and browner on the neck and belly. Juveniles are duller than the adults and most feathers show rust-colored edges.


== Distribution and habitat ==
The crested quail-dove is endemic to Jamaica. It is concentrated in the Blue and John Crow Mountains, the Mount Diablo area, and the Cockpit Country. It inhabits mid-level and montane forest in those areas, at elevations as low as 100 m (330 ft) in Cockpit Country and as high as 1,800 m (5,900 ft) elsewhere. It shuns the lowland, dry forest, and cultivated woodlands.


== Behavior ==


=== Feeding ===
The crested quail-dove forages in leaf litter on the forest floor for seeds, fallen fruit, and probably invertebrates.


=== Breeding ===
The crested quail-dove's breeding season spans from March to June. It places its nest of twigs near the ground in vegetation or sometimes on the ground. The clutch size is two.


=== Vocalization ===

The crested quail-dove's advertising call is "a short phrase of usually two cooing notes repeated at intervals...'whuuOh..whuuw'."


== Status ==
The IUCN has assessed the crested quail-dove as Near Threatened. Its population is thought to be declining as its habitat is replaced by agriculture and human development. "Since this is a forest species, its survival will depend on the preservation of forests."


== References ==

Llandyfriog is a community in Ceredigion, Wales. It includes the Adpar part of Newcastle Emlyn and the villages, Bangor Teifi, Trebedw, Bryndioddef-isaf, Glyncaled, Berthyfedwen, Pont Ceri and Llanfair Orllwyn. In 2011, the population of the community was 1835 with 54.7% able to speak Welsh.
Gerard H. L. Fitzwilliams M.D., Ch.B., F.R.C.S., (1882–1968), was a British physician who worked in Hong Kong and a spy in Russia at the end of WWI; he was born in the village.


== See also ==
Llandyfriog transmitting station


== References ==

Professional Manager is a magazine published in London, the United Kingdom.
It is the journal of the Chartered Management Institute. It is published by Think Publishing. In pursuit of its overarching goal to help managers get the best from people, it showcases innovations in management theory and encourages readers to rethink their approaches and challenge received wisdom. Senior managers and leaders are interviewed in its pages. Recent cover stars include Ann Summers chief executive, former cabinet secretary Gus O'Donnell, and charity boss, Cherie Blair. Its Winter 2016 edition featured an image of Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website Archived 2 August 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Managers.org.uk
Abc.org.uk

The South African type XM tender was a steam locomotive tender.
Ten Type XM tenders entered service in 1913, as tenders to the Class 4A 4-8-2 Mountain type steam locomotives which were acquired by the South African Railways in that year.


== Manufacturer ==
Type XM tenders were built by the North British Locomotive Company in 1913.
The original Class 4 Mountain type locomotive was designed as a heavy mixed traffic locomotive by H.M. Beatty, the last Chief Locomotive Superintendent of the Cape Government Railways (CGR), at the Salt River shops. Soon after the South African Railways (SAR) locomotive renumbering project was implemented in 1912, an order was placed with North British for a further ten locomotives of this type. They were delivered late in 1913 and were designated Class 4A. The Type XM entered service as tenders to these engines.


== Characteristics ==
The Type XM tender had a coal capacity of 8 long tons (8.1 tonnes), a water capacity of 4,000 imperial gallons (18,200 litres) and a maximum axle loading of 11 long tons 18 hundredweight (12,090 kilograms).


== Locomotive ==
In the SAR years, tenders were numbered for the engines they were delivered with. In most cases, an oval number plate, bearing the engine number and often also the tender type, would be attached to the rear end of the tender. Only the ten Class 4A locomotives were delivered new with Type XM tenders, numbered in the SAR number range from 1551 to 1560.


== Classification letters ==
Since many tender types are interchangeable between different locomotive classes and types, a tender classification system was adopted by the SAR. The first letter of the tender type indicates the classes of engines to which it could be coupled. The "X_" tenders could be used with the locomotive classes as shown.

CGR Mountain, SAR Class 4.
SAR Class 4A.
SAR Class 5.
CGR 6th Class of 1897, SAR Class 6B.
Oranje-Vrijstaat Gouwerment-Spoorwegen  6th Class L3, SAR Class 6E.
CGR 6th Class of 1901 (Neilson, Reid), SAR Class 6H.
CGR 6th Class of 1902, SAR Class 6J.
CGR 8th Class of 1902, SAR Class 8.
Imperial Military Railways 8th Class, SAR Class 8A.
Central South African Railways Class 8-L2, SAR Class 8B.
Central South African Railways Class 8-L3, SAR Class 8C.
CGR 8th Class 4-8-0 of 1903, SAR Class 8D.
CGR 8th Class Experimental, SAR Class 8E.
CGR 8th Class 4-8-0 of 1904, SAR Class 8F.
CGR 8th Class 2-8-0 of 1903, SAR Class 8Y.
CGR 8th Class 2-8-0 of 1904, SAR Class 8Z.
Central South African Railways Class 9, SAR Class 9.
Central South African Railways Class 10, SAR Class 10.
Central South African Railways Class 10-2 Saturated, SAR Class 10A.
Central South African Railways Class 10-2 Superheated. SAR Class 10B.
Central South African Railways Class 10-C, SAR Class 10C.
Central South African Railways Class 11, SAR Class 11.
CGR 9th Class of 1903, SAR Class Experimental 4.
CGR 9th Class of 1906, SAR Class Experimental 5.
CGR 10th Class, SAR Class Experimental 6.
SAR Class ME.
Central South African Railways Mallet Superheated, SAR Class MF.
The second letter indicates the tender's water capacity. The "_M" tenders had a capacity of 4,000 imperial gallons (18,200 litres; 4,800 US gallons).
A number, when added after the letter code, usually indicates differences between similar tender types, such as function, wheelbase or coal bunker capacity.


== Modification ==
Pictures of most of these locomotives in service show them with a modified tender with built-up sides to the coal bunker to increase the coal capacity. Early versions of the built-up coal bunker sides were in the form of a slatted open-top cage, made of rectangular steel rods. Later versions were constructed of sheet-metal.


== Illustration ==


== References ==

Polar code may refer to:

International Code for Ships Operating in Polar Waters, an international code of safety for ships operating in polar waters
Polar code (coding theory), a capacity-achieving error-correcting code

The Confederation of Ethiopian Labor Unions (CELU) was an umbrella organization that represented a number of labor unions and employee self-help associations in Ethiopia. The Derg, the military junta which ruled Ethiopia at the time, banned the organization and replaced it with the All-Ethiopian Trade Union 8 January 1977.


== History ==
Although the 1955 constitution guaranteed the right to form workers' associations, it was not until 1962 that the Ethiopian government issued the Labor the Relations Decree, which authorized trade unions. The next year, the imperial authorities recognized the CELU, which at the beginning represented twenty-two industrial labor groups. By 1973 the Confederation had 167 affiliates with approximately 80,000 members, which represented only about 30 percent of all eligible workers. The CELU drew its membership from not only the railway workers, but included workers at the Addis Ababa Fiber Mills, Indo-Ethiopian Textiles, Wonji Sugar Plantation, Ethiopian Airlines and General Ethiopian Transport (also known as the Anbassa Bus Company). The Ottaways note that the formation of a national labor organization, when only 27,000 people were employed in the manufacturing sector "was one of the paradoxes of Ethiopian politics at the time." They assert that the formation of CELU "can best be explained in terms of the country's foreign relations. A long time adherent to the International Labour Organization's charter, Emperor Haile Selassie apparently found it increasingly difficult not to respect it in practice, particularly at a time when he was trying to establish himself as a central figure in independent Africa."
However, during the 1960s the CELU failed to exert a serious challenge to the economic status quo for a number of reasons. One was that most of the membership were "white collar workers in such organizations as banks, insurance companies and airlines" who had little in common with their industrial counterparts. As a result, the CELU "did not seriously attempt before the revolution to establish a minimum wage." Other were flaws in the organization, which Edward Keller lists as including "corruption, embezzlement, election fraud, ethnic and regional discrimination, and insufficient finances. Seleshi Sisaye indicates that less than 40 percent of CELU's regular members paid dues. Annual revenues from dues averaged less than US$3,000. This forced CELU to rely on contributions from such international labor organizations as the International Confederation of Free Trade Unions, the All-African Labor Congress, and the International Labour Organization to finance its operations." Further, when the CELU had attempted to flex its power in two general strikes in 1964 and 1970, both times it had failed to secure the necessary widespread support. Despite these problems, the Ottaways note that when the Ethiopian Revolution erupted, "as the largest organization representing any of the new social groups and classes, it was a potential force to be reckoned with." Rene Lefort observes that the Conferation "wanted to take advantage of the opportunity to increase the power of their organization. They launched a vast recruitment campaign (in two weeks the number of trade-union members rose by 40% to reach 120,000, according to CELU)".
The CELU's role in the revolution came in March 1974. The Confederation presented to Prime Minister Endelkachew Makonnen a list of 16 demands, and warned that if the government did not satisfy these demands, they would call a general strike on 7 March; most of these demands specifically concerned labor issues, and only five addressed broader economic or political topics. The Endelkachew government delayed in responding to this list until the day before the general strike would occur, and then simply stated that each point would be answered in three to six months' time. "To its surprise, the general strike began the very next day," write the Ottaways. "With 85,000 to 100,000 workers participating, the country's main cities, particularly Addis Ababa, were paralyzed. But the CELU had no funds to sustain an unlimited strike, though they had promised one, and workers had no savings to fall back upon. By the third day, many were back on their jobs. The strike lasted long enough to force the Endelkachew government to sign an agreement, but not long enough to extract significant concessions." Despite the lack of a decisive victory, this general strike inspired a series of wildcat strikes over the following weeks by the public employees of the different government bodies. CELU also increased its membership in the months following the general strike by a third, although the Ottaways argue that this "shows how great was its past failure to fully organize the working class.
Up to this time, the CELU was dominated by leaders like CELU President Beyene Solomon, who had been trained by American labor unions, saw the organization in purely economic terms and denied any intent to make it into a political force. But as the revolution progressed, these leaders were pushed aside by more radical members in the annual meeting in September 1974. Two factions vied for control, according to Rene Lefort: a much smaller one, led by Alem Abdi, which came to align itself with the Derg; and the majority faction, led by Marqos Hagos. Four days after the deposition of Emperor Haile Selassie, on 16 September the CELU issued a communique condemning the Derg and demanding a civilian government, which led to the top three leaders of the CELU being arrested 24 September. Lacking the direction of a relatively moderate leadership, by May 1975 the CELU was under the control of one faction which viciously opposed the Derg along Marxist lines. The Derg ordered the CELU headquarters closed and the organization reorganized on 19 May, but eventually backed down and allowed the headquarters to be reopened in the face of worker unrest.
By the time of the general congress in Addis Ababa that September, the political makeover of the CELU was complete. "The socialist, even Maoist, language of its resolutions was unmistakable," note the Ottaways. "American-trained leaders had been replaced by more radical ones who embraced a far different ideology and concept of unionism. but, as would become apparent later, the new leadership was far ahead of, and cut off from, the bulk of the confederation's own rank and file." According to Marxist theory, for the Ethiopian Revolution to be successful a vanguard party needed to be formed; the CELU, along with a number of civilian groups, opposed the Derg having control over the creation of this vanguard party. On 25 September, an Ethiopian Airlines employee was caught distributing CELU literature amongst airport workers, leading to a battle between workers and police which left four people dead and 22 wounded. The CELU leadership called for a general strike and went underground; the Derg placed the capital city under martial law on 30 September, and over the following month more than 1,500 civilians were arrested. The failure of the CELU to mount an effective protest destroyed its national organization, although individual unions survived, and a number of its leaders, including Marqos Hagos, joined the growing Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Party, which was becoming the primary opposition to the Derg—and which became the principal target of the Red Terror.


== See also ==
Trade unions in Ethiopia


== Notes ==

Yukuben, also known as Fete or Uhumghikgi (Uhum), is a Plateau language of Nigeria. There are a thousand speakers across the border in Cameroon, where the name Uhumghikgi is preferred. It is a local trade language.
Its genetic classification is discussed in Prischnegg (2021).


== References ==

The Macau Football Association Development (Chinese: 澳門發展隊) is a Macanese football team which currently competes in the Liga de Elite. The club is run by the Macau Football Association and only fields under-23 players.
In 2018, Development participated in the 2018 Chinese Champions League though by league rules, they were not permitted to gain promotion.


== See also ==
Sports in Macau


== Notes ==

Franco Indovina (1932 – 5 May 1972) was an Italian film director and screenwriter. In 1959, he was assistant to Michelangelo Antonioni on the set of L'Avventura. He directed six films between 1965 and 1971.
He died when Alitalia Flight 112 crashed on approach to Palermo. His 1967 film Lo scatenato was shown as part of a retrospective on Italian comedy at the 67th Venice International Film Festival.
The actress Lorenza Indovina, born in 1966, is his daughter.


== Filmography ==
Menage all'italiana (1965)
I tre volti (1965)
Lo scatenato (1967)
Le plus vieux métier du monde (1967)
Giochi particolari (1970)
Tre nel mille (1971)


== References ==


== External links ==
Franco Indovina at IMDb

Kamakshipalya is a neighbourhood located in the western part of the city of Bangalore. Located along the Magadi Road, it is bound by Basaveshwaranagar, Vijayanagar and Nagarbhavi. The Outer Ring Road lies to the west of Kamakshipalya.
Kamakshipalya features in the list of ten traffic "black spots" of Bangalore compiled by the city traffic police, with the Nagarbhavi Ring Road–Magadi Road–Sumanahalli Flyover (Outer Ring Road) stretch witnessing large number of traffic accidents and deaths.


== References ==


== External links ==

TEDxAmsterdam is an independent TEDx-licensed event, held annually in Amsterdam, the Netherlands since 2009. The event was founded by Dutch tech-entrepreneur Jim Stolze.


== Past events and speakers ==


=== 2009 — Breakthrough ===
The first edition was held in 2009, with the theme "Breakthrough". In 2010, the official book published for this event won gold at the European Design Awards in 2010.


=== 2014 — Somewhere in Time ===
The sixth edition was held in 2014 with the theme "Somewhere in Time".
Speakers included:

Kris Berry


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Fabian Fucan (不干斎, Fukansai; c. 1565–1621) was a Japanese writer who, in his youth, converted from Zen Buddhism to Christianity and back. He wrote tracts at first advocating and later criticizing Christianity in comparison to the other religions of Japan.


== Early life ==
Although little is known about Fabian's life before his conversion to Christianity, he is known to have hailed from the Hokuriku region. Sometime in his youth, he would join a Zen Buddhist monastery and given the name Eshun (恵俊). Fabian would convert to Christianity in 1583.


== Christianity ==
Fabian became an Irmão (Portuguese for "brother") in the Society of Jesus in 1586. During his time with the Jesuits, he made significant contributions to the production of Christian devotionals and assisted members of the Society in their study of the Japanese language. In 1592, Fabian wrote an abridged edition of the Japanese epic The Tale of the Heike in Latin script which was used as a language and history textbook by the missionaries. He also translated portions of Aesop's Fables into Japanese.
The Myōtei Dialogues, one of Fabian's two well-known pieces of writing, was a work of Christian apologetics, framed as a dialogue between the fictional Lady Myōshu and Yūtei. In the work, Fabian critiqued Buddhism, Shinto and Confucianism. He was known as a great public debater, said to embarrass his Buddhist opponents in the many debates he partook in. However, many details regarding his membership in the Society are unknown, as there are limited writings about Fabian prior to his debate with Neo-Confucianist Hayashi Dōshun.


== Apostasy and Deus Destroyed ==
Although Fabian's debate with Dōshun, which centered around the rationalization of Christian beliefs according to early modern Japanese views of the world, ended with each side feeling more confident of his beliefs, Fabian shortly thereafter left the Society of Jesus and briefly vanished from public view around 1608. He reappeared in 1620, having renounced Christianity.
Fabian's apostasy may be attributable to his belief that the Portuguese Jesuits routinely treated their Japanese counterparts as their inferiors. In 1620, Fabian wrote Ha Daiusu, a treatise against Christianity. The work is considered one of the earliest rebuttals of Christian criticism aimed towards Japanese religions that would later be used as a model for future anti-Christian treatises. One such possible text influenced by Fabian's Ha Daiusu was a tract penned by Suzuki Shosan titled Ha Kirishitain (Christianity Destroyed). The text was used throughout the Kyushu region to help preach against and eliminate Christianity from the area, especially in the aftermath of the Shimabara Rebellion.


== Works ==
The Myōtei Dialogues (1605)
Ha Daiusu (1620)


== References ==

Bonagota piosana is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is known from Venezuela.
The wingspan is 16 millimetres (0.63 in) (holotype, male).


== Etymology ==
The species name refers to the type-locality, Quebrada de los Píos.


== References ==


== External links ==

Emmanuel Bove (20 April 1898 – 19 July 1945) was a French writer, who also published under the pseudonyms of Pierre Dugast and Jean Vallois.


== Life and career ==
Emmanuel Bove was born Emmanuel Bobovnikoff on 20 April 1898 in Paris to a Jewish father who migrated from Ukraine and a Luxembourgish mother. He studied at the École alsacienne in Paris and the Collège Calvin in Geneva. At the age of 14, he decided to become a novelist. In 1915, he was sent to boarding school in England, where he completed his education. Returning to Paris in 1916, he found himself in a precarious situation.
In 1921, he married Suzanne Vallois and moved to the suburbs of Vienna. There he began his writing career, publishing numerous popular novels under the pseudonym Jean Vallois. He returned to Paris in 1922 and worked as a journalist. His work came to the attention of Colette, who helped him publish his first novel under his own name, Mes amis (My Friends) in 1924. The novel became a success and he consistently published until the Second World War, winning the prix Figuière in 1928.
In 1940, he was mobilized as a laborer and hoped to be able to flee to London. He refused to publish any works during the Occupation. He managed to escape to Algiers in 1942, where he wrote his three final novels: le Piège, Départ dans la nuit and Non-lieu.
He returned to Paris in poor health from diseases caught during his Algerian exile. He died in Paris on July 19, 1945, from Cachexia and heart failure.


== Works ==

Mes amis, novel 1924
Le Crime d'une nuit, novella 1926
Armand, novel 1927
Bécon-les-Bruyères, novel, 1927
La Coalition, novel 1927
La Mort de Dinah, novel 1928
Coeurs et Visages, novel 1928
L'Amour de Pierre Neuhart, novel 1928
Une illusion, novella 1928/1929
Monsieur Thorpe (Les deux masques), 1930
Journal – écrit en hiver, novel 1931
Un Raskolnikoff, novella 1932
Un célibataire, novel 1932
Le Meurtre de Suzy Pommier, crime novel 1933
Le Beau-fils, novel 1934
Le Pressentiment, 1935 (adapted into the film Premonition in 2006)
Adieu Fombonne, novel 1937
La Dernière Nuit, novel 1939
Le Piège, novel 1945
Départ dans la nuit, novel 1945
Non-lieu, novel 1946
Mémoires d'un homme singulier,  1987


== Works available in English ==
My Friends, trans. Janet Louth; Manchester: Carcanet, 1986. ISBN 0856356433
Armand, trans. Janet Louth; Manchester; New York, NY : Carcanet, 1987. ISBN 0856356395
Winter's Journal, trans. Nathalie Favre-Gilly; Evanston, Ill. : Marlboro Press/Northwestern, 1998. ISBN 0810160463
The Murder of Suzy Pommier, trans. Warre B. Wells. Boston : Little, Brown, 1934.
The Stepson, trans. Nathalie Favre-Gilly; Marlboro, Vt. : Marlboro Press, 1991. ISBN 1568970048
Quicksand, trans. Dominic Di Bernardi; Marlboro, Vt. : Marlboro Press, 1993. ISBN 0910395691
Night Departure; and No Place, trans. Carol Volk; New York : Four Walls Eight Windows, 1995. ISBN 0941423913
A Singular Man, trans. Dominic Di Bernardi; Marlobor, Vt. : Marlboro Press, 1993. ISBN 0910395942
A Raskolnikoff, trans. Mitchell Abidor; Red Dust, 2015. ISBN 9780873761086
Henri Duchemin and His Shadows, trans. Alyson Waters; New York Review of Books Classics, 2015. ISBN 9781590178324


== References ==


== External links ==

Website devoted to Bove (in French)

Thomas Southwell may refer to:

Thomas Southwell (priest) (fl. 1420s–1440s), Canon of Windsor
Thomas Southwell (died 1568), English landowner and courtier
Thomas Southwell (died 1643), English landowner
Thomas Southwell (Jesuit), pseudonym of Thomas Bacon (1592–1637), English-born Jesuit priest, teacher, and theologian
Sir Thomas Southwell, 1st Baronet (died 1680), Anglo-Irish politician
Thomas Southwell, 1st Baron Southwell (1665–1720), Irish MP for Limerick County 1695–1713 and 1715–1717, Commissioner of the Revenue
Thomas Southwell, 2nd Baron Southwell (1698–1766), his son, Irish MP for Limerick County 1717–1720
Thomas Southwell, 1st Viscount Southwell (1721–1788), his son, Irish MP for Enniscorthy and Limerick County 1761–1766
Thomas Southwell, 2nd Viscount Southwell (1742–1796), his son, Irish MP for Limerick County 1767–1780
Thomas Southwell, 3rd Viscount Southwell (1777–1860), his son, Irish peer
Thomas Southwell, 4th Viscount Southwell (1836–1878), his nephew, Irish Lord Lieutenant of Leitrim
Thomas Southwell (1813–1881), pioneer of the Australian Capital Territory, see Weetangera, Australian Capital Territory
Thomas Southwell (zoologist) (1879–1962), British zoologist

Syarikat Perumahan Negara Berhad (National Housing Company Berhad; SPNB) is a national housing development company owned by the Malaysian Ministry of Finance Incorporated and has been established since 1997. SPNB has been under the purview of the Ministry of Housing and Local Government (KPKT) as of 3 August 2018.


== History ==
1997:

21 August 1997 - Inaugural of SPNB under Ministry of Finance (MOF).
2001:

SPNB was appointed as implementation agent for the rehabilitation of abandoned projects by Ministry of Urban Wellbeing, Housing and Local Government (KPKT). In 2012, SPNB successfully rehabilated 14,951 units of abandoned houses across the nation.
USL was formed (51% owned by SPNB), a joint venture company between SPNB and Armed Forces Fund Board (LTAT). USL is a design and built contractor whom undertook the construction of 6,550 units of army quarters in Klang Valley which were fully completed in 2008.
2002:

SPNB introduced Skim Rumah Keluarga Nelayan Terengganu. This program was designed to assist lower income earners especially fishermen to build house on their own land. Government subsidized 1/3 of the house price to ensure the price is within affordability.
The program was then changed to Rumah Mesra Rakyat (RMR - People Friendly Homes). SPNB has completed more than 40,000 RMR since then.
2004:

Agensi Pengurusan Bencana Negara - NADMA (formerly known as Majlis Keselamatan Negara) appointed SPNB as an implementation agent to provide homes for flood and tsunami victims in Kedah, Penang dan Acheh.
2005:

Program Rumah Mesra Rakyat was expanded to Sabah and Sarawak.
2008:

NADMA appointed SPNB once again to develop houses for the flood victims in Johor, Pahang, Kelantan and Sabah.
2009:

Received an endorsement from SIRIM QAS International Sdn. Bhd. for the implementation of the Quality Management System which complies with ISO 9001: 2008 - Quality Management Systems.
2012:

New design was introduced using IBS (Integrated Building System) and IBS Hybrid System.
Introduced RMR Online System for online application system.
2014:

Rumah Idaman Rakyat was introduced.
SPNB underwent business transformation process whereby new subsidiaries were established meanwhile the existing subsidiaries were strengthened:

SPNB Aspirasi Sdn. Bhd.
SPNB Idaman Sdn. Bhd.
SPNB Mesra Sdn. Bhd.
SPNB Edar Sdn. Bhd.
SPNB Dana Sdn. Bhd.
USL Sdn. Bhd.


== References ==

University football may refer to American football, association football (soccer) or Canadian football played at universities in various countries, including:

British Universities American Football League, American football at universities in the United Kingdom
BUCS Football League, association football at universities in the United Kingdom
U Sports football, the highest level of amateur play of Canadian football at universities in Canada


== See also ==
College football (disambiguation)
College soccer

Indalencio Pascoal Froilano de Mello (17 May 1887 – 9 January 1955) was a Portuguese Indian microbiologist, medical scientist, professor, author and an independent MP in the Portuguese parliament. During his scientific career, Mello was responsible for the discovery of thousands of protozoa, parasites and microbes which today bear the Latin names given by him, followed by his own surname. He served as mayor of Nova Goa from 1938 to 1945. During his tenure as an MP from 1945 to 1949, he represented the constituency of Portuguese India, namely its overseas provinces of Goa, Daman and Diu in the National Assembly at Lisbon.


== Early life ==
Indalencio Pascoal Froilano de Mello was born in Benaulim, Salcette concelho to Goan Catholic parents. He was the eldest son of the lawyer Constâncio Francisco de Mello, and Delfina Rodrigues. His maternal grandfather Dr. Raimundo Venâncio Rodrigues had been the mayor of Coimbra, member of the Cortes Gerais in Portugal and one of the first directors of Goa Medical College (then known as the Escola Medico–Cirurgica de Goa). De Mello's patrilineal ancestors were Catholics of Brahmin origin from Salcette.
Froilano de Mello's father died when he was twelve years old, which adversely affected the family's fortunes and brought about difficult times for the entire family. The rental income generated from the family properties managed by the caretaker was insufficient to meet the family's needs and consequently, the young Froilano had to work while he studied. He graduated in Panjim as a medical doctor, and later repeated the course at Porto, Portugal. In 1910, he returned to Goa with an additional diploma in Tropical medicine of the University of Lisbon.


== Academic and scientific career ==

Mello's academic career got a start in 1910, at the age of 23, when he was appointed as a professor at the prestigious Goa Medical College. From 1913 to 1914, he served as an assistant professor at the University of Sorbonne in Paris, and was a visiting professor at the University of Porto in 1921. Mello was promoted to the post of director of the Goa Medical College's Bacteriological institute, a small shed in Campal which would serve as the center of his scientific research from 1914 to 1945. His achievements in microbiology and parasitology made the institute world-famous largely because he ensured that all his works were simultaneously published in English, Portuguese and French. Mello would later go on to become the college's dean.
During the same period, he also served as Chief of Public Health for Portuguese India. He undertook a postgraduate course in parasitology in Kaiser Willhelm Institute fuer Biologie, Berlin, and at the Max Planck Institute, Potsdam, Germany from 1922 to 1923. In 1922, at the age of 35, Mello became a Colonel in the Portuguese Army Medical Corps, achieving the highest rank in the medical military hierarchy of that time, exclusively through merits in the medical campaigns on Public Health which he carried out in Goa, Daman, Diu, and in Angola. Mello was the head of a Portuguese delegation to the World Leprosy Conference in Cuba and is known to have attended at least 40 World Conferences, including the All India Sanitary Conference in Lucknow (1914) and the Third Entomological Meeting in Lucknow (1914) where, at the invitation of the Governor-General of India, he lectured on medical mycology. His researches in tropical medicine brought him international fame and recognition as a world-renowned expert on the subject. Mello published more than 200 research papers on bacteriology in Portuguese, French and English journals. He founded the following medical journals in Goa, Boletim Geral de Medicina, Arquivos Indo-Portugueses de Medicina e Historia Natural, and Arquivos da Escola Medico–Cirurgica de Nova Goa. His work in French entitled, A la veille du Centenaire (On the eve of the Centenary) elaborated in great detail the contributions of Goa Medical College during the first hundred years of its establishment. Separate from his medical career, Mello also authored a book in 1946 on the Bengali poet, Rabindranath Tagore entitled O Cantico da Vida na Poesia Tagoreana (The song of life in the poetry of Tagore).
Mello was a member of the Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal; the Indian Academy of Sciences; Societie de Pathologie Exotique and Societie de Biologie de Paris in Paris; Sociedade de Ciencias Medicas, Sociedade de Etnologia & Antropologia and Sociedade de Geografia in Lisbon. He was the recipient of medals of honour from Queen Wilhelmina of the Netherlands in 1938, Pope Pius XII on the occasion of the canonisation of St. John de Brito in 1947, President Ramón Grau of Cuba in 1949, and from President Eurico Gaspar Dutra of Brazil in 1950. He also held the following Portuguese honours: Grande Official da Ordem de Aviz, Comendador da Ordem de São Tiago and Comendador da Ordem de Benemerencia.


== Medical campaigns ==
Mello worked passionately to eradicate tuberculosis in Goa and malaria from Velha Goa. His efforts towards this end, led to the establishment of two important institutions, namely the first leprosarium in Asia at Macasẚna in Salcette in 1934, today known as Leprosaria Froilano de Mello and Dispensario Virgem Peregrina at St. Inez, Panjim. He also established the TB sanitarium in Margao in 1928 and opened a ward for those suffering from leprosy in Daman. In 1926, Mello with the help of one of his pupils, Dr. Luís Bras de Sa, carefully mapped the site of Old Goa and recognised more than 4,800 wells in the area, which were breeding grounds of anopheles mosquitoes. This led to the closure of these wells, and in turn, led to the reduction of the mosquito breeding sites. This factor played a significant role in curbing the Malaria epidemic in Goa in the 1920s.
Mello also undertook new measures to improve urban sanitation, which included the introduction of Sanitary Police in Panjim. Faced with the task of dealing with the city's rabies epidemic during his term as mayor, he ordered the elimination of all stray dogs, offering a reward per stray dog. This resulted in a dramatic reduction in the number of cases of rabies. A similar reward was offered for the capture or destruction of venomous snakes, which led to the reduction of snakebites.


== Mayor of Panjim (1938–1945) ==
In 1926, Mello was elected as a member of parliament to represent Portuguese India in Lisbon. However, after the 28 May 1926 coup d'état, the elections were nullified and not held again for the next nineteen years. Mello served as the mayor of Panjim from 1938 to 1945. During his tenure as mayor, he cleansed its stables of mismanagement and fiscal deficits, and his mayorship is widely noted for the city's urbanisation.
In 1940, Mello devised a plan for the beautification of the city, particularly the church square, the present 18 June road and the Campal Zone. The latter still bears the imprint of the program carried out by him. He organised the balustrade on the Mandovi River, from the centre of town up to Campal, lining the riverside avenue. He also planted trees in many of the streets of Panjim, with seeds of tropical trees from Cuba. These jacaranda and acacia trees, whose seedlings were planted in 1940, now provide shade to the streets which were originally lined only with coconut and ficus trees.


== Member of Parliament (1945–1949) ==
In 1945, when the Portuguese parliament was re-opened, Mello was elected for the second time as MP to represent Portuguese India. He was the only independent MP to serve in the Portuguese parliament for the period 1945–49; all the others being members of dictator António de Oliveira Salazar's União Nacional party. However, Mello's independent status brought him into disfavour with Salazar, and his speeches in the National Assembly were censored. Initially, Mello was staunchly pro-Portuguese and believed that Goa should remain under the Portuguese Empire. In November 1946, at a National Assembly meeting at Lisbon, he denounced the unrest in Goa as the handiwork of a few "Fifth Columnists and Nazis, and intellectuals educated in central Europe and fanatics who had failed in life, who preach the absorption of Goa and foment hatred of the Portuguese nation."
He worked tirelessly for the repeal of the discriminatory Portuguese Colonial Act of 1930, which had previously relegated non-Portuguese citizens to second-class status in the Empire. The repeal of this discriminatory act was unanimously approved by the National Assembly in 1950. With the repeal of the act granted, Mello now began to advocate independence for the Portuguese Indian colonies of Goa, Daman and Diu, which would govern itself as a separate national entity, but within the Portuguese Commonwealth. This put him at further odds with the ruling Estado Novo regime, which considered their Indian colonies to be an integral part of Portugal and dismissed any ideas of independence.


== Last years ==
After retiring to Goa, Mello was not put up as candidate for re-election through a political manoeuvre of the Salazar's single party regime. In 1950, when the Fifth International Congress of Microbiology was to take place in Petropolis, Brazil, Mello who had expected to be nominated as the delegate of Portugal, found out to his surprise that Salazar had instead appointed another delegation without him. When this came to be known, the Brazilian Government invited him, providing for his travel and stay.
Finding himself under increased political persecution by Salazar's government in Goa, Mello emigrated with his wife to Brazil in 1951, where three of their children were already settled. He settled down in São Paulo, where he continued his research in the field of Protozoa, in the intestines of termites. He discovered various new species there which he dedicated to his new country. He gave lectures and conferences in Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo and was invited to organise the section of protozoology at the Instituto Ezequiel Dias in Belo Horizonte. Mello died in São Paulo of lung cancer on 9 January 1955, aged 67. His last scientific paper, Memorias do Instituto Ezequiel Dias (Memoirs of the Ezequiel Dias Institute) was published in February 1955, a month after his death.


== Personal life ==
Mello was married twice. His first wife was Marie Eugenie Caillat, a Swiss woman from Geneva, who after marriage moved with him to Panjim. Eugenie was the first person to translate the works of Rabindranath Tagore into French. She died in 1921 from complications brought on by the Spanish flu virus in Porto. The couple did not have any children.
On 15 September 1923, Mello married his second wife Hedwig Bachmann, a young Swiss school teacher from Diessenhofen. They had six children: Alfredo, Eugeήia, Victor, Francisco Paulo, Cristina and Margarida. Hedwig authored a book entitled Von der Seele der Indischen Frau (Tipografia Rangel, Goa, 1941) published also in translation, On the soul of the Indian women. The book is a psycho-sociological study of Hindu traditions as interpreted from proverbs and the impact of Aryan and Dravidian civilisations. One of his sons, Alfredo Bachmann de Mello (1924–2010), was a well-known travel writer and memoirist who authored an auto-biography, From Goa to Patagonia: memoirs spanning times and spaces. Another son, Victor Froilano Bachmann de Mello (1927–2009), was a world-renowned geotechnical engineer.


== Selected work ==


=== Malaria ===
Contribution to the study of Malaria in Goa, All India Sanitary Conference, Lucknow, 1914.
Profilaxia malrica nas povoacoes rurais das Novas Conquistas, Primeira Conferencia Sanitaria de Goa, Panjim, 1914. Also in Boletim Geral de Medecina e Farmacia, Nova Goa, 1914.
Alguns problemas sobre a malaria em Goa, Ibid., 1914.
Rapport sur les resultats du traitement des divers etats du paludisme par la Smalarina du Prof. Cremonese, "Transactions of the VII Congress of the Far East Association of Tropical Medicine", Calcutta, 1928.
Indicacoes do emprego da plasmoquina na terapeutica e profilaxia da malaria, Boletim Geral de Medecina e Farmacia, Panjim, 1929.
Sur l'emploi de la plasmoquine dans le traitement du paludisme, Presse Médicale, Paris, September 1929.
Sur une methode pour delimiter l'tendue des splenomegalies et enregistrer d'une faon precise leurs oscillations ulterieures, Bulletin Soc. Pathologie Exotique, Paris, 1929.
O Fomento das Novas Conquistas e suas relaoes com os problemas de assitencia e saneamento, Terciero Congresso Colonial Nacional, Lisbon 1930. Also in Boletim Geral de Medecina e Farmacia, Nova Goa 1930.
La plasmoquination en masse des localits malariennes et ses resultats prophylactiques, Bulletin Soc. Pathologie Exotique Paris, June 1931.
A scheme for malarial sanitation in rural areas, The Antiseptic, Madras, September 1933.
Premiere Campagne Antimalarienne active E0 Goa, Arquivo da Escola Medico Cirugica, Nova Goa, Seria B, 1934.
Nota final sobre a presente campana anti-palustre. – Ibid,, 1934.
On the mass chemoprophylaxis of malarial areas and its practical results, Medicina, Lisbon, 1935.
Sobre a Chimiprofilaxia das localidades malricas e seus resultados praticos aps dois anos de experiencia pessoal, Jornadas Medicas Galaico-Portuguesas, Orense, 1935. Also in Portugal Medico, Poro, May 1936.
Experimental studies on the treatment of malarial splenomgalies by the method of Ascoli, South Africa Medical Journal, November 1938. Also in the Compt Rendues du Congres de 1st South Africa Medical Association, Lourenco Marques, 1939.
Experiences cliniques sur le traitement des splenomgalies palustres par la methode d'Ascoli, A Medecina Contemporanea, Lisbon, November 1938.
La campagne antimalarienne dans les regions rurales de e Portugaise, Rivista Malariologia, Rome, 1938.
O problema da endemia malarica na India Portuguesa, Clinica, Higiene e Hidrologia, Lisbon, 1936.
Treatment of malaria with special reference to the chemoprophylaxis of malaria in Portuguese India, South African Medical Journal, December 1938. Also in O Medico, Nova Goa, 1939.
Resultats de 5 ans d'experience personelle sur la prophylaxie quinosynthtique des regions a haute endmicit palustre, Acta Conventius Tertii de Tropicis ut que Malaria Morbis (Congress of Amsterdam, 1938).
A orientação da campanha antimalárica nas Novas Conquista, seus resultados practicos e a liao que delas deriva para a nossa conducta futura, A Medecina Contemporanea, Lisbon, August 1937, Also in Boletim Geral de Medecina e Farmacia, Nova Goa, 1938.


=== Tuberculosis ===
Estado Actual da Ciencia sobre a tuberculose pulmonar, Boletim Geral de Medecina e Farmacia, Nova Goa, 1912.
Une nouvelle conception sur le mode d'action des tuberculines, Ibid., 1913.
Um caso de antracose pulmonar simulando a tuberculose, Ibid., 1917.
Un programe a suivre dans la declaration obligatoire de la tuberculose a l'Inde Portugaise, Revue d'hygiene et police Sanitaire, Paris, 1914.
Conferencia Provincial sobre a Tuberculose, Boletim Geral de Medecina e Farmacia, Nova Goa, 1934.


=== Leprosy ===
Traitement de la lepre, Presse Médicale, Paris, 1921.
Estado actual de Quimiterapia antileprosa, A Medecina Ibera, Madrid, 1925.
Breves consideraoes sobre o estado actul da Quimioterapia anti-leprosa (com impressoes clinicas pessoais sobre algumas das medicaoes preconizadas)-- communicated to the Congreso Luso Espanhol meeting in Coimbra, Boletim Geral de Medecina e Farmacia, Nova Goa, 1925.
Etat actuel de chimiotherapie antilepreuse, Presse Médicale, Paris, 1925.
Primeira Conferencia da Lepra na India Portuguesa, Arquivos Indo Portugueses de Medicina e Historia Natural, Vol. IV, 1927.
Wie soll die Lepra bekampft werden, Die Medizin Welt, Berlin, October 1928.
Une croisade internationale, combattant la Lepre, simultanement dans tous les pays, pourrait eteindre ce fleau en quelques decades, Cogres de Medicine Tropicale du Caire, 1928.
Le probleme de la lepre dans l'Inde Portugaise, Revue D'hygiene et de Medicine Preventive NBA V, Paris, 1931
Treatment of Leprosy by intravenous injections of pure Chaulmogra oil, Medical Digest, Bombay, August 1935.
A campanha anti leprosa na India Portuguesa, Arquivo da Escola Medico Cirugica, Nova Goa, Serie B, 1915.
Traitement de la lepre d'apres 3 ans d'experience personelle, XI Congres International de Dermatologie de Budapest, 1935
Como eu trato os meus leprosos (conclusoes baseadas em 3 anos de experiencias na Leprosaria Central de Macasana), Jornadas Medicas Galaico-Portuguesas, Orense, 1935. Also in Portugal Medico, Porto, 1936.
Leprosaria Central de Goa (Relatorio), Arquivo da Escola Medico Cirugica, Nova Goa, Serie B, 1937
Traitement et guerison de la Lepre, II Semaine Medicale Internationale, Montreux, 1935.
O problema da Lepra. Como se deve agir e como eu agi na nossa India – Lecture in the Liga da Profilaxia Social, Porto, Volume das Conferencias, 1939. Also in Boletim Geral de Medecina e Farmacia, Nova Goa, 1938.


== References ==


=== Bibliography ===

The Mal are an ethnic group native to Laos and Thailand. They are one of two sub-groups of the Lua people (the other one being the Phai).


== Name Variation ==
The Mal are also commonly referred to as Madl, Khatin, T'in, Htin, Thin, and Tin.


== Language ==
The Mal speak a language also called Mal, which is a Khmuic language. The Khmuic languages are Austroasiatic.


== Geographic Distribution ==
Population in Laos: 23,193 in Xaignabouli Province
Population in Thailand: 4,700
Population in United States: Unknown


== Religion ==


== See also ==
Mal Indian People


== References ==


== External links ==
http://projekt.ht.lu.se/rwaai RWAAI (Repository and Workspace for Austroasiatic Intangible Heritage)
http://hdl.handle.net/10050/00-0000-0000-0003-8A2D-F@view T'in in RWAAI Digital Archive

Amazon Sidewalk is a low-bandwidth long-range wireless communication protocol developed by Amazon. It uses Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) for short distance communication, and 900 MHz LoRa and other frequencies for longer distances.


== History ==
The idea of the Amazon Sidewalk wireless network originated from a startup called Iotera, founded by Rob Barton and Ben Wild. They launched the idea of a crowd sourced mesh network through a Kickstarter campaign in 2014.
Iotera was acquired by Ring Home Security in late 2017 and after Ring was acquired by Amazon in 2018, the Sidewalk project began building on top of the Iotera technology.
In September, 2019, Amazon announced the Sidewalk network and a domestic pet collar called Fetch (developed together with Tile) as the first device which would use the network. The network is composed of existing customers' Echo smart speakers which act as the bridges between Sidewalk and the Internet.
In September 2020, Amazon started seeking hardware developers to partner and develop devices for the network.
In May 2021, Amazon and Tile announced plans to use Sidewalk to compete with the AirTag tracker device and associated location service from Apple. CareBand started a pilot with Sidewalk to support people living with dementia in smart neighborhoods.
Amazon launched the Sidewalk network in the US on June 8, 2021.
In March 2023, Amazon opened the network up for outside developers to access, providing free test kits for developers to build Sidewalk devices. They stated that more than 90% of the U.S. population was covered by the Sidewalk network.


== Reception ==
Amazon Echo devices have Sidewalk enabled by default and do not inform their owner about it. The feature can be disabled via the official app.
A number of prominent news publishers, including The Guardian, ArsTechnica, CNET, PCMag, Click2Houston, and Bleeping Computer, expressed concern with opt-out nature of the network and published guides how to disable Amazon Sidewalk.
Amazon stated that "the maximum bandwidth of a Sidewalk Bridge to the Sidewalk server is 80 Kbps, which is about 1/40th [2.5%] of the bandwidth used to stream a typical high definition video." This comparison is misleading for ADSL connections with upstream bandwidth more limited than downstream bandwidth: 80 Kbps approaches 20% of the capacity of a 448 Kbps uplink.


== Technology ==
Amazon Sidewalk amalgamates multiple physical-layer wireless networking protocols and presents them into a single application layer they call "Sidewalk Application Layer".
Transmission technologies:

Bluetooth Low Energy for short distances and battery efficiency
LoRa for long-range low-power communication
Frequency-shift keying at 900 MHz, intended for interacting with legacy home appliances like garage door openers


== Devices ==
The following devices support Amazon Sidewalk:

Amazon Echo devices
Ring doorbells and cameras
CareBand wearables for people living with dementia
Fetch, an upcoming pet collar from Tile


== See also ==
LoRa
Zigbee
Weightless
Mass surveillance


== References ==


== External links ==
Amazon Sidewalk Privacy and Security Whitepaper FAQ
CareBand and Life360 tap Amazon technology to help people stay connected

Sediq Afghan (Dari: صدیق افغان ) is an Afghan political activist. He is the founder and head of the World Philosophical Math Research Center in Kabul, Afghanistan. He had a prominent role in protests in Kabul about Afghanistan- and Islam-related issues, including an anti-American protest in 2003, a hunger strike to protest beatings of journalists by Afghan security officers in 2006, and another one to protest the 2008 Danish Muhammad cartoons.
Sediq Afghan appears on the Russian propaganda TV shows on a regular basis, making predictions (which he claims are based on his mathematical research) of Russia winning the war and of various global catastrophic events. He claims various achievements that fail fact checks, such as: “He is one of the greatest geniuses of the world and is listed by the UN as a UNESCO heritage of humankind”.


== References ==


== External links ==
Siddiq Afghan's official website

Arena Sever (Russian: Арена-Север, lit. 'Arena North') is a multi-use arena in Krasnoyarsk, Russia. The arena was opened in 2011 and it is mainly used for ice hockey and basketball games. It is the home arena of the basketball team BC Enisey and of the ice hockey team Sokol Krasnoyarsk.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website (in Russian)

Andreas Christian Møller (18 February 1796 – 24 December 1874) was a Norwegian lathe operator and teacher of the Deaf who founded the first school for the Deaf in Norway. Møller is therefore considered the "father of Deaf education" in Norway. The AC Møller Sign Language Center bears his name.


== Biography ==

Møller was born in Trondheim, Norway, as the third of eight children to master shoemaker Johannes Møller and wife Ingeborg Christiansdatter Steen.


=== Education ===
Møller became deaf at two years of age as the result of smallpox. Attempts were made to restore his hearing through electric shock, which were unsuccessful. His education suffered during his upbringing due to his disability as there were no schools for the Deaf available nearby where he could be educated. The closest school for the Deaf was located in Copenhagen, Denmark and called Det Kongelige Døvstummeinstitut, the Royal Institute for the Deaf-Mute. Students were educated using the "French method" of Charles-Michel de l'Épée with sign language and written language; it was through sign language that they would learn Danish. Through financial support from the county's Department for the Poor in Trondheim, Møller began his studies at the school in 1810 at 14 years old. He did exceptionally well in several subjects and in 1815 began to learn woodworking on the lathe; that year he was put to work as "teacher and répétiteur for the oldest class of students" by the head of the school, Norwegian-born doctor and professor Peter Atke Castberg.


=== Teaching ===
From 1815 to 1817 Møller primarily resided in Trondheim, where he taught Deaf students from his father's home. When a position became available at the school in Copenhagen in 1817, a messenger was sent for Møller. He was encouraged to apply for the position, which he received. From 1817 to 1822 he worked as a teacher at the school; he was the first deaf teacher of the deaf in the Nordic countries.
Castberg encouraged Norwegian authorities to open a school for the Deaf in Trondheim with Møller as teacher. He also offered his advice and guidance. The suggestion was well-received, and the Bishop of Nidaros, Peder Olivarius Bugge, forwarded it to the Ministry of Church Affairs, at the time responsible for education, with his recommendation. The first school for the Deaf in Norway – and the first Norwegian school for special education – was founded by royal resolution on 1 November 1824. The school was given the name Throndhjems Døvstummeinstitut ('Trondheim Deaf-Mute Institute', today Huseby barneskole – AC Møller tegnspråksenter 'Huseby Primary School – AC Møller Sign Language Center'), and opened on 1 April 1825. It was the only such school in the country until the mid-1800s. For many years, the school operated as a family business. Møller worked as a teacher, his father Johannes Møller as accountant, and Møller's brother Petter Christian Møller as a teacher. Several other family members would later work at the school. The school also employed two Deaf teachers, Pehr Pehrson and Johan Julius Dircks.
Initially, the school was located in Waisenhuset, an orphanage near Nidaros Cathedral. Møller taught according to the French method, with emphasis on sign language. In the late 1830s the school underwent a shift after Møller's father and brother were dismissed – a former student who had worked for Johannes Møller had given birth and named "Hans" as the father; Petter Christian later came forth as the father and admitted he had long had improper conduct towards several students. In addition to the change in staff, there was a change in the school's pedagogical methods. The school moved away from the French method in favor of the German method, with a much greater emphasis on speech and lip reading (see Oralism). Despite the change, Møller remained with the school until 1855. His teaching position was then taken over by Pehrson.
Møller died of old age and bronchitis on 24 December 1874 in Trondheim.


== Family ==
Møller married Birgitte Marie Holst, daughter of Jens Hybe Holst and Vibeke Cathrine Berg, in Nidaros Cathedral on 26 April 1826. The couple had nine children, Julius Joakim (1827), Jens Hybe (1829), Anna Elisabeth Holst (1830), Amalie Marie (1832), Samuline Steeman (1834), Paul Moth Wildenrath (1837), Vibekke Katrine and Caroline Mathilde (1839), and Vilma Dapaula Scharadella (1843).


== See also ==
Elias Hofgaard, founder of the school for the deaf in Hamar
Fredrik Glad Balchen, founder of the school for the deaf in Oslo
Norwegian Sign Language


== References ==


=== Notes ===


=== Sources ===
Skavlan, Sigvald (2000). Nervik, Eli (ed.). Fra Throndhjems Døvstummeinstitut 1825 til Møller kompetansesenter 2000 (in Norwegian). Møller kompetansesenter.
Skjølberg, Trygve (1989). Andreas Christian Møller : Døvstummeinstitutet i Trondhjem og pionértiden i norsk døveundervisning (in Norwegian). Bergen: Døves forlag. ISBN 9788270520749. OCLC 473229163.

Kōnan (甲南町, Kōnan-chō) was a town located in Kōka District, Shiga Prefecture, Japan. "Kōnan" means "southern Kōka".
As of 2004, the town has an estimated population of 20,118 and a density of 408.07 persons per km2. The total area is 49.3 km2.
On October 1, 2004, Kōnan, along with the towns of Kōka, Minakuchi, Shigaraki and Tsuchiyama (all from Kōka District), was merged to create the city of Kōka.


== References ==


== External links ==
Koka Sightseeing Guide

The Arizona Whirlwind is a 1927 American silent Western film directed by William James Craft and starring Bill Cody, Margaret Hampton and David Dunbar.


== Cast ==
Bill Cody as Bill Farley
Margaret Hampton as Helen Dykeman
David Dunbar as Bert Hawley
Hughie Mack as Gonzales
Clark Comstock


== References ==


== External links ==
The Arizona Whirlwind at IMDb

Franko Bogdan (born 22 August 1965) is a Croatian retired football defender and later manager.


== Managerial career ==
He managed HNK Šibenik.
Bogdan founded football club NK Adriatic in 2010.


== References ==


== External links ==
Franko Bogdan at WorldFootball.net
Franko Bogdan at Kicker (in German)

Farderin bin Kadir (born 30 January 1987 in Malacca) is a former Malaysian professional footballer who mainly played as a striker or attacking midfielder. He was a member of Malaysia U-23 and Malaysia U-20 teams.


== Club career ==
Farderin started his professional career with the Malaysia U-20 squad in 2004. He played in the 2006 AFC Youth Championship in India. In 2007, season Farderin transferred to Kuala Muda NAZA. He was later loaned to Perlis FA for the 2008 Malaysia Cup. Farderin's performance attracted attention from national coach B. Sathianathan, who put him into the senior team for the 2008 Merdeka Tournament. However, he did not play a match during the tournament.
Farderin made his debut with the senior national team in an unofficial match against Zimbabwe on 12 July 2009. He also scored his first goal for the senior team in that match. Following a spell with Malaysian giants Selangor FA, he joined the newly promoted Felda United FC.


== Career statistics ==


=== Club ===
As of 28 July 2018


== Honours ==
2007–08 Malaysia Premier League:  Champion


== References ==


== External links ==
Kuala Muda NAZA Squad
Farderin Kadir's at  selangorfc.com (in Malay)

Jivaro or Jibaro, also spelled Hivaro or Hibaro, may refer to:

Jíbaro (Puerto Rico), mountain-dwelling peasants in Puerto Rico
Jíbaro music, a Puerto Rican musical genre
Jivaroan peoples, indigenous peoples in northern Peru and eastern Ecuador
Shuar or "Jivaro", one of the Jivaroan peoples
Chicham languages (Jivaroan), a language family of northern Peru and eastern Ecuador
Jivaro (film), a 1954 American 3-D film
Jíbaro (film), English title Wild Dogs, a 1985 Cuban film
Lake Jivaro, a reservoir in Shawnee County, Kansas, United States
Jibaro, the final episode of season three of Love, Death + Robots which won several awards.

Muruvika is a village in Malvik Municipality in Trøndelag county, Norway. The village is located near the end of the Stjørdalsfjorden, an arm of the Trondheimsfjord. The village sits about 3 kilometres (1.9 mi) north of the village of Hommelvik, the municipal centre.
The European route E6 highway used to pass through the village, but the highway now goes through the Hell Tunnel just south of Muruvika. The Meråker Line railway also passes through the village.
The 0.37-square-kilometre (91-acre) village has a population (2025) of 456 and a population density of 1,232 inhabitants per square kilometre (3,190/sq mi).


== References ==

MatrixNet is a proprietary machine learning algorithm developed by Yandex and used widely throughout the company products. The algorithm is based on gradient boosting, and was introduced since 2009.


== Application ==
CERN is using the algorithm to analyze, and search through the colossal data outputs generated by the use of the Large Hadron Collider.


== See also ==
Yandex Zen


== References ==

Abraham Lotha is an Indian anthropologist from Nagaland and the former Principal of St. Joseph's College, Jakhama, Nagaland who served from April 2011 till May 2015. He serves as the current president of the Lotha Academy and also wrote several books on Naga anthropology. Lotha is an ethnic Naga.


== Bibliography ==
History of Naga Anthropology 1832–1947, 2007 
The Raging Mithun: Challenges of Naga Nationalism Christianity, 2013 
The Hornbill Spirit: Nagas Living Their Nationalism, 2016 


== Accolades ==
In 2019, Abraham Lotha was awarded the Gordon Graham Prize for Naga Literature in the Non-Fiction category for his book, “The Hornbill Spirit: Nagas Living Their Nationalism”.


== References ==

Aeau Leota Tima Leavai (born ~1970) is a Samoan lawyer and politician. She is the daughter of former MP A'eau Peniamina.
Leavai is a lawyer who runs her own law firm. She contested the April 2021 Samoan general election in her father's seat of Falealupo as a candidate for the Human Rights Protection Party, and won the seat. On 29 June 2021 the Samoa Observer reported that she planned to resign her seat and not run again, as part of the settlement of an electoral petition. She formally resigned on 9 July.
In June 2020 Leavai was awarded the Aeau title by her village.


== References ==

Paracomitas protransenna is an extinct species of sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusk in the family Pseudomelatomidae, the turrids and allies.


== Description ==
The length of the shell attains 13 mm, its diameter 5 mm.
(Original description) The small shell is narrowly fusiform. The spire is turreted. The shell contains seven or eight whorls. It shows a strongly projecting rounded keel at middle on the spire-whorls, concave above and below, on the body whorl a well-marked concave area below keel followed by a second keel less pronounced, anterior to this rather abruptly contracted. The aperture and siphonal canal are slightly longer than the spire. The protoconch consists of about 1½ smooth whorls, the lower distinctly carinate, apex blunt. The sutures are linear, margined above and below, variable, some examples indistinct. Sculpture—spirals con sist of numerous fine lines on the keel and above and below it, indistinct in some specimens, on the body whorl usually more pronounced. The axials consist of growth lines only, variable in strength, arcuate between the keel and suture above. The aperture is small, ovate and produced into a long siphonal canal. The outer lip is angled at the keel, thence concave followed by a convexity, and beneath this rapidly narrowing to the siphonal  canal. The columella is narrowly callused, straight in the middle portion, narrowing and slightly twisted to the left.


== Distribution ==
This extinct marine species is endemic to New Zealand.


== References ==

Maxwell, P.A. (2009). Cenozoic Mollusca. pp 232–254 in Gordon, D.P. (ed.) New Zealand inventory of biodiversity. Volume one. Kingdom Animalia: Radiata, Lophotrochozoa, Deuterostomia. Canterbury University Press, Christchurch

Mirza Bašić was the defending champion but lost in the first round to Martin Kližan.
Daniil Medvedev won the title, defeating Márton Fucsovics in the final, 6–4, 6–3.


== Seeds ==
The top four seeds received a bye into the second round. 


== Draw ==
Key


=== Finals ===


=== Top half ===


=== Bottom half ===


== Qualifying ==


=== Seeds ===


=== Qualifiers ===


=== Qualifying draw ===


==== First qualifier ====


==== Second qualifier ====


==== Third qualifier ====


==== Fourth qualifier ====


== References ==


== External links ==
Main draw
Qualifying draw

The Hutton Medal is awarded annually by the Royal Society Te Apārangi to a researcher who, working within New Zealand, has significantly advanced understanding through work of outstanding scientific or technological merit.


== Requirements ==
Prior to 2017 it was awarded in rotation for research in animal sciences, earth sciences, or plant sciences. From, and including, 2017, it is awarded to any of the three disciplines but will not normally be awarded in the same discipline two years in a row. The awardee must have received the greater part of his/her education in New Zealand or have resided in New Zealand for not less than 10 years.
The bronze medal has a portrait of Hutton on one side, with a landscape on the reverse featuring a kiwi, a tuatara, New Zealand plants (Celmisia, Phormium, Cordyline) and an active volcano in the background.


== Background ==
The award is named after Frederick Wollaston Hutton FRS (1836–1905). Hutton was the first President of the New Zealand Institute (the forerunner to the Royal Society), serving from 1904 to 1905. In 1909 the Hutton Memorial Fund was established to support the Hutton Medal and also grants for research in New Zealand zoology, botany or geology.
Until 1996 the medal was awarded not more than once every three years, from 1996 to 2008 the medal was awarded biennially and from 2009 it has been awarded annually.


== Recipients ==

There have been the following recipients of the Hutton Medal.


== References ==

The Secret Life of the American Teenager is a television series created by Brenda Hampton. It first premiered on ABC Family on July 1, 2008 and ran until June 3, 2013. The first season featured a cast of eleven main and recurring characters, with characters having both been written in and out of the series in subsequent seasons. The series features multiple guest stars each episode.
The plot focuses on the character of Amy Juergens, a 15-year-old who gets pregnant at band camp before entering high school. It explores how the pregnancy affects her, her peers, and her family. The pregnancy produces a son, John Juergens. In later seasons, after her younger sister starts high school, Amy finds how virtually everyone at school carries a secret or an unexpected problem.


== Main characters ==


=== Cast overview ===


=== Amy Juergens ===
Portrayed by Shailene Woodley, Amy gets pregnant by student Ricky Underwood after a one-night stand at band camp before her freshman year of high school. At the beginning of the series, she is 15 years old. Upon entering high school, Amy begins a relationship with Ben Boykewich (also 15), a supportive classmate with whom she falls in love. She confesses her pregnancy to her two best friends, Madison and Lauren, who accidentally spread the gossip that Amy had sex with Ricky. During this time, Amy's 13-year-old sister Ashley discovers her pregnancy due to Amy's recent weight gain and erratic behavior, but promises to keep her secret from their parents. Ben proposes to Amy after finding out, because he genuinely loves her, and feels he would be a better father than Ricky due to his family's financial stability. After Amy tells her parents, she contemplates having an abortion, as she is afraid of her peers' perceptions. She changes her mind, but is still adamant about not returning to school. Ricky reaches out to Amy during this time, saying that he wants to be involved with what happens to the baby. Amy plans to go live with her grandmother Mimsy, but is unable to go after discovering that Mimsy is suffering from Alzheimer's disease, and is moving into assisted care living. Amy returns to school, but is uncomfortable with being known as "the pregnant girl".
Halfway through her pregnancy, Amy's mother Anne informs her that in order to keep the baby, she will have to find a job and daycare. Anne intends to get a job to replace the loss of her husband George's income as they prepare for divorce. Amy is surprised, since she assumed that her mother would stay home and look after the baby, as she had with her daughters. As a result, Amy and Ben marry using fake IDs, but they learn afterwards that the marriage was void since they were both underage. Amy then decides on adoption, and discovers that her father's longtime employee Donovan and his husband Leon want to adopt the baby. The adoption fails due to Ricky's interference, and she ultimately decides to keep the baby due to the love and support of her family and friends.
After Amy decides to keep the baby, Grace and Adrian throw her a baby shower, where Amy then goes into labor. While in the hospital, Amy reprimands Ricky for getting her pregnant, but then realizes that she was equally responsible for what had happened. She gives birth to their son, John, whom she lets Ashley name, and begins to struggle with motherhood.
After breaking up with Ben during her sophomore year, Amy briefly dates Jimmy, the son of her mother's ex-boyfriend, but their relationship ends after he finds a condom in her purse. Not knowing this at first, Amy thinks that Jimmy broke up with her because she was a bad kisser, and asks Ricky to kiss her just to be sure. Adrian finds out about the kiss, and sleeps with Ben in order to get back at both of them (however, Adrian believed it was more than a kiss until Ricky informs her after Adrian and Ben's one-night-stand). Amy and Ben quickly reconcile and get back together around the end of the year.
After being accepted into a summer music program in New York City, Amy decides to go but is surprised to learn that the program is for teen mothers. During this time, Ben reveals to Amy that Adrian had gotten pregnant from their one-night stand, and that he had been keeping her pregnancy from Amy for several weeks. After breaking up with Ben, she develops feelings for Ricky when he comes to visit. She tells him that if he really wants to be with her, he has to stop sleeping around, and get tested for any sexually transmitted diseases.
At the beginning of season four, Amy and Ricky are together and are trying to be a real family for their son. After the stillborn death of Ben and Adrian's daughter, Amy and Ricky begin a sexual relationship. Three months later, Amy moves herself and John into Ricky's little apartment over the butcher shop where he works. Amy decides she wants to marry Ricky, but he thinks she's moving too fast. Later he proposes at their graduation, where he is also valedictorian. At a graduation party, Ricky kisses Adrian one last time; something Amy allowed. The next day, Ricky is surprised that Amy isn't in a hurry to marry, but is content with just being engaged until she feels the time is right for them to marry. Later in the season, Amy thinks she is pregnant again and becomes very moody. Although she finds out that she is not pregnant, she is still irritable. Ricky takes her back to where they first met and Amy begins to become a little more happy and appreciative of Ricky, and more excited about his proposal to her. Shortly after Amy discovers her mother is a lesbian, she tells Ricky that they should elope, to which Ricky agrees. Amy tells everyone that she and Ricky eloped in the season 5 premiere, keeping the fact they changed their minds at the last minute and are in fact not married a secret. The series ends with Amy breaking off the relationship and going to college in New York, leaving John with Ricky.


=== Richard "Ricky" Underwood ===
Portrayed by Daren Kagasoff, Ricky Underwood is the lead male character. His father, Bob, is a drug addict who beat Ricky's mother Nora and sexually abused Ricky as a young child. His mother was both a drug addict and an alcoholic who never helped him out of fear. Ricky was taken away from his parents after the abuse came to light, and put into foster care. As a teenager, Ricky attended Ulysses S. Grant High School, where he was the drummer in the high school marching band and had a reputation of being a promiscuous bad boy. He used to see a therapist, Lauren's father Dr. Ken Fields, who he occasionally visits for advice as an adult. The summer before Ricky's sophomore year, he impregnated Amy Juergens after a one-night stand at band camp, finding out about her pregnancy a few months later. Despite his misgivings over being a good father, Ricky is shown to love and care for his son John. He and Amy go on a date in the fall finale of season 3 and she makes him get tested before considering having sex with him. Ricky tests disease-free, and chooses to not have sex with anyone other than Amy. Their first time having sex after their one-night stand occurred in the wake of dealing with the news of Ben and Adrian's stillborn daughter. Amy and John soon move in with Ricky. Amy finds messages left by Adrian, after telling her she's in love with Ricky. Amy gets caught by Ricky, with him stating they should spend some time apart if she can't trust him. Ricky eventually apologizes to Amy and they get back together. Amy tries to get Ricky to propose by doing "wild" things such as giving him a milkshake and a bath. Ricky ends up being the valedictorian, and at the end of his speech he proposes to Amy. At the graduation party Amy allows Ricky to kiss Adrian one last time to give closure to her. Ricky wants to know when Amy wants to get married, and is taken aback when Amy doesn't seem to be in a hurry to plan their wedding. Amy then has a pregnancy scare, and Ricky is supportive and takes Amy to band camp so she can be happy. Amy tells everyone that she and Ricky eloped in the season 5 premiere even though they pulled out at the last minute. Eventually Amy breaks up with him and leaves John in his care while she goes to New York to attend college.


=== Adrian Lee-Boykewich ===
Portrayed by Francia Raisa, Adrian is the daughter of Ruben Enriquez and Cindy Lee, and the ex-wife of Ben. She is 16 years old. Adrian is both book smart and street smart, hard-edged and emotional. Although she is a straight-A student and a majorette, she has a reputation for being a drama queen and the "school slut". She also has strong feelings for Ricky despite claiming she doesn't anymore since they stopped speaking to each other. Adrian grew up never knowing who her father was, until she went on a search to find him. Her father ended up marrying her mother after 16 years of being apart from each other. Adrian and her parents now live next door to the Juergens family. Her mother is a flight attendant and her father is a District Attorney. Like Ricky, Adrian is also known to use sex to deal with pain. In the episode "Be My, Be My Baby", she reveals that she first had sex when she was fifteen, with her childhood best friend Antonio, who was moving away in order to get cancer treatments. Adrian is infuriated after she finds out that Ricky kissed Amy, believing that it went beyond kissing, although it was a mostly innocent encounter. Adrian has a one-night-stand with Ben in retaliation, and ends up becoming pregnant with his child. She has her mind set on abortion, but eventually reconsiders and decides to keep the baby. Adrian's decision receives positive support from her father and even Amy, who had called her to let her know that she was giving Adrian the same offer of a friendship between them that she had given her in the past, because their children might end up becoming friends. Adrian later finds out that she is having a baby girl, which both she and Ben are excited about, and she and Ben later marry. Adrian gives birth to their daughter Mercy, who is tragically stillborn due to heart failure. Adrian and Ben are both devastated by Mercy's death. After this, Ben realizes he no longer loves Adrian, and that he may never have truly loved her. Ben decides that he wants a divorce. When she finds out, Adrian tries to get pregnant again, believing that they will fall back in love and be happy again if she has another baby. When this doesn't work, she decides he should leave. After Ben departs, Adrian realizes she still loves Ricky, and begins dating a guy named Dante in an attempt to make Ricky jealous. In the process, she meets Dante's brother, Omar, and begins dating him, because Dante left the country without an explanation. But Ricky has other plans – he ends up proposing to Amy at their graduation. Adrian wants one last kiss from Ricky, to see if she still has feelings for him. At the graduation party, she receives the kiss and is happy to discover that the kiss leaves her unmoved; however, Omar is at the party and is offended by Adrian kissing Ricky, and leaves. Disconsolate, Adrian has sex with Henry. The next day, she realizes that she has made a mistake, and repeatedly calls Omar, who does not answer her calls. To her surprise, Dante arrives back from his semester abroad. When she tells him that she has been seeing his brother, he breaks up with her. Adrian and her best friend Grace are fed up with boys, and decide to enroll in summer school together. Shortly after, Adrian gets a letter in the mail, stating that she is legally divorced from Ben. She then completes summer school and shows signs of still being in love with Ricky. She falls back in love with Omar, but denies his proposal of marriage, wanting to wait until her schooling is complete.


=== Benjamin "Ben" Boykewich ===
Portrayed by Ken Baumann, Benjamin "Ben" Boykewich is the 15-year-old son of Leo Boykewich, and Amy's high school boyfriend and first love. He meets Amy after his best friend Alice points her out one day at school, and they begin dating and fall in love. He offers to marry Amy when he finds out she's pregnant, but she declined his offer at the time. When Amy's mother Anne, tells her that she must support her baby on her own, she changed her mind and decides to marry Ben, as his family is financially stable. Amy and Ben marry with fake ID's, but discover that their marriage is null and void because they are both minors. They eventually break up after Amy's baby is born and Ben can't handle seeing her bond with Ricky. Adrian finds out she is pregnant with Ben's baby after a one-night stand essentially ruining Ben's chances of a relationship with Amy and they eventually get together. They marry and move in together before their baby is born with the financial support of Ben's father. After their baby is born stillborn Ben can't handle Adrian anymore and decides to divorce her against her wishes. At the end of the series, Ben and Amy attend the same university.


=== Ashley Juergens ===
Portrayed by India Eisley, Ashley Juergens is the younger daughter of Anne and George, and Amy's younger sister. She is mature, observant, and sarcastic, tending to speak in a low, monotone voice. Ashley is the first member in the Juergens family to learn of Amy's pregnancy. She is often forgotten by her family and remarks that she could get away with anything. However, Ashley's main concern is keeping her family together. Ashley believed that Amy's baby would reunite her dividing family and worked hard to discourage Amy from adoption. After the baby was born, she named her nephew John since she thought it was simple and classic. During the third season she developed feelings for Ricky. She stays away from Ricky, for benefit of Amy and Ricky, but is told to back down by Amy so that she and Ricky can see if they can try to be a couple. Ashley passes her GED after a brief stint in home-schooling and travels across the US with her new friend, Toby. They end up broke in Florida and stay with his grandmother, earning money with various part-time jobs. Ashley returns home the day after Ricky's graduation and announces that she will be attending college in Florida in the fall. In Season 5, Ashley's relationship with Toby has progressed into a sexual relationship. Her father is very upset once hearing this, but Ashley explains that they are in love and practicing safe-sex. After coming back from a trip to Europe with her mother, she finds out that she was accepted to a cooking school in Italy. Both George and Anne say no to the idea, so she ends up running away with the help of her grandmother Mimsy, who gives her ten thousand dollars.


=== Jack Pappas ===
Portrayed by Greg Finley, Jack Pappas is a high school sophomore and quarterback on the football team. His stepfather, Reverend Stone, is the minister of the church where he and Grace first met. He cheats on Grace in the first episode when he has oral sex with Adrian, and is then caught kissing her at the school dance. Grace eventually forgives him, and they start to date in secret because of her parents' disapproval. To Jack's dismay, Ricky pretends to be dating Grace as a cover for her parents. Their relationship ends again when a security camera catches Ricky saving Grace from two men after Jack left her in a bad part of town. He is shown to be clearly jealous over Ricky, which prompts him to tell Grace that he only started dating her because his stepfather asked him to. He eventually breaks up with Grace and moves in with Tom in Grace's family's guest house, even though he still loves Grace. He later dates Madison and they break up after summer vacation. Jack and Madison reunite, and although they are back together, Madison becomes very jealous that Jack is living with Grace's family. He moves out of the guest house and into the big house (where Grace lives) because Tom's new girlfriend and her children move into the guest house with Tom. Jack's room is next to Grace's which makes Madison even more nervous about their relationship. Later on, Jack and Madison break up, because he is still in love with Grace. Jack is chosen to give the invocation at the graduation ceremony, and Grace helps him write it. At the end of season 4 they share a kiss to see if they still have feelings for each other. The kiss is captured on a cell phone, and the picture is sent to Grace's current boyfriend, Daniel. Jack is jubilant when Grace's boyfriend breaks up with her, but Grace's mother suggests that since he is going to college in a few months, perhaps he'd be better off just being friends with Grace and taking advantage of new college experiences. He tries to date by sleeping with a girl named Clementine, who is an old friend of Ricky's, but realizes that he still wants to be with Grace. After they get back together, Grace discovers his recent relationship with Clementine, and has trouble trusting him. Jack is in critical condition after a pimp beat him with a baseball bat in his dorm room for paying an underage prostitute without sex and helping her escape. Jack eventually ends up marrying Madison. They also move to New York. Jack becomes a coach at St. Francis.


=== Grace Bowman ===
Portrayed by Megan Park, Grace Bowman is the biological daughter of Marshall and Kathleen Bowman and the younger sister of the adopted Tom Bowman. Grace is 18 years old. She is in 12th grade and an ex-cheerleader. At the beginning of the show, Grace was a devout religious person and does her best to be stay true to her religion. Originally, she was in a relationship with Jack, but they had a lot of disagreements over whether or not to have sex. Grace believed in waiting until marriage, and even wore a promise ring to prove it. She and Jack later break up after he has oral sex with Adrian. She briefly becomes involved with Ricky, but breaks up with him after discovering that he's still sleeping with Adrian. Grace and Jack get back together when Amy has John. In the second season opener, she and Jack decide to have sex. She quickly regrets her decision after the sudden death of her father. She later on becomes involved with Grant, the cousin of Griffin. Grant and Grace bond over their shared desire to become doctors, and strengthen that bond over a summer at MED camp. In her endeavors to become a doctor, she visits Africa with her doctor stepfather, where she cheats on Grant with Daniel, a college student. Grant and Grace later break up and she begins to date Daniel, but their relationship isn't smooth due to his greater maturity. Grace becomes jealous of Daniel's ex-girlfriend at the graduation party and Daniel leaves. Grace and Jack share a kiss the next morning after the party, which is captured on a cell phone by Daniel's ex-girlfriend, Raven. Raven texts the picture to Daniel, and he breaks up with Grace, realizing that she still has feelings for Jack. Grace later confesses to Adrian that she thinks she may still be in love with Jack. Also, Grace kissed Adrian and questions her sexuality. All signs point to her either being lesbian or bisexual. She and Jack end their engagement and she moves to New York and becomes a doctor.


=== George Juergens ===
Portrayed by Mark Derwin, George Juergens is the estranged husband of Anne Juergens, the father of Amy, Ashley and Robbie Juergens, and the maternal grandfather of John Juergens. George is a comically blunt, somewhat immature and often oblivious man, but one who loves his family and tries hard to protect them and keep them together. His first wife was Kathleen Bowman, a woman who married him for sex. George, a furniture salesman, met Anne while she was in college. He and Anne eloped shortly after discovering Anne was pregnant with Amy. Two years later, they had Ashley. It is later found out that he cheated on Anne with other women. The two get a divorce and remarried and separate again. He also has another son with Anne, Robbie. He currently lives at his children's childhood home with his dog. When everyone moves out, he invites Ricky's mother, Nora, to move in with him as a roommate. She moves into Ashley's garage bedroom. George and Anne still feel a spark for each other, but Anne seems intent on seeing the divorce go through. After George realizes Anne really is gay and he has no more feelings for her, he starts to date his first wife Kathleen (Grace and Tom's mother) again. They realize they still have their spark and that they are still in love.


=== Anne Juergens ===
Portrayed by Molly Ringwald, Anne Juergens is the daughter of Mimsy and Robert, the divorced wife of George Juergens, the mother of Amy, Ashley and Robbie Juergens and the maternal grandmother of John Juergens. She is a responsible, practical, and naturally independent woman who tries to install the same virtues in her daughters. Anne met George while she was majoring in Women's Studies at college. When Anne discovered she had become pregnant with Amy, she reluctantly dropped out of college, married George and became a wife. Two years later, she had Ashley, and another 14 years after that, she had Robbie. She and George separated after she became tired of his womanizing and realized that she was not happy in the marriage. She dated an architect for a while, and they planned to marry when she became pregnant, thinking it was his child; he later confessed that he could not have children, and she realized that Robbie was George's son. She lived with her mother for a while after her separation from George, but when her mother went into a home for Alzheimer's patients, she was on her own, and began to see a high school sweetheart for companionship, but the relationship didn't go anywhere. She and George made an attempt to get back together and she took over the design portion of his furniture business, but again she finds poorly-hidden evidence that he was unfaithful, and resumed divorce proceedings. In season 5, after George spreads the truth as a rumor around town, Anne Juergens comes out to her family as a lesbian. She walks in her house one day when Nora (Ricky's birth mother) was having an AA meeting with all lesbians attending. Anne gets to know one of them closely and invited her to stay the night. They plan to go out on a date.


=== Leo Boykewich ===
Steve Schirripa portrays Leo Boykewich, Ben's widowed father. He owns the local butcher shop, and is known as "The Sausage King". Leo is one of the first people to suspect Amy's pregnancy due to her huge appetite and nausea. He even supported Ben's decision to marrying Amy since he met Ben's mother when they were in high school. He's usually portrayed as the voice of reason for many of the characters on the shows. Such as when he tells Ben off for believing that he can support Amy's baby with his money. He gives Ben and Ricky jobs at the butcher shop as a way to help support Amy. In the second season, Leo begins to date a woman named Betty, who is the prostitute Tom had once hired. It was later revealed by Betty that she was very upfront about her profession the first day she introduced herself to Leo, because she was afraid of embarrassing him. He later proposes to Betty, but she explains that she may still be married to her ex. He promises to hunt down her husband, who turns out to be dead, and they marry in an elaborate ceremony. Leo takes Ricky under his wing by allowing him to live in the upstairs apartment. He is upset when Ben and Adrian discover they are having a baby, and tries to caution Ben from marrying Adrian just because she is pregnant. Ben is insistent, however, so Leo purchases a condo for the newlyweds. When Ben is ambivalent about being married, Leo sternly tells him that he made the choice, and he now has to make the best of it. When the baby is stillborn, Leo tearfully breaks the news to Ben and Adrian's friends at the hospital, and then later supports Ben's decision to get a divorce. In Season 4, Leo questions whether or not he wants to be married to Betty anymore when he suspects that his longtime assistant, Camille, is in love with him. Even so, Leo decides to stick with the marriage because he believes that is the right thing to do. Betty later decides that she wants a divorce and Leo agrees to it. He later sends Camille flowers and a bracelet and invites her out to dinner. While talking in the car on the way to dinner Camille kisses Leo, and the two are later seen together at graduation. They marry in the fifth season, and decide to adopt a young girl who was the underaged prostitute that Jack helped.


== Recurring characters ==
The following is a list of characters that are, or at one time were, a recurring guest on the series.


=== Nora Underwood ===
Anne Ramsay portrays Nora Underwood, Ricky's biological mother. For the majority of the first season, she is a distant character in Ricky's past. She has been to jail a few times due to drug possession and Ricky often felt bitter towards her because she failed to protect him from his father's abuse. But in season 3, episode 7, she comes back into his life to spend time with her son before she gets put back in jail. Ruben Enriquez (Adrian's father), as a DA helps Ricky get his mother out of jail, as he is willing to try and forgive her. Later on in the season, the two begin to repair the relationship, however, she was unsure about telling him she has a girlfriend, but she later does, and is gratified when Ricky seems pleased for her. The relationship doesn't last, though, and after a night of binge drinking (with the purported intent of convincing Ben that he shouldn't drink) she moves out of Margaret and Shakur's home and moves in with George Juergens, who initially tries to make a play for her, but remains pals when he discovers that she is a lesbian. She is very proud of Ricky's accomplishments in spite of his shaky childhood.


=== Henry Miller & Alice Valko ===
Allen Evangelista portrays Henry 'Hank' Miller, who has been Ben's friend since the third grade. He is now dating Alison 'Alice' Valko (who is portrayed by Amy Rider), who has also become a friend of Ben's and some of the girls in school. Alice is very smart and knows a lot of factual information, while Henry is a bit more social. They have and discuss sex quite often, but fairly maturely. In the first episode, Alice pointed out Amy to Ben. In season 4 Henry breaks up with Alice and the two try "shared custody" of Ben, which is awkward and doesn't work out. In the 13th episode of Season 4, Alice walks into a bedroom after a graduation party to find Henry in bed with Adrian. Angrily, she tells Ben what she found, and Ben tells Henry he is no longer welcome in his home. After Ben finds out that he can no longer date Dylan, a sad conversation with Alice turns into sex. Henry thinks that there is something going on that he doesn't know about and pressures Alice to tell him. Ben doesn't know that Alice told Henry, and is mad at him for kissing Dylan.


=== Marc Molina ===
Jorge Pallo portrays Marc Molina, who was the school guidance counselor and was a big hit with the girls at the start of the school year. Before Amy reveals her pregnancy to her two best friends, Lauren and Madison, they gab about the new counselor, asking if she has something better to talk about than him. He's always helping people, especially Ben and Adrian. He disappeared before the season break, with people saying that he ran off with Adrian, but no one really knew why he was gone. It was later revealed that he left to get married. We later find out that his wife was his crazy girlfriend that he talked about with Ben and also that he was once a cop until his wife made him quit the force. Marc believes he married the wrong person, but it is revealed that his wife is pregnant when she comes to Amy's baby shower. He eventually resigned because he needed a better job to support his growing family.


=== Mimsy Scott Levy ===
Alice Hirson portrays Mimsy, Anne's mother, Amy, Ashley and Robie's grandmother and John Juergens great-grandmother. She has the beginnings of Alzheimer's disease and recently moved to an assisted care home. It is stated that she likes everyone better than Anne, and Anne is reluctant to tell her about anything in her life, such as her marital problems with George as well as her pregnancy. Anne and Amy worry about her sometimes. Mimsy is reported as having suffered a slight stroke and therefore, Anne and George miss John's first birthday to go to her side. Mimsy surprises Anne and George with the news that she has married a gentleman named Eugene Levy. In season 5, Ashley takes advantage of her Alzheimer's and convinces Mimsy to give her $10,000 to run away to Italy for cooking school.
Alice Hirson previously portrayed Jenny Jackson, mother of Annie Camden in 7th Heaven.


=== Kathleen Bowman ===
Josie Bissett portrays Kathleen Bowman, who is the mother of Grace Bowman, adoptive mother of Tom Bowman, the ex-wife of George Juergens, and new wife of Jeff Tseguay. She cheated on George during their marriage. As a teen, Kathleen's mother did not let her have any physical contact with any boys. She told Grace that she only married George for sex. She waited until she married Marshall Bowman to have sex with him. She becomes a widow after Marshall dies in a private jet crash and began dating a younger man named Dr. Jeff Tseguay, a gynecologist, much to Grace's displeasure. Kathleen and Jeff are so excited that Grace suddenly seems to be in favor of the marriage that they impulsively decide to marry right away. Kathleen therefore changed her name from "Bowman" to "Tseguay". Kathleen tries to balance supervising Tom's special needs with his desire to be independent, and tries to get Grace to behave responsibly when it comes to sex. Kathleen then gets back together with George Juergens in a serious relationship.


=== Tom Bowman ===
Luke Zimmerman portrays Tom Bowman, Grace's adopted older brother, who has Down syndrome. His mother died earlier in his life, and then he was adopted by the Bowmans. With the normal drives of a young man, he is interested in sex—at one point, he calls an "escort" service and a prostitute named Betty comes in response to his call. They do not have sex, but she spends the evening talking with him and allowing him to confess his frustrations. Later, he meets Tammy and wants to marry her, despite having only been on one date with her. Tammy ends up marrying someone else. He sometimes refers to Ricky as "Drummer Boy" and cares deeply about Grace. He mistakes Adrian's manipulation of him to borrow money as interest in him, and tries to respond, with no luck. When it is first announced that Adrian is pregnant, Tom proposes to her, and promises to take care of her. She gently refuses him. He and Jack share the Bowman's guesthouse for a while when Tom is impatient for more independence than Kathleen is willing to allow him. Jack moves into the main house when Tom begins dating a woman with two children that he met on the bus on his way to work as a Vice President of Human Resources.


=== Dr. Marshall Bowman ===
John Schneider portrays Dr. Marshall Bowman, Grace's overprotective father. He's also the partner of the Juergens' pediatrician, Dr. Hightower, which is how he found out about Amy's pregnancy. Marshall later admits to Ricky that his brother was sexually abused by his neighbor and later committed suicide. Marshall dies when his private jet crashes, leaving Grace thinking the crash was all her fault because she had sex with her boyfriend, Jack, after Marshall told her not to. His body was cremated and spread on a hole in a golf course. It was discovered in Season 4, that Marshall had a relationship with another woman while he was in Zimbabwe and they had a son together named Jacob.


=== Madison Cooperstein ===
Renee Olstead portrays Madison Mildred Cooperstein. She is in 12th grade, she's one of Amy's best friends, and her values are defined by her Catholicism. Madison unintentionally spreads gossip and rumors, though she is a well-meaning girl. She dated Lauren's brother, Jason, and unintentionally spread the news of Amy's pregnancy. She feels ignored by Amy because she is spending more time with Ben than with her. Madison broke up with Jason but started to have feelings over the breakup. It is revealed that her mother died. Madison seems to have a crush on Jack and might have done something with him over the summer. She does not want a relationship with Jack despite fooling around with him. After Jack and Grace's relationship fizzles, Jack begins to date Madison. Madison, hoping to reassure Jack that she is a "free spirit" and doesn't want to trap him, tells Jack that she's not interested in children or marriage. This causes Jack to rethink the relationship because, as he tells her, the whole idea of dating is to find someone that you might want to marry. Since she says she doesn't want to marry, perhaps he should be dating elsewhere. Madison quickly recants and tells Jack that she is interested in a family and children, but not for a long time. They resume their relationship, and while Madison is seriously considering having sex with Jack, she confesses that she isn't quite ready, wanting the occasion to be special and wearing a pretty dress and having her make-up done. Jack tells her that he is fine with waiting. So, to get around having actual sex, Madison and Jack often have oral sex. After school ends, Madison sleeps over at the Bowman guest house (where Jack stays) and lies about where she spent the night. When her father gets an email from Lauren, he forbids Madison and Jack to date. Madison later tries to date her former supervisor, whom her father discovers lied about his age, and proceeds to kick him out of his home. Madison lost her virginity to Jack after Adrian and Ben's wedding, but because she and Jack regret having sex, they decide to discontinue any sexual activity. At the graduation party Madison has sex with Lauren's boyfriend, Jesse. Lauren tells her that she hates her, orders her out of her house when Madison comes to apologize, and rips up a photo of the two of them. Lauren forgives her.


=== Lauren Treacy ===
Camille Winbush portrays Lauren Treacy, who is also in the 12th grade and one of Amy's best friends. She is smart, practical, and seems to be the voice of reason for Amy. Her father is Ricky's therapist. Along with Madison, Lauren also accidentally spread the news of Amy's pregnancy. She made out with Ricky one night in his car. She also feels ignored by Amy. Her parents are divorced, and her mother is remarried. Lauren is now dating Jesse, and plans to have sex with him when Madison and Jack have sex. After her parents find out that she and Jesse slept over at Jack's guest house and she lied about it, her father and mother ban her from seeing and being with Jesse. She and Jesse break up, but then get back together when they realize they still care for each other. Jesse throws an all-night graduation party, where he drinks too much and ends up in bed with Madison after Lauren makes it clear that she neither intends to drink or have sex that night. Angrily, she breaks up with Jesse and tells Madison that she hates her.


=== Jason Treacy ===
Andrew McFarlane portrays Jason Treacy, Lauren's older brother and Madison Cooperstein's ex-boyfriend. He's a member of the Grant High Football team and portrayed as an excellent student, proven by the fact that he was the only other student besides Grace Bowman to be accepted into the Young Healers Camp program, for students who aspire to be doctors. At med camp, he and Grace became extremely attracted to one another because of all the time they spent together, and eventually they kissed. However, before returning home, they agreed to only be friends, but Jason still broke up with Madison before the next school year began. Along with Grace and her new boyfriend, Grant, he also attended the Young Healers Camp again the following summer.


=== Dr. Jeff Tseguay ===
Reid Scott portrays Dr. Jeff Tseguay, Grace's step-father. Jeff met Kathleen during the aftermath of Marshall's death—his brother died in the same plane crash that killed Marshall. Kathleen and Jeff's relationship is inadvertently discovered by Jack when he is in a drug store and witnesses Kathleen and Jeff purchasing contraceptives. He agrees not to tell Grace, but Kathleen decides to go ahead and tell Grace anyway, knowing that her interest in another man only six months after Marshall's death will deeply upset her. One evening, Kathleen is at Jeff's house and Jeff decides not to answer a phone call from his mother. His mother becomes concerned and bursts in on the couple talking in bed, much to Jeff's chagrin, Kathleen's embarrassment, and his mother's interest. Their relationship escalates quickly, and upon Grace's pretense at encouragement, they decide to marry. The day after the wedding, Jeff talks to Grace and tells her that he feels that they got off on the wrong foot, and, as her new stepfather and as an obstetrician/gynecologist, invites her to talk about her misgivings. During the talk, Grace begins to sort out her conflicted feelings about sex. Jeff later joins a medical team working for an extended period in Africa, where Grace visits him and meets Daniel. Jeff invites Kathleen to join him in Africa for a few months, and although tempted, she doesn't feel that she can leave Tom and Grace.


=== Betty Boykewich ===
Jennifer Coolidge portrays Betty, who meets and interests Leo Boykewich. She is upfront about telling him that she has been a prostitute, because she doesn't want him embarrassed when he finds out, but he decides he doesn't care. He discovers that she can't marry him because she is still married to a man she hasn't seen in a long time. Leo locates her husband, only to find that he has died, and he proposes. When Ben is conflicted over having sex with Adrian, Betty offers to listen to his problems, but Ben rudely turns her away, telling her he doesn't need advice from a prostitute. She is hurt, but soon bounces back. When Ben sincerely apologizes for his outburst, she assures him that she has already forgotten it, and goes on to encourage Ben to act on his feelings. Betty and Leo are married in a lavish wedding with Ben inviting all his friends to celebrate. Betty clumsily but earnestly attempts to console Adrian after the loss their baby. In season 4 she decides that she realizes that Leo is not happy and tells him she wants a divorce and wants to go to college. In one of the last episodes of the season her mother dies and while awaiting a flight on her soon-to-be ex-husband's private jet she is approached by a divorce lawyer.


=== Robert "Bob" Underwood ===
Bryan Callen portrays Robert "Bob" Underwood, Ricky's biological father who has been to jail for drugs and child molestation. In Season 1 during one episode he comes back to find Ricky, and wants to sell Ricky and Amy's baby. Later, he is caught with drugs and sent back to prison.


=== Margaret Shakur ===
L. Scott Caldwell portrays Margaret Shakur, Ricky's foster mother and John Juergens' foster grandmother. Margaret and her husband love Ricky as their own, and are proud to be his parents. Later, Margaret and Sanjay have dinner with Anne and George to discuss Ricky's custody case, and expressing a desire to be a part of John's life. Margaret helped Adrian with her decision about whether or not to terminate her unplanned pregnancy. Later, Ricky's birth mother, Nora, moves in with Margaret and Sanjay when starting her life over, and they have become good friends. Margaret decides to take in one of Ricky's former foster brothers, Ethan, who ends up in juvenile detention after sexting nude pictures of an underage girl to his friends when she breaks up with him. Because of overcrowding in juvenile detention, Ethan will return to live with Margaret.


=== Cindy Lee Enriquez ===
Paola Turbay portrays Cindy Lee, Adrian's mother. Cindy got pregnant with Adrian as a teenager on purpose because she wanted the love of a baby, but her guilt of trapping Ruben Enriquez, Adrian's father, into being a father caused her to keep Ruben out of their lives. She raised Adrian alone and worked as a flight attendant; causing her to be away from home a lot. At the start of the show, she and George Jurgens had an affair that ended around the time George found out about Amy's pregnancy. She was also unaware of Adrian's affairs and her moniker as the "school slut" until Ruben told her. Despite this, Cindy continues to work, leaving Adrian alone, where Adrian continues to have sex. Cindy and Ruben later reunite after he leaves his wife, and she declines a job promotion in New York so they can marry. After a minor case of cold feet, Cindy and Ruben decide to marry the day before Leo and Betty's wedding in a judge's office. Much to Cindy's consternation, Ruben's mother has sent a completely inappropriate wedding dress to wear — an ugly red, flouncy dress several sizes too large. After a moment of anger, Cindy shrugs and she and Ruben are married, with Adrian as a witness. When Adrian reveals that she's pregnant, Cindy tells her daughter that she will stand behind Adrian, whether or not she decides to have an abortion. This spawns an argument between her and Ruben since he's Catholic. They later make up and support Adrian's decision to have the baby. Cindy and her husband are present for Adrian and Ben's wedding, and she later tries to comfort her daughter after the baby's stillbirth.


=== Ruben Enriquez ===
Philip Anthony-Rodriguez portrays Ruben Enriquez, Adrian's father and the ex-boyfriend of Cindy. He was not involved with Adrian during her childhood years because he and Cindy made a deal not to see each other. When Adrian eventually finds him, Ruben tells Adrian he wants nothing do with her, but later decides to help her turn her life around for the better. Ruben is an Assistant District Attorney and is married for the third time. Adrian is his second biological child (he has a biological son in Mexico), however, he has two stepsons. For confidentiality reasons, he could not tell Adrian that he had known the truth about Ricky having been sexually abused. He and Cindy marry before a judge, "Fast Eddy", the day before Leo and Betty marry. When his daughter becomes pregnant, Ruben strongly objects to the idea of her having an abortion. This causes conflict between Ruben and his wife, who supports Adrian's decision. Adrian chose to keep the baby, and Ruben couldn't have been happier. When Adrian's daughter, later named "Mercy" is born stillborn, he blames himself for pushing Adrian to keep the baby instead of having an abortion.


=== Rev. Sam Stone ===
Tom Virtue portrays Rev. Sam Stone, Jack's stepfather and the minister at the local church. Jack told him why Grace thinks her father has died. He tried, unsuccessfully, to make Grace see that she and Jack having sex had nothing to with her father's death. He also helped Amy find couples to adopt her unborn baby (John) when she was pregnant. After offered a job at his alma mater in Phoenix, Arizona as the head of the Philosophy department, he gives up the church and moves with his wife, leaving Jack to complete his senior year. He makes a cameo appearance to marry Ben and Adrian.


=== Griffin ===
Brando Eaton portrays Griffin, who is in 9th grade like Ashley, and is her friend. He and Ashley clicked as friends when he asked her to sit with him at lunch. After she asks him if all he wants is to have sex with her, Griffin tells Ashley that he is gay. George likes Griffin after meeting him because Ashley did not pick a guy friend who only wants her for sex. It's revealed that his two older brothers are also gay. He fixes Ashley up with his cousin, Grant, and brings his date, Michael, to Leo and Betty's wedding. After Ashley uses Grant, Griffin decides to introduce him to Grace Bowman. In return, Grace introduces Griffin to Peter, a guy she knew from church, and it was an instant connection for both couples.


=== Grant ===
Grant Harvey portrays Grant, Griffin's awkward but engaging cousin, who is not gay and is interested in Ashley. He is put up to a blind date with Ashley by Griffin, and finds himself attracted to her. At first, George isn't concerned, thinking that since Grant is related to Griffin, he must be gay, too. He is taken aback to discover that Grant is not gay, but decides to trust Ashley not to make the same mistake that Amy did. He wants to have sex with Ashley. After a party held by Leo and Ben, Grant finds interest in Grace, and is now dating her. He and Grace stay abstinent through their summer at Med Camp, and have sex after school starts when Grant's parents are out of town. Grant then told Grace that he loved her. Later, Grant's parents come to the Bowman-Tseguay residence and it is found that Grant's father is quite old, but charms the hearts of both Grace and Kathleen.


=== Katelyn O'Malley ===
Beverley Mitchell portrays Katelyn O'Malley.  Katelyn is the most recent school guidance counselor. It is revealed in season 4 that like Ben and Adrian, she lost a child when her baby died of SIDS. She also explains that her marriage fell apart as well when her husband became an alcoholic.


=== Dylan ===
Dylan is introduced during the graduation party. Henry points her out and Ben goes after her. Dylan's parents are very protective over her and it takes a while for them to be convinced that it is okay for them to date. Ben's father and Dylan's parents catch Dylan and her friends smoking pot in Ben's room. They are then forbidden to see each other. After some convincing they are allowed to go out again but they accidentally burn down Dylan's school, and they are forbidden to see each other again. Even though her friend, Wendy, told her that she overheard Ben telling Amy that he still loves her, she still wants to date Ben. They come up with this idea that her parents could meet Henry and pretend to go out with Henry, but instead meet Ben. Ben's father finds out and forbids him from going. At her house, Henry is mad at Ben for sleeping with Alice and plans to make revenge by going out with Dylan for real. So he forces her to stay home and have a real date. Dylan is furious with Henry, but they still kiss. Dylan then finds out that Ben and Alice slept together and doesn't really want to go out with Ben anymore so she gives Henry a chance. She is portrayed by Ana Lucasey.


=== Jesse ===
Austin Stowell portrays Jesse. He became Lauren's boyfriend in season 2. After sleeping at Jack's guest room with Madison and Lauren, Lauren is banned from seeing Jesse. At his graduation party, where he drinks too much, Lauren discovers him sleeping with Madison.


=== Kathy ===
Kathy is portrayed by Cierra Ramirez, introduced in the 100th episode as a new freshman whom Amy mentors as part of a senior project. She got pregnant by her much older ex-boyfriend, and plans on giving her baby girl up for adoption. She is initially wary about talking to Amy because unlike her, she chose to raise a child as a teenager. Kathy eventually opens up to her about her worries on not having friends because of her condition. She currently lives with her grandmother because her parents kicked her out. Kathy explains early on that even though her baby will have an open adoption, she has no plans to be involved in the child's life. She meets Ethan and they start connecting about their histories and even go on a double-date with Amy and Ricky. Their relationship hits a speed bump in the road after Ethan makes a disastrous first impression to the prospective parents, who later tell Kathy to break-up with him. They quickly get back together in the fall season finale. In the holiday special, Kathy goes into labor on Christmas Eve and gives birth to a baby girl on Christmas Day. The adoptive parents name her Hedy.


=== Ethan ===
Played by Michael Grant, Ethan is Ricky's 14-year-old foster brother who ran away from their house a few years after stealing a knife from Margaret and Shaker. He first appears when he gets into trouble for sending naked pictures of his ex-girlfriend to everyone in his contacts, which ultimately lands him in juvenile detention. Margaret decides to take him in again, and forces him to go back to school. In season 4 he is forced to go to summer school and immediately gets into trouble for stealing condoms from the nurse's office. Despite his actions, Ricky still tries to instill sense in him remembering his early days before he met Amy. He begins dating Kathy, who is pregnant with her ex-boyfriend's child. They decide to take their relationship slowly, but Ethan has trouble respecting Kathy's boundaries. Such as when he meets the prospective parents of Kathy's unborn daughter, and asks rude and personal questions about them. Kathy breaks up with him when her prospective parents think he is too unstable to be around. Ethan later confides to Kathy that his parents disown him when he was a kid, causing his distrust in adults. After meeting Kathy, Ethan tries several times to get advice from Ben on how to be a good boyfriend to someone who is having a child with another guy, but Ben shows no interest in helping him. In the episode "Holly Rollers", he is shown to be a talented piano player. Then he and Amy start getting closer and closer while Amy and Ricky get farther.


== Minor characters ==
The following is a list of characters that appear on the show, but usually do not add to the overall plot or story line of the series.


=== Mrs. Virginia Molina ===
Constance Marie portrays Mrs. Virginia Molina, Mr. Molina's new wife. They are expecting a baby around the same time as Amy. She shows up at Amy's baby shower after being invited by Joe.


=== John Juergens Underwood ===
Amy and Ricky's now three-year-old son whom they conceived on a night at band camp when Amy was a freshman and Ricky was a sophomore in high school. Ashley (Amy's sister) is the one who suggested John's name because "his life was going to be complicated already, so we might as well give him an easy name." His birthday is 06/06/09. His parents Amy and Ricky break apart from their marriage plans and Amy goes to college, leaving Ricky as a single father.


=== Mrs. Stone ===
Kristin Bauer van Straten portrays Mrs. Stone, Jack's mother. She met her second husband at grief counseling. Her voice is heard once yelling at Jack when he throws a football into the window. She and her husband tell Jack about his new job in Arizona, requiring Jack to find a new place to live to prevent him from relocating during his senior year.
And at one of the last episodes of 2012 she shows up at the last few minutes of the show to pray while Jack lies in his hospital room comatose.


=== Peter ===
Kristopher Higgins portrays Peter, who is introduced in the Season 3 episode "Chicken Little". Peter becomes a love interest for Griffin when Grace sets them up believing Peter is gay. After talking with both his father and Griffin, Peter comes out as gay, and pursues a relationship with Griffin.


=== Mercedes ===
Katelyn Tarver portrays Mercedes, who is one of the friends of Dylan, Raven, and Wendy. Her first appearance was in Smokin' Like a Virgin, although she was probably at Dylan's party (before everyone ended up at the cabin next door, where Jesse and everyone else from the main cast was). She went over to Ben's house with Dylan and she smoked pot because she was depressed after her mother died and her mother had a prescription.


== References ==

ONE 162: Zhang vs. Di Bella was a combat sport event produced by ONE Championship that took place on October 21, 2022 at the Axiata Arena in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.


== Background ==
The event marked the promotion's 17th visit to Kuala Lumpur and first since ONE: Mark of Greatness in December 2019. The event was first time in the two years the organization has hosted an event outside Singapore.
A ONE Strawweight Kickboxing World Championship bout for the vacant title between Zhang Peimian and Jonathan Di Bella headlined the event. Former champion Sam-A Gaiyanghadao announced retired from international competition after returning to Thailand from Singapore and where he had coached at Evolve MMA.
Former Glory Welterweight Champion Nieky Holzken and former ONE Lightweight World Championship challenger Islam Murtazaev were previously scheduled to meet in a lightweight kickboxing bout at ONE: X, but Murtazaev pulled out from the card due to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, all Russian athletes were removed from the card as a result of the Singaporean government banning them from entering the country and the bout was postponed to this date. In turn, Holzken withdrew from the bout due to an injured and was replaced by Constantin Rusu.
A flyweight muay thai bout between Chorfah Tor.Sangtiennoi and Denis Purić was scheduled to take place at the event. However, Chorfah withdraw due to has sustained an injury during training at the Sangtiennoi Camp and was replaced by Tagir Khalilov.
At the weigh-ins, Tagir Khalilov, Constantin Rusu and Gustavo Balart all failed hydration test and were forced to take catchweights. Khalilov weighed in at 137.5 lbs, 2.5 pounds over the limit, Balart came in at 130.75 lbs, 5.75 lbs over the strawweight limit, and Rusu at 173.25 lbs, 3.25 pounds over the limit.


== Results ==


== Bonus awards ==
The following fighters received $50,000 bonuses.

Performance of the Night: Eko Roni Saputra


== See also ==

2022 in ONE Championship
List of ONE Championship events
List of current ONE fighters


== References ==

The 1994 ICF World Junior Canoe Slalom Championships were the 5th edition of the ICF World Junior Canoe Slalom Championships. The event took place in Wausau, Wisconsin, United States from 28 to 31 July 1994 under the auspices of the International Canoe Federation (ICF).
Seven medal events took place. No medals were awarded for the C2 team event.


== Medal summary ==


=== Men ===


==== Canoe ====


==== Kayak ====


=== Women ===


==== Kayak ====


== Medal table ==


== References ==


== External links ==
International Canoe Federation

Igor Araújo (born 6 December 1980) is a Brazilian professional mixed martial artist currently competing in the Welterweight division. A professional competitor since 2004, Araújo has formerly competed for the UFC, M-1 Global, Shooto, KSW, and was a contestant on The Ultimate Fighter: Team Carwin vs. Team Nelson.


== Background ==
Originally from Brasília, Brazil, Araújo competed in football until the age of 19 when he began turning his focus to mixed martial arts. Araújo also holds an accomplished background in Brazilian jiu-jitsu; Araújo is a black belt and has won numerous titles in the sport including the European and Brazilian championships.


== Mixed martial arts career ==


=== Early career ===
Araújo made his professional MMA debut in 2004 and compiled a record of 23-6 before invited to compete on The Ultimate Fighter: Team Carwin vs. Team Nelson.


=== The Ultimate Fighter ===
Araújo defeated Cortez Coleman in the entry round via triangle choke submission in a "sudden death" overtime and was picked 13th overall by Team Carwin.
Araújo defeated Nic Herron-Webb in the quarterfinals via majority decision. Araújo then faced eventual season winner Colton Smith in the semifinals, and was defeated via unanimous decision.


=== Ultimate Fighting Championship ===
Araújo made his official debut at UFC Fight Night 29 on 9 October 2013 against Ildemar Alcântara. Araújo won via unanimous decision.
Araújo made his next appearance on 8 March 2014 at UFC Fight Night 37 against Danny Mitchell. Araújo won via unanimous decision.
Araújo faced George Sullivan on 13 September 2014 at UFC Fight Night 51 on 13 September 2014. Araújo lost via knockout in the second round.
Araújo faced Sean Strickland on 15 July 2015 at UFC Fight Night 71. He lost the fight by unanimous decision. Some months after this loss, he was cut from the UFC.


== Mixed martial arts record ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Igor Araujo at UFC
Professional MMA record for Igor Araujo from Sherdog

Ouled Khodeïr is a district in Béchar Province, Algeria. It was named after its capital, Ouled Khodeïr. According to the 2008 census, the total population of the district was 7,438 inhabitants. The Oued Saoura runs from northwest to southeast through the district, and empties into Sebkhel el Melah, also in the district, after a brief excursion into Adrar Province. The N6 national highway also runs through the district on the way from Béchar to Adrar, Algeria.


== Municipalities ==
The district is further divided into 2 municipalities:

Ouled Khodeïr
Ksabi


== References ==

Casacalenda–Guardalfiera railway station (Italian: Stazione di Casacalenda–Guardalfiera) is the railway station serving the municipalities of Casacalenda and Guardalfiera, Italy. It is situated in the centre of Casacalenda.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Casacalenda-Guardialfiera train station at Wikimedia Commons

St Wilfrid's Cantley is a Grade II* listed church in Doncaster in South Yorkshire, England, and serves as the parish church for the areas of Cantley, Bessacarr and Branton. It is a traditionalist Anglo-Catholic church within the Church of England.


== History ==
The church dates from 1257, though substantial changes have been made since that time. The west tower was added during the fourteenth century. Two significant restorations took place in the late nineteenth century during the tenures of the Reverend William Eardley (1870–1892) and Father William Meaburn Tatham (1892–1938). The first was overseen by George Gilbert Scott in 1874, and the second by the eminent ecclesiastical architect Sir Ninian Comper in 1894. The work of these two architects restored the medieval interior of the church which had been lost in the period following the English Reformation. The result is Comper's finest and most complete work in the region, comprising a free standing altarpiece and reredos, canopy, hanging pyx, various statues and stained glass windows. A large and highly decorated rood screen and rood are also the work of Comper.
In 1989, owing to the increasing size of the congregation, an extension was built on the north side of the church building, almost doubling it in size.


== William Meaburn Tatham ==
Tatham was Vicar of Cantley for 46 years from 1892 until his death on 18 October 1938. Born on 30 July 1862 in Great Ryburgh into a wealthy Norfolk family closely associated with the Catholic Revival in the Church of England, Tatham was educated at Marlborough College and Brasenose College, Oxford. A keen sportsman throughout his life, Tatham competed at the Wimbledon Championships of 1882, being defeated in the first round by the celebrated champion, Ernest Renshaw. After attending theological college at Cuddesdon, Oxford, he was ordained deacon in 1885 at the age of 23 and served his title in the parish of St Saviour's Church, Folkestone working among the poor. Tatham began his second curacy at St Agnes, Kennington Park in 1890, before leaving two years later to be presented to the living of Cantley in the then Diocese of York, later Sheffield, on 14 December 1892. Having been influenced by the Oxford Movement as an undergraduate, Tatham established St Wilfrid's firmly in the Catholic tradition, facing much opposition and courting the displeasure of his diocesan bishops, none of whom ever consented to visit the parish during his incumbency.
During the Boer War (1899–1902) Tatham served as an Army chaplain. He was married on 14 January 1886 to Miss Louisa Valetta Buller at St Matthias, Earl's Court by the Bishop of Lincoln and prominent Anglo-Catholic, Edward King. Mrs Tatham outlived her husband by six months.


== Present day ==
Since the time of Tatham St Wilfrid's has been part of the Anglo-Catholic movement in the Church of England and is a parish of The Society under the patronage of St Wilfrid and St Hilda. The population of the parish expanded greatly in the post-war period and currently stands at 14,063. The Church is also associated with the group Forward in Faith and receives alternative episcopal oversight from the Bishop of Beverley (currently Stephen Race).


== Organ ==
The organ dates from 1905 and was installed by John Compton. A specification of the organ can be found on the National Pipe Organ Register.


== References ==

Isma Mugulusi (born 10 October 2003) is a Ugandan professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Uganda Premier League Club Uganda Revenue Authority SC and the Uganda national team.


== Personal life ==
Isma's older brother Ibrahim is also a footballer.


== Club career ==
Mugulusi returned to the Uganda Premier League in 2024 from Makedonikos in Greece and FK Riteriai in Lithuania. He has been playing in Europe since 2022.


== Honours ==
Uganda U20

Africa U-20 Cup of Nations runner-up: 2021


== References ==

From the late 1980s to the mid-2000s, Alianza Islámica was the largest and most influential Latino Muslim organization in the United States. It was co-founded in New York City's Spanish Harlem by three Puerto Rican Muslims: John (Yahya) Figueroa, Ramon (Rahim) Ocasio, and Freddie (Ibrahim) Gonzalez, who all lived within five blocks of each other.


== History ==
Figueroa, Ocasio, and Gonzalez all came of age during the tumultuous 1960s and early 1970s. As teenagers, they became associated with the militant Young Lords during that organization's heyday in New York City. Ocasio, Figueroa, and Gonzalez participated in organizations affiliated with the Party.
After ending their association with the YLP, Figueroa and Ocasio briefly joined the Nation of Islam breakaway group The Five-Percent Nation. 
Between late 1972 and mid-1973, all three of the future founders converted to Islam. In 1975, Figueroa, Ocasio, and Gonzalez joined the Islamic Party of North America, a Washington, D.C.–based Muslim organization. It was the United States' first constitutionally-based indigenous Islamic organization. With an emphasis on disciplined, coordinated activism, the Islamic Party expressed Islam through civic engagement and addressed problems of poverty and social and economic injustice.
Ocasio moved to IPNA's Washington headquarters and was eventually elected to that branch's Guidance Council. Meanwhile, Figueroa and Gonzalez continued the Party's work in New York. Ocasio rejoined Figueroa and Gonzalez in New York City in 1978. What followed were years of dawah (Islamic proselytizing) and attempts at organizing, which met with limited success.  
In 1986, the trio collaborated on a successful event at the Museo del Barrio on Fifth Avenue in New York entitled "Reclamado Nuestra Herencia Islamica" (Reclaiming Our Islamic Heritage). There, they met Daniel Ahmad Mena from Florida and Carl Askia Al Amin from Chicago, who, along with Figueroa, Ocasio, and Gonzalez, formed the first iteration of Alianza Islamica. A virtual, three-city partnership, it most notable accomplishment was its eponymous journal, the first bilingual Islamic periodical ever published in the United States. Logistical problems, however, led to the organization's dissolution after nearly two years.
In the late 1980s, Figueroa and Ocasio discussed establishing a Barrio-based storefront center inspired by the Mosque of Islamic Brotherhood's tea room of the 1970s. The center would aim to be a calmer and non-intimidating environment,  in contrast to the alienation of high pressure proselytizing.
Meanwhile, Figueroa's work with recovering addicts led to a sizable number of converts and the first Muslim recovery group, Brothers in Recovery. With these new Muslims at its core, Figueroa and Ocasio decided to resurrect Alianza Islamica. A storefront was secured at 1717 Lexington Avenue, near 107th Street, in El Barrio, Spanish Harlem.
Though Alianza Islamica's priority was to spread of the message of Islam, a more holistic approach was advanced to best serve its disadvantaged community. To that end, Alianza developed GED and ESL programs as well as programs on health and nutrition, employment assistance, and drug counseling. A significant number of spousal abuse cases, primarily in marriages between Latina women and Arab men, prompted Alianza Islamica also to take action in and initiate a counseling program in this area.
At a time when Muslim institutions treated their fellow Muslims who died of AIDS/HIV as pariahs, Alianza became the first Islamic organization to ritually wash the bodies of Muslims who had died of the disease. Alianza Islamic also conducted outreach programs to educate Muslims and non-Muslims alike on AIDS/HIV.
To dispel the spectre of the alien, Alianza embarked on Islamizing Latino cultural elements. At religious holidays such as Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha, lamb and chicken replaced pork in traditional dishes, and congas and "guitarras" created a soundtrack authentically Muslim and Latino.
Alianza Islamica cleared drug dealers from the neighborhood on at least two occasions. On the second occasion, the owner of a building across the street offered Alianza Islamica a new location in return for their assistance with ridding his building of drug dealers from the notorious Jamaican Posse. Alianza used the opportunity to establish La Mezquita del Barrio, the first Latino Muslim mosque on the East Coast, and possibly the nation.
After Alianza cleared the drug dealers from the area, the landlord initiated eviction proceedings against Alianza. After its removal from the premises, Alianza resettled at 287 Alexander Avenue in the South Bronx. The organization disbanded shortly after a fire destroyed their building in 2005. 


== Post Alianza Islamica ==
Ibrahim Gonzalez went on to be a musician, activist, and television and radio personality known primarily for his popular radio show on WBAI. He died in his sleep in 2013 at age 57.
After 30 years on the railroad, Figueroa devoted himself to drug counseling and writing and lecturing on Alianza Islamica's legacy and Islam's spiritual dimension.
Ocasio also ended his railroad career after 35 years and settled to a life of writing, lecturing, and spending time on the family farm.
In 2021, Rahim Ocasio with Juan Jose Galvan announced their book project, Alianza Islamica: Spanish Harlem’s Islamic Odyssey.


== See also ==

Latino Muslims
Black Muslims
Islam in the United States
Latin American Muslims
Latino American Dawah Organization


== References ==


== External links ==
Alianza Islamica website.
Alianza Islamica: The True Story

Kaian (Kayan) is a Ramu language of Kaian village (4.054465°S 144.736539°E﻿ / -4.054465; 144.736539﻿ (Kaian)) in Yawar Rural LLG, Madang Province, Papua New Guinea.


== Phonology ==

/p t k/ are aspirated preceding a vowel.
/k/ is heard as [ʔ] word-finally or preceding another plosive.
/dʒ/ can be pronounced [ʒ] or [z] by some speakers.
/r/ is voiceless [r̥] word-finally.

Additionally, the following diphthongs have been observed: /ai/, /au/, /ae/, /ao/, /ea/, /ia/, /iu/, /oa/, /oi/, /ou/, /ua/.
Stress is always found on the antepenultimate syllable. On shorter words, stress falls on the initial syllable.


== References ==

Breaking the Real Axis of Evil: How to Oust the World's Last Dictators by 2025 is a 2003 book by Mark Palmer, the former United States ambassador to Hungary.  In the book, Palmer recounts the life histories of the world's remaining dictators, their vulnerabilities, and strategies for removing them from power, usually through non-violent means.  He asserts that the world's dictators are the cause of terrorism and poverty in the Middle East and Africa, and are the "major security threat to [the United States], their neighbors, and the world."


== The Forty-Five Least Wanted ==
In this chapter, Palmer profiles each of what he sees are the world's 45 remaining dictators, separating them into groups. He argues the list should be similar to the FBI's Ten Most Wanted Fugitives and that it should be updated annually.


== References ==

Carlos Alberto Martínez Martínez (18 July 1885 – 9 March 1972) was a Chilean trade unionist, typographer and socialist politician.
He served as Deputy between 1933 and 1938, later becoming Minister of Lands and Colonization under Presidents Juan Esteban Montero, Arturo Puga Osorio and Pedro Aguirre Cerda, and as Senator from 1939 to 1961.


== Biography ==


=== Family and early life ===
He was born in Santiago on 18 July 1885, the son of Pedro and Gabriela Martínez. His grandson Gutenberg Martínez later became a prominent Christian Democrat politician.
Martínez received only elementary schooling and began working at age 12 in a timber yard. After a work accident he joined the “Imprenta Universo”, where he spent more than twenty years learning lithography, bookbinding and linotyping. He later ran his own printing shop until 1944.  
He contributed to workers’ newspapers such as La Reforma (Santiago), El Trabajo (Tocopilla) and El Despertar (Iquique), and directed the official publication of the Workers' Federation of Chile (FOCh; Federación Obrera de Chile).
He married Rosa Klein, with whom he had six children.


=== Union and political beginnings ===
Martínez was one of the founders of Chile’s early labor movement, helping organize the first printers’ union and the Graphic Federation in 1903. He played a leading role in establishing the FOCh and mutual aid societies such as “Igualdad y Trabajo.”
A follower of Luis Emilio Recabarren, he helped found the Social Republican Party (1925), and later the Unión Social Republicana de Asalariados de Chile (USRACH), serving as its president until 1928. During the dictatorship of Carlos Ibáñez del Campo he was exiled to Tierra Amarilla.  
In 1931 he joined Nueva Acción Pública (NAP) and in 1933 became one of the founders of the Socialist Party of Chile.


=== Government service ===
He held several ministerial posts in the 1930s:

Minister of Lands and Colonization under Vice President Juan Esteban Montero (August–September 1931);
the same position in the short-lived Socialist Republic of Chile under Arturo Puga Osorio (June 1932);
and again under President Pedro Aguirre Cerda (December 1938 – September 1939).


=== Legislative career ===
He was elected Deputy for Santiago in 1933 and reelected in 1937, serving on the Interior Government Committee and a special commission investigating the Braden Copper Company.
In 1939 he entered the Senate for the 1st Provincial District (Tarapacá and Antofagasta), completing the 1937–1945 term.
He was reelected Senator for the 3rd Provincial District (Aconcagua and Valparaíso) for 1945–1953 and again for 1953–1961, serving as Senate Vice President (April–November 1958).
Among his legislative initiatives were:

inclusion of photogravers in the social security system (Law No. 6,221 of 1938);
flood-control works on the Aconcagua River (Law No. 7,037 of 1941);
and funding for the Public Assistance Building in Santiago (Law No. 11,054 of 1952).
He also served as Senatorial representative to the CORFO and the Maritime Workers’ Fund.


=== Later years and death ===
In 1969 he helped found the Independent Popular Action (API), which joined the Popular Unity coalition supporting President Salvador Allende.  
Martínez died in Santiago on 9 March 1972 at age 86.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Anales de la República, Biblioteca del Congreso Nacional de Chile.
Historia Política de Chile y su Evolución Electoral desde 1810 a 1992, Germán Urzúa Valenzuela, Editorial Jurídica de Chile, Santiago, 1992.


== External links ==
BCN Profile

Yŏnt‘an County is a county in North Hwanghae province, North Korea.


== Name ==
The name Yontan means "a fast stream like a swallow", which refers to the river that is fast that exists in the region.


== History ==
The county was newly created in 1952 from Myons from Hwangju County, Suan County and Sŏhŭng County.After Hwanghae Province was divided into North and south in 1954, the region became a county of North Hwanghae Province.


== Administrative divisions ==
Yŏnt‘an county is divided into 1 ŭp (town) and 16 ri (villages):


== Religion ==
Due to the atheistic policy of North Korea, it is hard to find the demographics of the area. Before 1945, the region had a catholic parish called the Hwangju parish that was founded in 1902 and extinct in 1919.


== Industry ==
The county currently cultivates Choke berries(called Tannamu(단나무)) since 1985(at the period of the 40th anniversary of the founding of the WPK). The region also artificially incubates eggs of Common pheasants, since the hunting of the birds were popular in the region. In 2023, North Korean government completed the construction of the Hwangju Kindung waterway project that covers the area. In January 2025, it was announced that a new factory was built in the region.


== Geography and geology ==
The county has a lake called Yontan lake, which was artificially created by blocking the upstream of the Hwangju river in 1974. The lake is connected to the Yesong river and Sohung lake in nearby Sohung County. The region has a lot of mountainous ranges, such as the Eonjin and Jongbang mountainous ranges.The county is also known for its waterfall located in the south of the county.


== Notable places ==
Simwonsa:Buddhist temple built in the Goryeo dynasty
Goguryeo tombs of Songjung-ri
The Yontan Odok-ri goindol: A Bronze Age dolmen located  in the region. The excavation and inspection of the site was conducted in 1971.


== References ==

Historikill: 1995–2007 is a compact disc box set by thrash metal band Overkill, which was released on October 16, 2015. The originally planned release date was September 18, 2015. The box set spans the years from 1995 to 2007, including seven of the original seventeen Overkill albums from The Killing Kind (1996) to Immortalis (2007), two of their live albums (Wrecking Your Neck and Wrecking Everything), one of their compilation albums (Hello from the Gutter: The Best of Overkill), the covers album Coverkill and a bonus disc featuring demos, remixes and one cover song. The albums are placed in chronological order, although Wrecking Everything was released three months before the Hello from the Gutter compilation album.


== Track listing ==
All songs were written by Bobby "Blitz" Ellsworth and D.D. Verni except where noted.


== References ==

Virgil Dorin Gligor (born July 30, 1949) is a Romanian-American professor of electrical and computer engineering who specializes in the research of network security and applied cryptography.


== Education and career ==
Gligor was born in Zalău and lived in Bucharest, Romania, until his late teens. He received his high school degree and baccalaureate at the Gheorghe Lazăr National College. After completing the first year as a student in the Faculty of Automatic Control and Computer Science at Politehnica University of Bucharest, he earned a national scholarship to study in the United States, where he received his B.Sc., M.Sc., and Ph.D. degrees from the University of California at Berkeley. While a graduate student he was a Lecturer in EECS at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Between 1976 and 2007 he taught at the University of Maryland, College Park, and since 2008 he has been a Professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU). Until 2015, he was also the co-director of CyLab, CMU’s security and privacy research institute. He was a visiting professor at University of Cambridge, UK, ETH Zurich and EPF Lausanne in Switzerland, SMU in Singapore, and a long-time consultant to Burroughs and IBM corporations. He served on Microsoft’s Trusted Computing Academic Advisory Board and SAP’s Security Advisory Board. He has been an advisory board member of several security and privacy institutes including those of Johns Hopkins University and Pennsylvania State University in the US, CISPA Saarbrucken, Germany, and KTH Stockholm, Sweden. 
Gligor co-chaired several conferences and symposia, including the ACM Computer and Communication Security, IEEE Security and Privacy, the Internet Society’s Network and Distributed Systems Security, the IEEE Dependable Computing for Critical Applications, and IEEE-ACM Symposium on Reliability in Distributed Software and Databases. He was an editorial-board member of Information Systems, Journal of Computer Security, ACM Transactions on Information System Security, IEEE Transactions on Computers, IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, and was the Editor in Chief of the IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing.


=== Research ===
Gligor’s research in computer and network security spans over four decades. He began his career with work on the design of protection mechanisms of capability-based systems. In particular, he initiated the area of protection-mechanism verification of complex instruction set architectures and processor security testing.
In the early 1980s, Gligor provided the first precise definition of the denial-of-service (DoS) problem in operating systems
and extended it to network protocols thus helping establish availability as a first-class security concern. He and his students published all DoS research papers during the 1980s, including the Yu-Gligor 
model.  In the mid’ 80s he and Gary Luckenbaugh were the principal designers of the Secure Xenix, which was the first Unix-class commodity operating system to be evaluated at the B2 security level according to the NSA’s TCSEC. He and his students co-designed the first automated tools for storage-channel analysis, penetration analysis for C-language programs, pattern-oriented (i.e., signature-based) intrusion detection tool for Unix systems.
During the 1990s, Gligor co-designed secure message authentication codes  for Kerberos v5 and inter-domain authentication for OSF’s Distributed Computing Environment. His research also led to new formal models of access control, mainly for separation-of-duty and application-oriented policies.  He was the principal author of several security guidelines in NSA’s NCSC Rainbow Series for TCSEC, including those on security testing, trusted facility management, covert channel analysis, and trusted recovery.
In early 2000s, his research focused on lightweight cryptographic schemes and protocols. He is a co-inventor of the first efficient authenticated-encryption scheme in one pass over the data 

and random-key pre-distribution in large sensor networks. The later scheme, which was co-designed with his student L. Eschenauer, gave rise to a uniform random intersection graph, or simply a random key graph. Its k-connectivity and k-robustness are properties of interest in social networks, recommender systems, clustering and classification analysis, circuit design, cryptanalysis of hash functions, trusted and small-world networks, and epidemics modeling. He also co-authored of the first distributed algorithms for detecting sensor-node replication 
attacks.
In the 2010s, Gligor’s research was on trustworthy computer systems and the design of micro-hypervisors, trusted paths, I/O channel isolation, trust establishment for networks of humans and computers, and on protection against distributed denial of service on the Internet. In 2019 he designed the first method for software root of trust establishment in a computer system that is unconditionally secure; i.e., without secrets, trusted hardware modules/tokens, or bounds on the adversary’s computation power.
Most recently, Gligor co-authored the first I/O separation model for formal verification of kernels implementations.
Over the years, Gligor’s research papers received several conference awards.


=== Notable Awards ===
In 1995, Gligor was awarded the Doctor Honoris Causa degree at Universitatea Politehnica. In 2005, he received the 2006 National Information Systems Security Award jointly given by the United States National Security Agency (NSA) and
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) for contributions to access control mechanisms, penetration analysis, denial-of-service protection, cryptographic protocols, and applied cryptography. In 2011, he was awarded the ACM SIGSAC Outstanding Innovation Award for innovations in
secure operating systems as well as covert channel analysis, intrusion detection, and secure wireless
sensor networks. In 2013, he was given Technical Achievement Award by the IEEE Computer Society for his pioneering work and leadership in the area of computer and network security. In 2019 he was inducted in the National Cybersecurity Hall of Fame, and in 2020, together with B.Parno and A. Perrig, he received a Test of Time Award from the IEEE Security an Privacy Symposium for their 2005 work on distributed detection of node replication attacks in sensor networks.


== References ==


== External links ==
Carnegie Mellon University homepage
University of Maryland, Dept. Computer Science, Photo-History page

2023–24 Liga 3 was the seventh season of the Liga 3 under the current name and the eighth season under the current league structure, and the only amateur league football competition in Indonesia. The tournament was organized by Provincial Association of PSSI for the provincial phase and PSSI for the national phase.
Karo United was the champions in the 2021–22 season.
Because Liga 2's previous season along with 2022–23 Liga 3 were abandoned due to a combination of factors with the most notable among them was the Kanjuruhan Stadium disaster, participants of the league remained unchanged from last season.


== Teams changes ==
As the 2022–23 Liga 2 and 2022–23 Liga 3 were abandoned along with the relegation rule which was being scrapped from 2022–23 Liga 1, the league's teams remained unchanged. The following teams changed division after the 2021 season.

Notes


== Rules ==
Here are some rules for the 2023 season:


=== Participating team ===
PSSI member clubs or PSSI member candidate clubs who have completed the registration administration requirements as a member of PSSI and have received approval at the relevant provincial PSSI annual congress.
Registration of participating clubs via the online system SIAP (Sistem Informasi dan Administrasi PSSI).
All clubs participating in Liga 3 2023 compete in the provincial round, there is no pre-national round for the participants of Liga 3 2022–2023 because league was cancelled.
Aspects of football development, enough time lag between one match to another.


=== Player ===
The age of the players is the birth of 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2005, and 7 senior players.
The maximum number of registered players is 30 players.
Minimum trainer licence B PSSI Licence.
The maximum number of registered officials is 10 peoples.
Player registration via online system SIAP (Sistem Informasi dan Administrasi PSSI).


== Teams ==
A total of 436 teams participated in the provincial phase of 2023–24 Liga 3.


== Schedule ==
The schedule of the competition is as follows.


== Provincial Phase ==


=== 2023–24 season ===
These teams will be the representatives from their provincial league to be competing in national phase.

Notes

BOLD: Champions of each provincial league.
Grey background denotes provinces that did not send representative to the national phase.


=== Free slots ===
14 provincial associations received free slots to the national phase based on their performance in the 2022–23 season, as not all provincial associations organised competitions for the provincial phase in the 2022–23 season.

Notes

BOLD: Champions of each provincial league.


== National Phase (Preliminary Round) ==


=== Teams location ===


=== Format ===
A total of 80 teams will be drawn into 16 groups of 5 teams. The preliminary round will be played in single round-robin matches.
16 group winners and 16 runners-up will advance to the second round.


=== Draw ===
The draw was held online via the official PSSI YouTube channel on 26 March 2024. 80 teams divided into 5 zones based on their geographical location. However, 2 teams then decided to withdraw ahead of the national phase.
The following draw mechanism is applied:
1. The 16 host teams are seeded and automatically drawn sequentially into groups A–P.
2. The draw started with zone 1 and ended with zone 5.
3. Teams from the same zone cannot be drawn into the same group.

Note: Bolded teams qualified for the second round.


=== Group A ===
All matches were held at Benteng Reborn Stadium, Tangerang.

Matches


=== Group B ===
All matches were held at Cibinong Mini Stadium, Bogor Regency.

Matches


=== Group C ===
All matches were held at Singaperbangsa Stadium, Karawang Regency and Purnawarman Stadium, Purwakarta Regency.

Matches


=== Group D ===
All matches were held at Persikas Stadium and Lodaya Stadium, Subang Regency.

Matches


=== Group E ===
All matches were held at Siliwangi Stadium, Bandung.

Matches


=== Group F ===
All matches were held at R.A.A. Adiwijaya Stadium, Garut Regency.

Matches


=== Group G ===
All matches were held at Galuh Stadium, Ciamis Regency.

Matches


=== Group H ===
All matches were held at Hoegeng Stadium, Pekalongan.

Matches


=== Group I ===
All matches were held at Wergu Wetan Stadium, Kudus Regency.

Matches


=== Group J ===
All matches were held at Sultan Fatah Stadium, Demak Regency.

Matches


=== Group K ===
All matches were held at Sultan Agung Stadium, Bantul Regency.

Matches


=== Group L ===
All matches were held at Mandala Krida Stadium, Yogyakarta.

Matches


=== Group M ===
All matches were held at Letjen Haji Sudirman Stadium, Bojonegoro Regency.

Matches


=== Group N ===
All matches were held at R. Soedarsono Stadium, Pasuruan Regency.

Matches


=== Group O ===
All matches were held at Canda Bhirawa Stadium, Kediri Regency.

Matches


=== Group P ===
All matches were held at Gajayana Stadium, Malang.

Matches


== National Phase (Second Round) ==
The 32 teams that advanced from the preliminary round were divided into 8 groups of four teams to play single round-robin matches.
8 group winners and 8 runners-up will advance to the third round.


=== Qualified teams ===

Note: Bolded teams qualified for the third round.


=== Group 1 ===
All matches were held at Benteng Reborn Stadium and DM Sport Ciledug, Tangerang.

Matches


=== Group 2 ===
All matches were held at Cibinong Mini Stadium and Outer Field of Pakansari Stadium, Bogor Regency.

Matches


=== Group 3 ===
All matches were held at Siliwangi Stadium and Arcamanik Stadium, Bandung.

Matches


=== Group 4 ===
All matches were held at R.A.A. Adiwijaya Stadium, Garut Regency and Wiradadaha Stadium, Tasikmalaya.

Matches


=== Group 5 ===
All matches were held at Wergu Wetan Stadium, Kudus Regency and Gelora Soekarno Mojoagung Stadium, Pati Regency.

Matches


=== Group 6 ===
All matches were held at Sultan Fatah Stadium, Demak Regency and Citarum Stadium, Semarang.

Matches


=== Group 7 ===
All matches were held at Letjen Haji Sudirman Stadium and Gayam Stadium, Bojonegoro Regency

Matches


=== Group 8 ===
All matches were held at Gajayana Stadium, Malang and Dirgantara Abdulrachman Saleh Stadium, Malang Regency.

Matches


== National Phase (Third Round) ==
The 16 teams that advanced from the second round were divided into 4 groups of four teams to play single round-robin matches. Matches in this round are held at neutral venues.
4 group winners and 4 runners-up will advance to the fourth round.


=== Draw ===
The draw for third round was held on 17 May 2024. The 16 teams were drawn into four groups. 
The following draw mechanism is applied:
1. The 16 teams seeded into two pots based on their performance in second round. Pot 1 contains the group winners and pot 2 contains the runners-up teams of the second round.
2. The teams were drawn into 4 groups. Each group contains two teams from pot 1 and two teams from pot 2. 

Note: Bolded teams qualified for the fourth round.

LN Qualified for the 2024–25 Liga Nusantara.


=== Group 1 ===
All matches were held at Benteng Reborn Stadium and DM Sport Ciledug, Tangerang.

Matches


=== Group 2 ===
All matches were held at Cibinong Mini Stadium and Outer Field of Pakansari Stadium, Bogor Regency.

Matches


=== Group 3 ===
All matches were held at Sultan Agung Stadium, and Dwi Windu Stadium, Bantul Regency.


=== Group 4 ===
All matches were held at Letjen Haji Sudirman Stadium and Gayam Stadium, Bojonegoro Regency.

Matches


== National Phase (Fourth Round) ==
The 8 teams that advanced from the Third round were divided into 2 groups of four teams to play single round-robin matches.
2 group winners will advance to the final. The top three teams from each group will be promoted to the 2024–25 Liga 2.


=== Qualified teams ===

Notes: 

Bolded teams qualified for the final.
P Promoted to the 2024–25 Liga 2.
LN Qualified for the 2024–25 Liga Nusantara.


=== Group 1 ===
All matches will be held at Benteng Reborn Stadium and DM Sport Ciledug, Tangerang.

Matches


=== Group 2 ===
All matches were held at Cibinong Mini Stadium and Outer Field of Pakansari Stadium, Bogor Regency.

Matches


== Final ==

The 2 group winners from the fourth round will play in the final match. The final will be played as a single match. If tied after regulation time, extra time and, if necessary, a penalty shoot-out will be used to decide the winning team.


== Promotion to the 2024–25 Liga 2 ==


== Season Statistics (National Phase) ==


=== Top Goalscorers ===
As of 25 May 2024


== Awards ==


== See also ==
2023–24 Liga 1
2023–24 Liga 2


== Notes ==


== References ==

"As Usual" is a song written by Alex Zanetis and performed by Brenda Lee.  The song is featured on Lee's 1964 album, By Request.


== Chart performance ==
The song reached No.12 on the Billboard Hot 100 and No.5 on the adult contemporary chart in the United States. It reached No.5 on the U.K. singles chart and No.12 on the Australian chart in 1964. 
The single was the 49th best-selling 45 rpm disc of 1964 in the U.K. 


== References ==

"Hometown Girl" is a song recorded by American country music artist Josh Turner.  It was released in May 2016 as the second single from his sixth studio album, Deep South.  The song was written by Marc Beeson and Daniel Tashian.


== Music video ==
The music video was directed by Michael Monaco recorded in Live and acoustic and premiered on CMT, GAC & VEVO in 2016.


== Critical reception ==
The song peaked at number 2 on the Billboard Country Airplay chart dated May 6, 2017, making it Turner's first top 10 single since "Time Is Love" in 2012.


== Commercial performance ==
The song has sold 238,000 copies in the United States as of May 2017. It was certified Platinum on April 23, 2018 for a million units in sales and streams.


== Chart performance ==


=== Year-end charts ===


== Certifications ==


== References ==

Golden Arrow or Golden Arrows may refer to:


== Film ==
Golden Arrow (1935 film), Italian drama
The Golden Arrow (1936 film), American comedy
Golden Arrow (1949 film), British comedy
The Golden Arrow (1962 film), Italian peplum genre adventure


== Sports ==
Golden Arrow (seaplane), 1929 Schneider Trophy racing aircraft; official name Gloster VI
Golden Arrows, South African football club founded 1943; full name Lamontville Golden Arrows F.C.


== Transportation ==
Golden Arrow Bus Services, South African commuter bus operator in Cape Town; founded 1861
Golden Arrow (train), English luxury train which connected London and Dover between 1926 and 1972
Golden Arrow (Pennsylvania Railroad train), American passenger service between 1929 and 1946
Golden Arrow (car), British land speed record racer driven in 1929 by Henry Segrave
Abaris Golden Arrow, home-built aircraft design by Abaris Aircraft planned in 1990s


== Other ==
The Golden Arrow prayer, prayer of Reparation revealed to French Carmelite nun in 1844
"Golden Arrow" (song), 1909 American popular song by Egbert Van Alstyne
The Golden Arrow (novel), 1916 romance by English romantic novelist Mary Webb
Golden Arrow (Scouting), peace symbol presented by Baden-Powell during 3rd World Scout Jamboree in 1929
Golden Arrow (comics), Fawcett Comics character in print from 1940 to 1953
Golden Arrow Award, Japanese accolade presented by Magazine Publishers Association between 1964 and 2008
Golden Arrow (horse)


== See also ==
Arrow (disambiguation)
Black Arrow (disambiguation)
Blue Arrow (disambiguation)
Green Arrow (disambiguation)
Pink Arrow (disambiguation)
Red Arrow (disambiguation)
Silver Arrow (disambiguation)
White Arrow (disambiguation)
Yellow Arrow (disambiguation)

John Bunch (December 1, 1921 – March 30, 2010) was an American jazz pianist.


== Early life ==
Born and raised in Tipton, Indiana, a small farming community, Bunch studied piano with George Johnson, a Hoosier jazz pianist. By the age of 14, he was already playing with adult bands in central Indiana.


== Later life and career ==
During World War II, he enlisted in the Army Air Forces and became a bombardier on a B17 Flying Fortress. He and his ten-man crew were transferred to combat duty in England, flying bombing missions over Germany. His plane was shot down on November 2, 1944, and Bunch was taken prisoner. In the prison camp, he learned to arrange for big bands.
After the war, he applied for university training as a music major, but was refused because he could not sight read classical music. He worked later in factories and insurance. In 1956, he moved to Los Angeles where he immediately was accepted by jazz musicians such as Georgie Auld and Jimmie Rowles, who later recommended him to Woody Herman. He settled in New York in 1958, where he joined Eddie Condon and Maynard Ferguson. He recorded with Ferguson and many smaller groups.
In 1966, Bunch joined Tony Bennett as pianist and musical director, and stayed with the singer until 1972. During that time he appeared on Bennett's 1972 series for Thames Television, Tony Bennett at the Talk of the Town. After that, he resumed his jazz work, performing and recording with Benny Goodman, Buddy Rich, Gene Krupa, Pearl Bailey, and Scott Hamilton. He led a trio, mostly in England, and made many recordings as a leader, such as with the New York Swing Trio with Bucky Pizzarelli and Jay Leonhart.
Bunch remained active in Europe and the United States during his final years. He died of melanoma in Roosevelt Hospital, Manhattan, New York City, on March 30, 2010. He was survived by his wife, Cecily "Chips" Gemmell, a former private secretary to Winston Churchill.


== Discography ==


=== As leader/co-leader ===


=== As sideman ===
With Benny Bailey

The Satchmo Legacy (Enja, 2000)
With Buck Clayton and Tommy Gwaltney's Kansas City 9

Goin' to Kansas City (Riverside, 1960)
With Kenny Davern

Live at the Floating Jazz Festival
The Jazz KENnection
With Maynard Ferguson

A Message from Newport (Roulette, 1958)
With Gene Krupa

The Great New Gene Krupa Quartet Featuring Charlie Ventura (Verve, 1964)
With Donnie O'Brien

Donnie O' Brien Meets Manhattan Swing: In a Basie Mood (Arbors)
With Bucky Pizzarelli

Five for Freddie (Arbors)
With Rex Stewart and Dicky Wells

Chatter Jazz (RCA Victor, 1959)


== References ==


== External links ==
John Bunch discography at Discogs

Simon Rivard is a Canadian conductor, and current music director of the Newfoundland Symphony Orchestra.


== Life and Education ==
Rivard was born in Montréal, Québec. He studied both violin performance and orchestral conducting at the Conservatoire de musique de Montréal and then McGill University. He studied with Raffi Armenian and Alexis Hauser.
In 2018, he was invited to the first Conducting Mentorship Program at the Verbier Festival Academy, where he worked with Gianandra Noseda, Sir Simon Rattle, Gábor Takács-Nagy, Marc Minkowski, and Valery Gergiev, among others. He was subsequently re-invited to work with the Verbier Festival Junior Orchestra in 2022.
He is an alumnus of Barbara Hannigan's Equilibrium Young Artists, a mentorship program for early-career professionals.


== Career ==
From 2018 to 2022, Simon served as the Toronto Symphony Orchestra's Resident Conductor. During this time, he was mentored by Gustavo Gimeno and Sir Andrew Davis. Concurrently, he was the principal conductor of the Toronto Symphony Youth Orchestra, where his contract was extended through to 2024.
He has also held positions with the Thunder Bay Symphony Orchestra (Resident Conductor, 2017–2018), the Toronto Mendelssohn Choir (Associate Conductor, 2020–2022), and Orchestre de la Francophonie as their interim music director in both the summers of 2017 and 2024.
In 2023, Rivard was appointed Edmonton Opera's Music Director, the first in the company's history. With EO, he has conducted Puccini'sTosca and La bohème, Strauss' Die Fledermaus, Bizet's Carmen, Mozart's Don Giovanni, and the Jonathan Dove reductions of both Wagner's Das Rheingold and Siegfried. He also served as the music director on their presentation of Bartók's Bluebeard's Castle, in an English translation by British director Daisy Evans.
As a guest conductor, he has appeared on the podium across Canada, including with Orchestre symphonique de Montréal, Toronto Summer Music Festival, Symphony Nova Scotia, Orchestre symphonique de Laval, Orchestre symphonique de Québec, Orchestre Métropolitain, and Orchestre classique de Montréal. Upcoming, he debuts with the National Arts Centre Orchestra in Ottawa, ON, and made his podium debut with Opéra de Montréal in 2024 with Puccini's La bohème.
In Europe, he has appeared with Sweden's Göteborgs Symfoniker, the Verbier Festival Chamber Orchestra, and most recently, the Lapland Chamber Orchestra.
After an 18-month search, the Newfoundland Symphony Orchestra appointed Rivard as their new music director, beginning in the 2025–2026 season.
Beginning in the 2025–2026 academic year, he began teaching orchestral conducting at Conservatoire de Musique de Montréal.


== References ==


== External links ==
Dean Artists Management biography for Simon Rivard
Official Website for Simon Rivard

Katrynka-Leśniczówka (Polish pronunciation: [kaˈtrɨŋka lɛɕɲiˈtʂufka]) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wasilków, within Białystok County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland.


== References ==

Turning Red is a 2022 American animated coming-of-age film directed by Domee Shi and written by Shi and Julia Cho. Produced by Pixar Animation Studios for Walt Disney Pictures, it marks the first Pixar feature film solely directed by a female director. It stars the voices of Rosalie Chiang, Sandra Oh, Ava Morse, Hyein Park, Maitreyi Ramakrishnan, and Orion Lee. Set in Toronto, Ontario in 2002, the film follows Meilin "Mei" Lee (Chiang), a 13-year-old Chinese-Canadian student who transforms into a giant red panda when she experiences any strong emotion, due to a hereditary curse.
Shi, who previously directed the short film Bao (2018), developed the film based on her experiences growing up in Toronto. She pitched three concepts, including Turning Red, to Pixar in October 2017. Development began in May 2018 when Shi was announced as writer and director of a full-length film; several Pixar animators visited locations around Northern California gathering inspiration and visual references. The design and animation were inspired by anime works. To capture these anime influences, hand-drawn 2D animated effects were added atop Pixar's 3D animation. Development on Turning Red lasted for four years, on an approximate $175 million budget, becoming the fastest production for a Pixar film. Ludwig Göransson composed the film's musical score for his first animated film, with Billie Eilish and Finneas O'Connell writing original songs for the film.
Turning Red was first shown in London at Everyman Borough Yards on February 21, 2022, as a special screening, in Toronto at TIFF Bell Lightbox on March 8, and at the El Capitan Theatre in Los Angeles on March 1. Originally planned for a worldwide theatrical release, plans were changed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The film was released on March 11, 2022, on the Disney+ streaming service and was released theatrically in most countries without the streaming service, grossing over $21 million. It was paired with the short film Kitbull for its theatrical release in the United States and the United Kingdom on February 9, 2024. Turning Red received critical acclaim and was nominated for Best Animated Feature at the 95th Academy Awards, among numerous other accolades.


== Plot ==
In 2002 Toronto, 13-year-old Meilin "Mei" Lee lives with her parents, Ming and Jin, helps take care of the family's temple dedicated to her maternal ancestor Sun Yee, and works to make her mother proud. She hides her personal interests from Ming, such as the fact that she and her friends Miriam, Priya, and Abby are fans of the boy band 4*Town. One night when Ming, who is strict and overprotective, discovers Mei's crush on Devon, the 17-year-old local convenience store clerk, she inadvertently humiliates Mei in public.
That night, Mei has a vivid nightmare involving red pandas;  waking up the next morning, she finds that she has transformed into one. She hides from her parents and discovers that she transforms only when she is in a state of high emotion. When Mei reverts to human form, her hair remains red, and so she goes to school in a touque. Ming initially believes Mei is experiencing her first period, but learns the truth when she gets into an altercation with the school's security guard, causing Mei to transform from embarrassment and run home in panic and tears.
Ming and Jin explain that Sun Yee was granted this transformation to protect her daughters and her village during wartime, and that all her female descendants have also had this ability. This has become inconvenient and dangerous in modern times, so the red panda spirit must be sealed in a talisman by a ritual on the night of a lunar eclipse, which will take place in a month's time. Mei's friends discover her transformation, but take a liking to it. Mei finds that concentrating on them enables her to control her transformations.
Ming allows Mei to resume her normal life, but refuses to let Mei attend 4*Town's upcoming concert. Instead, the girls secretly raise money for the tickets at school by exploiting the popularity of Mei's red panda form while lying to Ming about how Mei is spending her time. To raise the last 200 dollars, Mei agrees to attend school bully Tyler's birthday party as the red panda. Before Mei leaves, Mei's grandmother and aunts arrive to assist with Mei's ritual. At the party, Mei is upset to discover that the concert will be on the night she is to undergo the ritual. In her rage, she attacks Tyler when he insults her family, frightening the other kids. Ming discovers Mei's activities and blames Mei's friends for everything. Mei fails to come to her friends' defense to maintain Ming's approval.
While cleaning, Jin finds videos Mei recorded of herself as the red panda with her friends and tells her she should not be ashamed of this side of her, but to embrace it. During the ritual, as Mei's red panda form is about to be sealed, she decides to keep her powers and abandons the ritual to attend the concert at the SkyDome. In making her escape, she breaks Ming's talisman, releasing her red panda form as well. At the concert, Mei reconciles with her friends and Tyler. However, an enraged Ming, having become a kaiju-sized red panda, disrupts the concert while intending to take Mei back by force.
Mei and Ming argue about the former's independence. As they fight, Mei accidentally knocks her mother unconscious. Mei's grandmother and aunts break their talismans to use their red panda forms to help drag Ming into a new ritual circle. Mei's friends and 4*Town join in singing to complete the ritual, sending Mei, Ming, and the other women to the astral plane. Mei reconciles with her mother and helps Ming mend her bond with her own mother, whom Ming accidentally scarred in anger in the past. The other women contain their red pandas in new talismans; Mei decides to keep hers, Ming accepting that she is finding her own path.
Sometime after the incident, now named "Pandapocalypse 2002", the Lee family raises money to repair the damage to the SkyDome. Mei and Ming's relationship has improved. Mei balances her temple duties (where her red panda form is now an attraction) and spends time with her friends and Tyler.
In a post-credits scene, Jin is in the basement listening to 4*Town, embracing the memorabilia.


== Voice cast ==

Rosalie Chiang as Meilin "Mei" Lee, a 13-year-old Chinese-Canadian girl who discovers she can transform into a giant anthropomorphic red panda whenever she expresses strong emotions
Sandra Oh as Ming Lee, Mei's strict and overprotective mother
Ava Morse as Miriam Mendelsohn, a singing Jewish Canadian tomboy with braces who is one of Mei's best friends.
Maitreyi Ramakrishnan as Priya Mangal, a mellow and deadpan Indo-Canadian girl who is one of Mei's best friends
Hyein Park as Abby Park, an energetic and aggressive Korean Canadian girl and the shortest of Mei's best friends
Orion Lee as Jin Lee, Mei's quiet yet supportive father
Wai Ching Ho as Wu, Mei's grandmother and Ming's mother
Tristan Allerick Chen as Tyler Nguyen-Baker, Mei's classmate with front teeth braces who initially picks on Mei
James Hong as Mr. Gao, a local elder, shaman, and friend of the Lee family
Addie Chandler as Devon, a local convenience store clerk and Mei's secret crush
Sasha Roiz as Mr. Kieslowski, Mei's high-school teacher at Lester B. Pearson Middle School.
Lily Sanfelippo as Stacy Frick, a British Canadian girl and one of Mei's classmates who sees her red panda form in the restroom
Anne-Marie as Lauren, one of Mei's classmates (UK version)
Mei's aunts (Chen, Ping, Helen and Lily) are voiced by Lori Tan Chinn, Lillian Lim, Sherry Cola and Mia Tagano.
The members of the 4*Town boy band (Robaire, Jesse, Aaron Z., Aaron T. and Tae Young) are voiced by Jordan Fisher, Finneas O'Connell, Josh Levi, Topher Ngo and Grayson Villanueva.


== Production ==


=== Development ===
In 2017, Shi had recently completed the Pixar short Bao when Pixar invited her to pitch three ideas for a full-length film. Her proposed concepts were all coming-of-age stories centered on teenage girls. The one that became Turning Red was based on a girl going through a "magical puberty", which Shi wrote based on her own personal experiences. Shi said, "Everyone has been there. Everyone has been thirteen and feeling like they're turning into some wild, hairy, hormonal beast, and I think that's why Pixar was drawn to it". Shi pitched all three concepts, including Turning Red, to Pixar on October 31, 2017. According to Pixar producer Lindsey Collins, who sat in on Shi's pitch meeting, the Pixar staff were drawn to the Turning Red idea as "it was so clear that Domee had such a sense of who these two main characters were, that Mei and Ming were really clear and special and unique, more than any of the other ideas" and that "she had this really personal experience with these two characters that were kind of versions of her own life. That's like the magic equation, right there". The approach of using more personable stories followed from Luca under Pixar's new chief creative officer Pete Docter's oversight, which shifted the direction the studio took with both storytelling and film production. Brenda Hsueh, writer of the subsequent Pixar film Elemental, worked on the film as a consultant to Shi for the ideas.
The film was developed under the working title of Red. Shi was announced as writer and director of an upcoming Pixar full-length film on May 8, 2018, making her the first woman to solely direct a film in the studio. The film's creative leads were also the first all-female team for Pixar, which Pixar's CEO Jim Morris said "happened very organically" rather than by intent. Rona Liu served as production designer, after doing so for Bao. Liu said that working on a feature film was "a dream come true". By November 26, 2018, Shi confirmed that the film was in the early stages of development, with the story still being worked on, and that "[she is] really excited to play in this new 90-minute film format". The title Turning Red was finalized by December 10, 2020. According to Morris, Turning Red had one of the fastest development times of a Pixar feature film, taking only four years to complete.


=== Casting ===
In 2017, Pixar hired Chiang to provide scratch vocals to support the development of the film. Chiang, then only 12 years old, was selected in part because she was a local child actor conveniently based in nearby Fremont, which is only about 35 miles (56 km) from Pixar's Emeryville headquarters. After two years of development, Shi and Collins reached the point where the film was "solid" enough to start casting professional voice actors. Despite listening to various auditions, the two realized they had already fallen in love with Chiang's scratch vocals and could not envision anyone else playing Mei. They escalated the issue to Pixar chief creative officer Pete Docter, who personally approved the casting of Chiang in the film's lead role.
During an early 2020 recording session, Shi suddenly surprised Chiang with an additional script page where Shi, reading in character as Ming, offered Chiang the role. This session, right before the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States, turned out to be their last one conducted in person. To keep production going, Pixar shipped an enormous amount of professional audio equipment to Chiang, who turned one of the rooms in her parents' house into a makeshift recording studio.
Sandra Oh was Shi's top pick for Ming. Besides the fact that Oh was a fellow Canadian, Shi felt Oh could convey the range of complex emotions they wished to portray in Ming.


=== Design ===


==== Setting ====
The film takes place in Toronto, Ontario, Canada in 2002, as confirmed by a production designer in February 2021. As it takes place through the eyes of a thirteen-year-old girl named Mei Lee, the entire environment has been stylized to convey a specific feeling; Shi described the film's overall look as an "Asian tween fever dream". According to executive producer Dan Scanlon, "It feels more like a very soft, colorful, magical, idyllic, almost youthful version of the city". Shi also considered how video games like Pokémon, EarthBound and The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild were able to "stylize their world in such an appealing, chunky, cute kind of way". Part of this desired setting was capturing the popularity of boy bands at the turn of the millennium and how teenage girls reacted to them. Pixar animators visited locations around Northern California for inspiration and visual references. They studied red pandas at the San Francisco Zoo, and looked at architecture in Chinatown in San Francisco and the Bok Kai Temple in Marysville.


==== Inspirations ====
Domee Shi said that several anime influenced the film, including Doraemon, Sailor Moon, Ranma ½, Fruits Basket, and Inuyasha. To capture these anime influences, hand-drawn 2D animated effects were added atop Pixar's 3D animation. Shi was also inspired by My Neighbor Totoro, in creating an "iconic grabbable giant animal that you just want to rub your face in". Nintendo games, such as Earthbound, Pokémon and The Legend of Zelda, have also been cited as a major influence for the film. Shi also compared the plot of the film to Disney's A Goofy Movie, a similar coming-of-age movie involving a parent and child trying to mend their relationship, with a pop band as part of the film's climax. The film also deals with puberty, though the film does not directly talk of biological changes. For example, Mei's mother mistakes Mei's reaction to her transformation for her first menstruation. Shi said they were "unapologetic" about the discussion of these topics in the film; the title Turning Red is an allegory for menstruation. The color red also reflects other feelings experienced by teenagers, according to Shi, such as embarrassment or lust. Shi and her staff had feared that studio executives would want the scenes referencing puberty removed, but the scenes were accepted.
Liu oversaw the production of the food scenes, as she had done for Bao. They partnered with the non-profit organization Gold House that specializes in promotion of East Asian and Pacific cultures to identify what foods to include. For rendering the foods, they were inspired by the approach that Studio Ghibli had done with foods in their works, as well as exaggerating their look in the same manner that Sanrio uses to bring cuteness into their products, and the way the film The God of Cookery showed food in a "dream glow".


=== Music ===

The film's music is scored by Ludwig Göransson in his first animated film project, and was recorded within a two-week period after COVID-19 lockdown relaxations. The film also featured three original songs written by Billie Eilish and Finneas O'Connell: "Nobody Like U," "1 True Love," and "U Know What's Up." These songs were performed in the film by the fictional boy band 4*Town, which O'Connell was a part of. Producer Lindsey Collins said that her child was a fan of Eilish's music, which inspired her to approach Eilish and O'Connell at the start of production. Collins had pitched to their pair using a scrapbook featuring scenes from the film and cutouts of the duo. Walt Disney Records released the soundtrack album digitally and on CD on March 11, 2022. Subsequently, tracks from 4*Town appeared in multiple languages, some of which were performed by boy bands such as Da-ice (Japanese) and W0LF(S) (Mandarin). The album debuted at number 187 on the Billboard 200 chart on the week of March 21, 2022, and peaked at #87 on the week of April 9, 2022.


== Marketing ==


=== Promotion ===

A first look of the film was shown at the Disney Investor Day on December 10, 2020. The teaser trailer premiered on July 13, 2021, as the official trailer premiered on November 17, 2021. In the lead up to the film's release, Disney partnered with Mozilla to promote the film via the Firefox web browser, as red pandas are also known as "firefoxes". Users on mobile and desktop are able to apply custom backgrounds and themes within the browser, respectively. According to Mozilla's chief marketing office Lindsey Shepard, the collaboration gives Mozilla the opportunity "to bring [the] Mozilla ethos to the new generation". One of the red pandas at the San Francisco Zoo was renamed Meilin on the day of the film's release.
Air Canada decorated an Airbus A220 with images of Mei and her "red panda form" to fly over Canada promoting the film, and also had a contest for the public to attend the premiere in Toronto and win special prizes. A large statue of Mei as a red panda was placed in Toronto next to the CN Tower, Ripley's Aquarium, Roundhouse Park, Scotiabank Arena and the Rogers Centre (formerly known as Air Canada Centre and the Skydome, respectively) where passerby could have their photos taken with the statue. iSpot.tv reported that Disney had spent $23 million on television spots for Turning Red, which was more than what the studio spent on Black Widow, Jungle Cruise ($19.5 million), and Cruella ($12.6 million), and what Netflix spent on its most-watched film, Red Notice ($3.3 million). Since February 21, 2022, the trailer for the film had been the 16th-most-seen TV spot of all time.


=== Tie-in media ===
Disney licensed several books based on the film, which were released both before and after the U.S. premiere, including novelizations, short stories, a sticker album, a behind-the-scenes book and coloring books. A manga focused on 4*Town, titled 4*Town 4*Real, was released by Viz Media on April 25, 2023. On February 27, 2023, it was announced that Red Panda Mei would become a meet-and-greet character at Shanghai Disneyland for a limited time, from March 1 to May 31, 2023.


== Release ==


=== Theatrical and streaming ===
Turning Red had special screenings that took place in London at Everyman Borough Yards on February 21, 2022, and in Toronto at TIFF Bell Lightbox on March 8, 2022. It premiered at the El Capitan Theatre in Hollywood on March 1, 2022. It was originally scheduled for theatrical release in the United States on March 11, 2022, by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. On June 17, 2021, a Pixar insider reaffirmed the film would have a theatrical release after both Soul (2020) and Luca (2021) were assigned direct-to-streaming releases on Disney+ in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, as the Omicron variant cases rose, on January 7, 2022, the decision was made to shift the film from its theatrical release to its direct-to-streaming release on Disney+ as a Disney+ original. In international markets where Disney+ was not available, it was released theatrically.
In February 2022, it was announced that it would play a one-week theatrical engagement at Hollywood's El Capitan Theatre from March 11–17, 2022. It also began playing at Manhattan's AMC Empire 25 and Oakland's Grand Lake Theatre the same day it was released to Disney+, as well as several Showcase Cinema de Lux venues across the United Kingdom. On February 28, 2022, Disney announced that it would be delaying the film's Russian release, originally scheduled for March 10, until further notice in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Embrace the Panda: Making Turning Red, a 48-minute documentary about the film especially focusing on its all-female creative team, was released on Disney+ the same day. On December 5, 2023, it was announced that Turning Red, as well as Soul and Luca, would be released in theaters in the United States throughout early 2024, with Turning Red being released on February 9, 2024, accompanied by Pixar's SparkShorts short film Kitbull.


=== Home media ===
Turning Red was released on digital services on April 26, 2022, and by Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment on 4K Ultra HD, Blu-ray and DVD on May 3, 2022.
NPD VideoScan reported that Turning Red debuted at No. 2 on both the overall and Blu-ray disc sales charts for the week ending May 7, 2022. In its first week, the film sold roughly 44% as many copies as Spider-Man: No Way Home did in its fourth week. Of these sales, 58% came from HD formats, 35% from standard Blu-ray, and 23% from 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray. The following week, ending May 14, Turning Red moved to No. 4 on both the overall disc sales and Blu-ray charts.


=== Censorship ===
Kuwait refused to distribute the film for its explicit depictions of puberty and other mature themes.


== Reception ==


=== Box office ===
Before February 9, 2024, Turning Red did not see a traditional theatrical release in most markets and was released to the Disney+ streaming service due to COVID-19. By September 2022, the film earned $20.1 million outside the U.S. and Canada. It earned $3.8 million from 12 international markets in the opening weekend, with second-place openings in Saudi Arabia ($920,000), Poland ($430,000) and the United Arab Emirates ($420,000). It earned $2.8 million in its second weekend and $1.7 million in its third. Its domestic gross was $1.4 million during its theatrical re-release.


=== Viewership ===
Analytics company Samba TV, which gathers viewership data from certain smart TVs and content providers, reported that Turning Red was streamed in 2.5 million U.S. households over its opening weekend, marking the highest debut ever for a Disney+ original film. Nielsen Media Research, which records streaming viewership on some U.S. television screens, calculated that Turning Red was the most-streamed program in the U.S. from March 7–13, with 1.7 billion minutes viewed. From March 14–20, the film maintained the top position, accumulating 1.675 billion minutes watched. Turning Red subsequently became the second most-watched film of 2022, garnering 11.4 billion minutes of viewing time. Nielsen subsequently reported that Turning Red had accumulated 8.7 billion minutes of watch time between 2020 and 2025, ranking No. 9 among the most-streamed films during that time frame.


=== Critical response ===
Turning Red received critical acclaim. On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 95% of 291 critics' reviews are positive. The website's consensus reads, "Heartwarming, humorous, beautifully animated, and culturally expansive, Turning Red extends Pixar's long list of family-friendly triumphs." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 83 out of 100 based on 53 critics, indicating "universal acclaim".
The Washington Post's Michael O'Sullivan gave 4 stars out of 4 and concludes: "[The film] delivers a bigger, and in some ways more universal message: It's okay to not always be in control, to let your freak flag fly. To paraphrase Sigmund Freud, sometimes a red panda is just a red panda. And sometimes it's a metaphor for that inner spark of creativity, the flame of originality that is to be cherished, not extinguished. With Turning Red, Shi demonstrates that she's got it, in spades". IGN's Siddhant Adlakha gave a rating of 9 out of 10 and concludes: "A story of magical transformation as a metaphor for personal and cultural change, Turning Red (from Bao director Domee Shi) is Pixar's funniest and most imaginative film in years. It captures the wild energy of adolescence, uses pop stars as a timeless window into puberty, and tells a tale of friendship and family in the most delightfully kid-friendly way". Vanity Fair's Richard Lawson commented that "The film often seems squarely, deliberately, aimed at ... parents instead, offering them a gentle (if busy) reminder that they were young once too, once bursting at the seams with enthusiasm and curiosity and, yes, budding lust." The film was also praised for its realistic depiction of female friendships and their ups and downs, which producer Lindsey Collins credited to having mostly women on the creative team. Sara Michelle Fetters describes the film as "a coming-of-age sensation where the supernatural and the mundane happily walk hand in hand, with each eye-popping surprise grounded in lifelike normality."
The Guardian's Benjamin Lee gave 3 stars out of 5 and concludes: "The journey is slick and diverting, and at times incisive, but Turning Red is yet another Pixar film that coasts rather than glides. Hopefully its next offering can turn into something more". Chicago Sun-Times' Richard Roeper gave 2.5 stars out of 4 and comments that "The problems are mostly with the script, which often requires Meilin to be almost irritatingly obnoxious. Meanwhile, her mother behaves like a monster for much of the story, which takes on an increasingly supernatural element to the point where there's a Ghostbusters homage". World's Collin Carbarino comments that, "With Turning Red, Pixar abandons decades of nuanced storytelling and warms over Disney's clichéd advice to follow your heart." The Gospel Coalition's Brett McCracken said that "For all of its merits, the film ultimately advocates a wrongheaded central message under the guise of empowerment: embrace who you are, even your reckless vices and dangerous impulses, and don't let anyone stop you."
CinemaBlend's Sean O'Connell called the focus on a Chinese Canadian girl as "limiting" to a broad audience: "By rooting Turning Red very specifically in the Asian community of Toronto, the film legitimately feels like it was made for Domee Shi's friends and immediate family members. Which is fine – but also, a tad limiting in its scope". The New Yorker's Jane Hu echoed O'Connell's views, accusing the film of relying on East Asian stereotypes and of being "hyper-specific and alienating." O'Connell's review received backlash by members of the press on social media, who called it "sexist" and "racist"; crew and cast members of the movie eventually spoke up on the case. Lead voice actress Rosalie Chiang said the film was meant to appeal to all: "This is a coming of age film, everyone goes through this change ... I think different people of different cultures are going to go through it differently, but at the end of the day, the core messiness and change is something everyone can relate to". As a result of the push-back, CinemaBlend's editor-in-chief Mack Rawden pulled O'Connell's review and apologized publicly for it and that the site had "failed to properly edit" the review before posting; O'Connell also posted his own apology for the review.
The attention drawn by O'Connell's review led to parents and other audience critics to raise further issues with the film due to the character specificity, bringing up concerns that the film, aimed at a family audience, brings up the issues of menstruation, teenage crushes and sexuality, and disobedience of one's parents, which these people felt were topics best left for parents to discuss with their children on their own. Movie critics for The New York Times, The Atlantic, The Daily Beast, and Vox argued that these are natural topics that reflect the realities of 13-year-old girls and should not be considered taboo, and praised the film for its honest portrayal of these behaviors.
In 2023, Barry Hertz of The Globe and Mail named the film as one of the 23 best Canadian comedy films ever made, acknowledging that it was not a Canadian production but writing that "Turning Red gets a pass because it not only reminds audiences of what Pixar can do when it's not in an Elemental-y slump, but showcases one of this country's brightest, funniest filmmakers, who is surely just getting started." Kimberly Jones from The Austin Chronicle summarized the film as a funny, sweet, and empathetic portrait of cultural identity, gentle teen rebellion, and tetchy mother-daughter relations.


=== Accolades ===

At the 95th Academy Awards, Turning Red received a nomination for Best Animated Feature. The film's other nominations include seven Annie Awards, a British Academy Film Award, a Critics' Choice Movie Award, and a Golden Globe Award.


== Possible sequel ==
Domee Shi has expressed interest in a follow-up, stating: "We are open, but we haven't talked about it. But yeah, it's an invitation at the end for more stories". Chiang and Oh also expressed interest and came up with ideas for a sequel or a prequel.


== See also ==
List of box-office bombs


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website 
Turning Red at Box Office Mojo 
Turning Red at IMDb

Brana Ilić (Serbian Cyrillic: Брана Илић; born 16 February 1985) is a Serbian professional footballer who plays as a forward.


== Club career ==


=== Zemun and Rad ===
Ilić made his first senior appearances with Zemun in the 2003–04 First League of Serbia and Montenegro. He quickly established himself as a first-team regular, scoring four goals in 23 games. During his time at Zemun, Ilić amassed a total of 93 league appearances and scored 14 goals.
In the 2007 winter transfer window, Ilić moved to Serbian First League club Rad, spending there the next two years. He helped them win promotion to the Serbian SuperLiga in 2008.


=== Partizan and Vojvodina ===
On 9 January 2009, it was announced that Ilić signed a three-and-a-half-year contract with Partizan. He made his competitive debut for the club on 14 March, coming on as a late second-half substitute for Lamine Diarra in a 2–0 home league victory over Čukarički. Four days later, in his second appearance for Partizan, Ilić scored his first goal for the club, giving his team a 1–0 away win against Jagodina.
On 1 July 2010, it was announced that Ilić signed a one plus one-year contract with Vojvodina. He made 44 appearances across all competitions and scored 15 goals for the club, before leaving Novi Sad in the 2012 winter transfer window.


=== Kazakhstan, Greece and Hungary ===
In March 2012, Ilić moved abroad to Kazakhstan and signed with Aktobe. He made 10 appearances and scored three goals in the first half of the 2012 Kazakhstan Premier League, before leaving the club during the summer transfer window.
In the summer of 2012, Ilić joined Super League Greece side PAS Giannina. He made his first appearance for the club on 25 August, playing the full 90 minutes in a 0–0 home league draw with Platanias. On 7 October, Ilić scored his first goal for PAS Giannina in a 1–2 home loss to Panionios. He finished his debut season as the club's top scorer with 11 goals (10 in the league). During his four-year tenure at PAS Giannina, Ilić amassed 138 competitive appearances and scored 28 goals for the club.
On 2 August 2016, Ilić signed with Football League club Aris Thessaloniki on a two-year contract plus one-year extension. He netted his first goals for the side on 18 December, scoring a brace in a 3–2 win over Trikala. Eventually, Ilić left Aris Thessaloniki after just one season.
After five years in Greece, Ilić moved to Hungary and joined Nemzeti Bajnokság II club Kisvárda in July 2017. He helped them gain promotion to the Nemzeti Bajnokság I in his debut season, contributing with 10 goals in 35 appearances.


== International career ==
On 18 March 2011, Ilić received his first call-up to the Serbia national team for their UEFA Euro 2012 qualifiers against Northern Ireland and Estonia, but remained unused in both matches. He eventually made his debut in a friendly match against South Korea on 3 June 2011.


== Career statistics ==


=== Club ===
As of 3 December 2021


=== International ===


== Honours ==
Partizan
Serbian SuperLiga: 2008–09, 2009–10
Serbian Cup: 2008–09
Individual
Top Assist Super League Greece Runner-Up: 2014–15 (10 Goals with PAS Giannina)


== References ==


== External links ==
Brana Ilić at Magyar Labdarúgó Szövetség (MLSZ) (in Hungarian)
Brana Ilić – UEFA competition record (archive)
Brana Ilić at National-Football-Teams.com

The list of ship launches in 1881 is a chronological list of ships launched in 1881.


== References ==

Sources

Mitchell, WH; Sawyer, LA (1990). The Empire Ships (Second ed.). London, New York, Hamburg, Hong Kong: Lloyd's of London Press Ltd. ISBN 1-85044-275-4.

A draketail is a Chesapeake Bay boat that features a sloping transom that meets the waterline at a sharp angle, usually rounded in plan. The feature could be found in 1920s workboats such as the Chesapeake Bay deadrise and in smaller skiffs. The configuration was inspired by World War I destroyer designs.


== References ==

Margaret Anne Sinclair (29 March 1900 – 24 November 1925), religious name Mary Francis of the Five Wounds, was a Scottish Catholic nun of the Colettine Poor Clares. She was declared venerable by Pope Paul VI on 6 February 1978.


== Life ==


=== Family ===
Andrew Sinclair, from Edinburgh, husband to Elizabeth ('Leebie') Kelly, from Dundee, moved to Edinburgh in 1897 from Dundee. She had two older siblings, John and Isabella, and three younger - Andrew, Elizabeth and Lawrence. Before Lawrence was born, Margaret's parents lost two children, first James, who died aged only a year old; then Mary, alive for only a matter of days.


=== Parents ===
Andrew and Elizabeth were married on New Year's Day, or the Solemnity of Mary, the Holy Mother of God, in the Church, in 1896. St. Joseph's Church in Dundee was the venue for the wedding, but Margaret's parents left Dundee within a year, so that Andrew returned to Edinburgh with his wife. Elizabeth was Catholic from birth, but Andrew converted so that they could marry.
Andrew had gone to Dundee to search for work, and whilst Elizabeth worked manufacturing jute in a mill from thirteen years of age onward, Andrew became a tanner. On returning to Edinburgh, he found work with the town council as a road-sweeper, rising early and being paid a low wage.


=== Church Life ===
Margaret Sinclair was baptised at St Patrick's Church on 11 April, 1900. On 8 May 1910, she was confirmed in St Patrick's Church, Edinburgh and received the Eucharist for the first time.
Both her older brother John and her father served in World War I. Sinclair left school at the age of fourteen and, from 1914 to 1918, worked full-time at Waverley Cabinet Works as an apprentice French polisher, and became an active member of her trade union.
The Scottish economy had been heavily dependent upon the war; a depression followed the end of the Great War. Many activities necessary for the war economy, such as arms production and ship construction, no longer played a major role in the Scottish Economy; the skills required to undertake these tasks were not easily transferable to the civilian economy. Margaret was unemployed, and by 1918 the Waverley Cabinet Works had shut its doors. She would later find work in a biscuit factory run by McVitie.
In 1922, seeking a life of solitude and prayer, Margaret applied to join the Poor Clares in Notting Hill, London.


== Religious life ==
On 21 July 1923, Margaret and her brother Andrew travelled to London. The two would say goodbyes; Andrew was emigrating to Canada while Margaret would enter the convent of the Colettine Poor Clares in Notting Hill. Upon entrance to the convent, she took the name Mary Francis of the Five Wounds after Mary Frances of the Five Wounds. Many members of the religious community doubted Sinclair's ability to live a cloistered life owing to her humble heritage.
Margaret contracted laryngeal tuberculosis and was admitted to a sanatorium run by the Sisters of Charity at Warley, Essex, on 9 April 1925, where she remained until her death on 24 November that same year, and was buried at Kensal Green in north west London. On 22 December 1927 her body was re-interred at Mount Vernon, Liberton, Edinburgh. On 25 October 2003 her remains were again removed and now lie in her home parish church, dedicated to Saint Patrick, in Edinburgh.
The marble slab covering her body has a low relief sculpture of her head in the centre of a cross, but is hard to view unless directly above, as it is white on white.


== Veneration ==
Sinclair's cause of beatification was introduced to the Sacred Congregation of Rites in 1942 by Pope Pius XII. On 6 February 1978, 100 years after Scotland's Roman Catholic hierarchy was restored Margaret Sinclair was declared venerable by Pope Paul VI. The process has continued since then; on 1 June 1982, Pope John Paul II said, "Margaret could well be described as one of God's little ones, who through her very simplicity, was touched by God with the strength of real holiness of life, whether as a child, a young woman, an apprentice, a factory worker, a member of a Trade Union or a professed Sister of religion'".
St. Patrick's Church in Old Town, Edinburgh contains the National Shrine of the Venerable Margaret Sinclair.


== References ==


== External links ==
Margaret Sinclair b. 1900 at sinclair.quarterman.org
Independent Catholic News at www.indcatholicnews.com
Address Of John Paul II During The Visit To Saint Joseph's Hospital, Edinburgh, Tuesday, 1 June 1982

Shahr-e Kord (Persian: شهركرد) is a city in the Central District of Shahrekord County, Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari province, Iran, serving as capital of the province, the county, and the district. It is the largest city in the province, and is 90 km away from Iran's third largest city, Isfahan.


== Name ==
According to the Historical Dictionary of the Kurds, the city was originally known as Deh-e Kord. ("deh" meaning "village") In 1935, the name was changed to Shahr-e Kord ("shahr" meaning city) to reflect the growth of the city and its population. The name "Deh Kurd" is also visible in the Kurdistan et groupements Kurdes isolés.
Coins have been found in Shahr-e Kord dating back to the Sasanian and Parthian era.


== Demographics ==


=== Language ===
The linguistic composition of the city:


=== Population ===
At the time of the 2006 National Census, the city's population was 126,746 in 31,977 households. The following census in 2011 counted 159,775 people in 44,081 households. The 2016 census measured the population of the city as 190,441 people in 55,492 households.


== Geography ==


=== Location ===
Shahr-e Kord is located about 90 km (56 mi) southwest of Isfahan and 512 km (318 mi) of Tehran. It is topographically situated in the north of the Zagros Mountains. Being located 2,070 m (6,790 ft) above sea level, Shahr-e Kord is the most elevated among the centers of the provinces of Iran, known as the Roof of Iran.


=== Climate ===
Shahr-e Kord has a hot-summer mediterranean continental climate (Köppen: Dsa, Trewartha: Dc), with hot summer days, cool summer nights, cold winter days, and freezing winter nights. The annual average temperature in Shahr-e Kord is about 11.4°C (52.5°F). The absolute minimum temperature recorded in Shahr-e Kord since the start of keeping records has been −32.4 °C (−26.3 °F) on 29 December 2004, while the highest maximum temperature ever recorded was 42.0 °C (107.6 °F) on 15 July 1977. January is the coldest month and July is the hottest month. Although the humidity level is moderate or high in winter, the amount of rainfall is close to zero in planting seasons, except for April and May.


== Economy ==
Barfab Company manufactures home appliances including evaporative coolers, gas/kerosene/electric water heaters, gas space heaters, refrigerator - freezers, and twin-tub washing machines. Hiring about 1400 people within the firm, Barfab is the biggest private unit in the province.
Shahrekord (Zagros) Cement Co Archived 18 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine is located in the center of the mountain range of Zagros, 35 km away from Shahr-e Kord (Zagros) city.
Shahr-e Kord (Zagros) Zagros Steel Company engages in the manufacturing of cast iron.
Farokh Shahr Steel Industries[link removed] is a tinplate producer. It is located 10 km away from Shahr-e Kord city.
Shahrekord (Zagros) Carbon Dioxide Corp. Archived 21 February 2016 at the Wayback Machine is the largest producer of CO2 and dry ice in Iran.
Shahrekord (Zagros) Textile Industries Co, founded in Shahr-e Kord in 1991, is a fabric retail store which specializes in clothing fabrics, polyester viscose, and black Chador.
PAK PAY CO Archived 25 February 2021 at the Wayback Machine, founded in Shahr-e Kord in 1991, is a dairy factory which produces pasteurized milk, flavored milk, cheese, and yogurt. In 1996, Pak Dairy Co bought approximately 99% of the company's stock.
Photonic and Optoelectronic Research Group was founded in Shahr-e Kord in 2014. This research group is managed by Dr. Hamed Saghaei, one of the prominent researchers in this field of study. The research group focuses on design and fabrication of micro and nano-photonic devices including photonic crystal fibers and waveguides, photonic chips based on optofluidic approach, etc. This research group is supported by Islamic Azad University, Shahr-e Kord Branch.
Energy Research Center, the research group focusing on energy and environment including renewable energy employed in building, etc. This research group is supported by Islamic Azad University, Shahr-e Kord Branch, https://shahrekord.iau.ir/energy/fa


== Transportation ==
The Shahr-e Kord Bus Organization has 150 buses in its fleet which operate different routes throughout the city.
Shahrekord Airport is a domestic airport located to the south of the city. It currently has flights to and from two cities: Tehran and Mashhad.


== Education ==

There are three universities in the city of Shahr-e Kord. The public and state university is Shahr-e Kord University (SKU) with 5,713 students. The other universities are Shahr-e Kord University of Medical Sciences (SKUMS) with 1,690 students and Islamic Azad University of Shahr-e Kord Branch (IAUSHK) with 7,400 students.


== Sister cities ==
 Dushanbe, Tajikistan


== Notable people ==
Notable people from Shahr-e Kord include painter Arghavan Khosravi.


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
 Media related to Shahr-e Kord at Wikimedia Commons


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official site of the Governorship
Shahr-e Kord (Zagros) University website

Francesco Landi (9 July 1682 – 11 February 1757) was an eighteenth century archbishop and cardinal. He is also known as Francesco Landi Pietra after his father's adoption by Count Cesare Pietra di Roncarolo.


== Biography ==
Landi was the fourth child of Count Odoardo Landi and Elisabetta Lampugnani, minor nobility from Piacenza. He studied in Rome at the Pontifical Ecclesiastical Academy and the Sapienza University of Rome, where he graduated in utroque jure. After graduation, he became ajutante de studio to Cardinal Giuseppe Renato Imperiali in the Papal conclave, 1721. Francesco Farnese, Duke of Parma sent him as his ambassador in Paris at the court of the Duke of Orleans, Philippe II, regent of France on behalf of the then still underage Louis XV of France. He found favour with the Count and acted as his counselor. He decided to return to Rome and he became the legal secretary of the Supreme Tribunal of the Apostolic Signatura on 26 March 1733. In 1736 he became secretary of the "Sacred Congregation for the Discipline of the Regulars" and consultor of the Supreme Sacred Congregation of the Roman and Universal Inquisition.
He was ordained priest on 8 September 1741 and ten days later he was appointed Archbishop of Benevento and consecrated by Pope Benedict XIV on 12 November. He often attended his diocese and worked to restore and beautify the Cathedral of Benevento.
Within the consistory of 9 September 1743, Benedict XIV appointed him cardinal, sending him the red biretta with an apostolic brief of 20 September 1743.  He received the title of Cardinal Priest of San Onofrio on 15 June 15, 1744 but left that office for that of San Giovanni a Porta Latina on 13 September 1745.
On 17 January 1752 he left the Bishop's chair of Benevento to return to Rome. Here, he was Camerlengo of the Sacred College of Cardinals from 14 January 1754 to 17 February 1755, when he became Prefect of the Sacred Congregation of the Index and for the Correction of the Books of the Oriental Church. He vigorously promoted the cause of beatification of the Venerable Father John Leonardi, founder of the Congregation of Clerks Regular of the Mother of God as Protector of the order.
He was buried in Santa Maria in Campitelli in Rome.


== References ==

David Charles Brundage (born October 6, 1964) is an American professional baseball manager. In 2017, Brundage spent his first season as manager of the  Sacramento River Cats, Triple-A affiliate of the San Francisco Giants.
His debut season with Sacramento, his first in the Giants' organization, marked Brundage's 12th consecutive season as a manager at the Triple-A level and 20th year as a skipper in the  minor leagues. Previously, he spent four seasons (2013–16) at the helm of the Lehigh Valley IronPigs in the Philadelphia Phillies' organization. He led the 2016 IronPigs to an 85–58 record, the second-best mark in Triple-A.
Brundage attended McKay High School in Salem, Oregon, and Oregon State University. He was selected by the Phillies in the fourth round of the 1986 Major League Baseball draft but never reached the Major League Baseball (MLB). Primarily an outfielder—although he appeared in 39 games as a pitcher—his playing career lasted for eight seasons in the Philadelphia and Seattle Mariners' organizations. He had been traded along with Glenn Wilson and Mike Jackson from the Phillies to the Mariners for Phil Bradley and Tim Fortugno at the Winter Meetings on December 9, 1987. He batted .275 with 683 hits and compiled a 1–5 won/lost mark on the mound with an earned run average of 3.83. Brundage threw and batted left-handed, stood 6 ft 3 in (1.91 m) tall and weighed 190 lb (86 kg).
His managerial career began in the Seattle organization in 1995 in the California League, but he has spent much of his career at higher levels of the minors, including six years at Double-A with Seattle affiliates in the Southern and Texas leagues, and 11 seasons at Triple-A with the Tacoma Rainiers (2006), Richmond/Gwinnett Braves (2007–12), and the IronPigs. His 2007 Richmond team won the International League championship. He also was Tacoma's batting coach from 1998 to 2000.
His 19-season win–loss record as a manager through 2016 was 1,371–1,315 (.510).
Brundage is married to Dameron, with whom he raised three children.


== References ==


== External links ==
Career statistics from Baseball Reference (Minors)
Gwinnett Braves' official biography

Debits and Credits is a 1926 collection of fourteen stories, nineteen poems, and two scenes from a play by Rudyard Kipling. Four of the poems that accompany the stories are whimsically presented as translations from the "Bk. V of Odes" by Horace, but are actually poems by Kipling imitating the style of the Roman poet.


== Contents ==


=== Stories ===
"The Enemies to Each Other"
The story of Adam and Eve retold in the style of a Muslim fable
"Sea Constables: a Tale of ’15"
Weekend sailors turned naval officers discuss their patrolling of the coast over dinner
" 'In the Interests of the Brethren' "
An account of the generous hospitality of a Masonic Lodge in wartime
"The United Idolaters"
A tale of school life, in which Stalky & Co discover Uncle Remus and outrage a new master
"The Wish House"
An old Sussex woman talks about the love of her life and the price she paid for loving him
"The Janeites"
A still-bewildered old soldier recalls how he came to join a 'secret society' of Jane Austen admirers and gives his own unique take on her oeuvre
"The Prophet and the Country"
A stranded motorist meets an exiled American who explains his passionate objection to Prohibition
"The Bull that Thought"
A story about an uncannily intelligent bull with a flair for the bullfight
"A Madonna of the Trenches"
After the war, a soldier reveals the true cause of his "shell-shock"
"The Propagation of Knowledge"
A tale of school life, in which Stalky & Co bait their English master with the Curiosities of Literature and the Baconian theory
"A Friend of the Family"
An Australian soldier avenges his friend by waging war on the home front
"On the Gate: a Tale of ’16"
A fantasy in which St Peter and the administrators of Heaven struggle to cope with the surge of souls from the war
"The Eye of Allah"
In a mediaeval abbey, an artist shows some doctors an early microscope, which provokes debate
"The Gardener"
A story about respectability and mother-love


=== Poems ===
The Changelings
The Vineyard
‘Banquet Night’
To the Companions (Horace, ode 17, Bk. v.)
The Centaurs
‘Late Came the God’
Rahere
The Survival (Horace, Ode 22 Bk. v.)
Jane's Marriage
The Portent (Horace, Ode 20, Bk, v.)
Alnaschar and the Oxen
Gipsy Vans
The Birthright
A Legend of Truth
We and They
The Supports
Untimely
The Last Ode: Nov. 27, B.C. 8 (Horace, Ode 31, Bk. v.)
The Burden


=== Play Fragments ===
Gow's Watch : Act IV. Sc. 4
Gow's Watch: Act V. Sc. 3


== References ==


== External links ==
Full text of Debits and Credits at Project Gutenberg Australia
 Debits and Credits public domain audiobook at LibriVox

A. G. Mehta (1 February 1927 – 10 March 1969) was a Ugandan member of parliament, barrister and the eldest son of a prominent Indian industrialist. The Honourable A.G. Mehta was elected as the first Asian-Indian mayor of Uganda's capital Kampala in 1968 and was a close colleague of Uganda's first prime minister Milton Obote; with whom he jointly fought for the country's independence at the Uganda Constitutional Conference in 1961. He is credited with drafting elements of what would become the first Constitution of Uganda.


== Education ==
A.G. Mehta was educated as a barrister at Queen Mary University of London, School of Law, in West London, and was legally permitted to practice law in the United Kingdom, Uganda and Kenya.


== Political career ==


=== Member of Parliament ===
As a member of parliament, A.G. Mehta attended the Uganda Constitutional Conference at Lancaster House in 1961 as part of the Uganda Peoples’ Congress (UPC) delegation alongside Milton Obote. The conference was also attended by then Governor of Uganda, Sir Frederick Crawford, and the Secretary of State for the Colonies, Iain Macleod. Recommendations produced by Mehta and other conference attendees resulted in the first Ugandan Constitution, which took effect on 9 October 1962.


=== Mayor of Kampala ===
A.G. Mehta was elected as the first Indian mayor of Uganda's capital city, Kampala, in 1968. One week before his death in 1969, Mehta opened the first exhibition on the Baháʼí Faith in the National Theatre of Uganda, where his opening address, attended by numerous East-African dignitaries, advocated pointedly for the unity of mankind.


== Family ==
A. G. Mehta was born the eldest son of the Mehta family, one of Kampala's longest-standing and most prominent Indian families originally hailing from Porbandar, Gujarat, India. The Mehta family were amongst the first multi-millionaires in East Africa with numerous agricultural businesses including the production of cotton and coffee.
Following his death in 1969, Mehta's widow, Savita Mehta (née Radia) and five surviving children —Avi Mehta, Asha Mehta (later Madhvani), Asita Mehta, Alka Mehta, and Aditi Mehta (later Rajani)— were exiled from Uganda by his former colleague, Idi Amin.
Mehta's granddaughter is Maya Asha McDonald, a British-Canadian art historian and journalist known best for her 2022 op-ed on Russian President Vladimir Putin.


== Publications and institutions ==
A.G. Mehta's role in establishing the first Constitution of Uganda in 1962 is recorded in Ali AlʼAmin Mazrui's 1978 book Political Values and the Educated Class in Africa published by the University of California Press.
Images of Mehta's political career can be found in the British Library and were digitised by the Endangered Archives Programme.


== References ==

BBC London and South East was a pan-regional weekday lunchtime television news bulletin which was broadcast on BBC One in the London and South East regions between March and September 2020. The programme was produced and broadcast live from the BBC's South East Regional Production Centre in Royal Tunbridge Wells. All other local news bulletins remained separate for the two regions.
The decision to merge the two programmes was due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom and to allow fewer studios to be needed for broadcasting.
The lunchtime bulletin was first broadcast on 25 March 2020. Combined breakfast bulletins had been broadcast during BBC Breakfast beforehand but these were dropped following the decision to temporarily remove local news bulletins during Breakfast due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
The final regular edition was broadcast on 4 September 2020. After this date the lunchtime bulletins returned to BBC London News and South East Today.
On 23 January 2021, the edition briefly returned for a week due to staff shortages at BBC London.
On 17 July 2021, the edition returned once again, and later returned once more on 20 December 2021, and on 27 December 2021, the programme joined with South Today to create BBC London, South and South East Today due to staffing issues over the 2021 Christmas holidays.
Since then, there have been several instances where BBC London bulletins on BBC Breakfast have been replaced by BBC South East Today bulletins. On 11-12 August 2025, BBC London suffered a technical fault, resulting in the bulletins being replaced temporarily by South East Today bulletins.


== See also ==
BBC London News
South East Today
Newsroom South East


== References ==


== External links ==
 BBC London and South East  at BBC Online

Daystar Television Canada is a Canadian specialty channel that broadcasts Religious programming dedicated to the Christian faith.
It is owned by World Media Ministries.
Originally known as The Christian Channel from 2005 to 2009, it was re-branded as Grace TV in September 2009. As of June 2013, the majority of its programming became sourced from the U.S. Evangelical Christian network Daystar Television, and the network ultimately took on the Daystar brand in November 2013.


== History ==

The channel was launched on October 1, 2005 as The Christian Channel by previous owners S-VOX.
On January 26, 2009, S-VOX announced that it had reached an agreement to sell the Christian Channel to World Impact Ministries. The sale was subject to Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) approval. It was approved by the CRTC on May 4, 2009. World Impact Ministries took control of the channel on June 1, 2009 and introduced new programming including eNcounter- its flagship program airing daily. The channel was renamed Grace TV on September 16, 2009.

In May 2013, Grace TV entered into a partnership with the U.S. based religious broadcaster Daystar Television, in which the majority of Grace TV's programming would come from Daystar, with the remaining 35% provided by Canadian producers. On November 23, 2013, the network announced that it would drop the Grace TV name in favor of branding as Daystar full-time.


== High-definition feed ==
A high-definition feed will be launched first by Shaw Direct on 4 September 2019.


== See also ==
Televangelism


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Frank James Butler OBE (16 September 1916 – 2 January 2006) was a British sportswriter and author. He was one of Fleet Street's best-known and longest-serving sports editors, retiring from that position at the News of the World in 1982, after 22 years' service. Though Butler covered all sports, boxing was always his favourite.
His father, James Butler, was boxing correspondent at the Daily Herald, and introduced Frank to the sport at an early age. As a child Frank watched such stars as Augie Ratner, Mickey Walker and Georges Carpentier at their training camps, and saw the fights of leading British boxers such as Ted "Kid" Lewis, Ernie Rice and Harry Mason while perched between two press seats – one occupied by his father, and the other, as he remembered it, by either Charlie Rose or Fred Dartnell – themselves leading boxing correspondents. Before he was 10, Butler had watched innumerable boxing matches at notable venues such as the National Sporting Club, Premierland, the Blackfriars Ring, the Royal Albert Hall and Olympia.
At 16 Butler joined the Daily Express as a junior member of the Sports Department, and at 18 was reporting boxing and football under his own name. He was encouraged and helped enormously by Trevor Wignall, the newspaper's main sports columnist at the time, and also by the Express Editor Arthur Christiansen. Butler soon became the newspaper's chief boxing writer and columnist, and in 1941 – at the age of 24 – was appointed sports editor at the Sunday Express (the youngest person to hold that position).
In 1949 the News of The World hired Butler as a sports columnist on a salary dubbed 'the highest transfer fee in Fleet Street'; and he became the newspaper's sports editor in 1960.
In 1954 he was a founder member of the Boxing Writers' Club, and later became its chairman. In 1984 he was made an administrative steward of the British Boxing Board of Control, and after retiring in 1997, was elected honorary steward.
He was the author of at least four books on the subject of boxing. His first, The Fight Game, was co-written with his father and published in 1954.
He was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 1981 New Year Honours.


== References ==

timesonline.co.uk obituary.
Butler, James & Frank. The Fight Game, The World's Work, 1954.

UFM may refer to:

UFM100.3, a Mandarin radio station in Singapore
Ultrasonic force microscopy
Unidad Falangista Montañesa, a Spanish political party
Union des Femmes Monégasques, a women's organization in Monaco
Union for the Mediterranean, an intergovernmental organisation
United Farmers of Manitoba, an agrarian political movement
Universidad Francisco Marroquin, a private, secular university in Guatemala City, Guatemala
University of Finance and Management in Warsaw, the former name of VIZJA University, Poland

El Dorado Canyon is a canyon in southern Clark County, Nevada famed for its rich silver and gold mines. The canyon was named in 1857 by steamboat entrepreneur Captain George Alonzo Johnson when gold and silver was discovered here. It drains into the Colorado River at the former site of Nelson's Landing.
The town of Nelson lies in the upper reach of the canyon. Eldorado Canyon Mine Tours operates mid way in the canyon at the Techatticup Mine one of the oldest and most productive mines in the canyon.


== History ==
Prospecting and mining in the El Dorado Canyon started by 1857, if not earlier.   But in April 1861, as the American Civil War began, word got out that silver and some gold and copper lodes had been discovered by John Moss and others in what became known as El Dorado Canyon, in New Mexico Territory, now Nevada.  The canyon was on the west side of the river sixty five miles (104.6 km) above Fort Mohave at what was then considered the limit of navigation of the river.  George A. Johnson came up river and made a deal to supply the mines with his steamboats at a lower price than that provided overland across the Mohave Desert from Los Angeles.  That fall, news of the strikes in the Colorado Mining District (by 1864 also called the Eldorado Canyon District), brought a flood of miners to the canyon.
Several mining camps were founded in the canyon over the years. At the beginning San Juan, or Upper Camp, was at the top of the canyon miles from the river near the modern town of Nelson.  Midway down the canyon near the Techatticup Mine were Alturas and Louisville.  At the mouth of the canyon was the boat landing of Colorado City. 
During the time of the American Civil War, three new mining camps developed in the middle canyon.  In 1862, Lucky Jim Camp was formed along Eldorado Canyon above January Wash, south of the Techatticup Mine.  Lucky Jim Camp was the home of miners sympathetic to the Confederate cause. A mile (1.6 km) up the canyon was a camp with Union sympathies called Buster Falls.
In late 1863, Col. John R. Vineyard, at the time a California State Senator for Los Angeles, completed a ten stamp mill the first in the canyon, on its north side just below Lucky Jim Camp, at what soon became El Dorado City.  Vineyard's mill, assembled from mill parts salvaged from abandoned works in the Mother Lode country of California, processed the ore of its mines and cut out the cost of shipping the ore out to San Francisco for such processing, cutting costs in half.  George Alonzo Johnson's steamboat company losing this downstream ore trade and making fewer trips up to the Canyon responded by raising its freight rates.
From 1865 to 1867, as part of Mohave County, Arizona Territory, El Dorado Canyon had its own post office.
In 1867, to secure the riverboat traffic and protect miners in the canyon from Paiute attacks the U.S. Army established Camp El Dorado, an outpost at the mouth of El Dorado Canyon that remained until it was abandoned in 1869.  From 1870 the mines again were active to the point where from 1879 to 1907 El Dorado Canyon again had a post office, now in Clark County, Nevada.
The mines continued to produce ore until World War II.


== References ==


== External links ==
Wikimapia satellite map of Eldorado Canyon showing locations of historic mines and mining camps from wikimapia.org accessed May 24, 2015. (Note: One error in this map, is the location of Camp Duncan in El Dorado Canyon. It was located miles to the south near the historic Camp Dupont mining camp,35°33′55″N 114°45′48″W, which was approx. 17 miles NE of Searchlight, Nevada, north of Dupont Mountain. See Avertt, Walter R. Directory of Southern Nevada Place Names. Revised edition: printed by the author, 1963, p. 20. This error derives from the erroneous location entry in the Feature Detail Report for: Camp Duncan (historical), U.S. Geological Survey Geographic Names Information System: Camp Duncan (historical).
Photos from El Dorado Canyon, 1880s - 1890s from The Otis Marston Colorado River Collection, Huntington Digital Library, hdl.huntington.org accessed June 22, 2015.
Steamer "Mohave II" at El Dorado Canyon. The mill is at the left; c.1885
The mine operations at Eldorado Canyon served by steamer and barge, 1890. Photographer: Stanton, Robert Brewster, 1846-1922.  This is the steamboat Gila tied up at the canyon landing with a barge load of coal it brought for the stamp mill, something it did several times a year. See Lingenfelter, Steamboats of the Colorado, p. 69.
Steamer "Gila" approaching Eldorado Canyon,  Mar. 20-21, 1890, Photographer: Stanton, Robert Brewster, 1846-1922
Mining operation at Eldorado Canyon, 1890. Photographer: Stanton, Robert Brewster, 1846-1922
Photos from El Dorado Canyon, 1907 from digital.library.unlv.edu, Nevada State Historical Society Photo Collection, accessed 5/12-13/2014.
View of Southwestern Mining Company's Quartz Mill along river
View of Colorado River from Eldorado Canyon. Down river and towards the mill, from just below the house. (probably the mail carrier's boat in foreground)
Abandoned mill at Eldorado Canyon Archived 2015-05-18 at the Wayback Machine
Eldorado Canyon from Colorado River. From a boat in mid-stream, looking west. [above] Southwestern Mining Co. Quartz Mill, Mouth of El Dorado Canyon, Boarding House, Store, Millmen's cabins, Weather Observation Station [below] 
From the Arizona Shore, looking southwest. S.W.M. Co. Mill at outlet of El Dorado Canyon, Store building, end view, Millmen's camps and cabins on "the Mesa", abandoned adobe, home.
Prospectors' camp in El Dorado Canyon, 1907
Miners inside Techatticup Mine Archived 2015-05-18 at the Wayback Machine
Horse-drawn ore hauler in Eldorado Canyon Archived 2015-05-18 at the Wayback Machine
View of Eldorado mill in basin Archived 2015-05-18 at the Wayback Machine
Room and pillar surface stopes on the Wall Street Mine-which produced $1,5000,000.00 in gold alone from about 80 feet depth. El Dorado Canyon Clark County Nevada Archived 2015-05-25 at the Wayback Machine
Dredge below Eldorado Canyon. 1907 from The Otis Marston Colorado River Collection, Huntington Digital Library, hdl.huntington.org accessed June 22, 2015.  If this is the dredge North Dakota, then the date of the photo is wrong.  It should be 1909.  It was constructed between March and June, 1909, then used from June to November, 1909, with no success.  It swamped and sank in a flood surge of the river on January 2, 1910. See Lingenfelter, Steamboats of the Colorado, p. 100.

The Paraćin massacre (Serbo-Croatian: Paraćinski masakr / Параћински масакр) was a mass shooting which targeted Yugoslav People's Army (JNA) soldiers in the military barracks in Paraćin, Yugoslavia on 3 September 1987. The perpetrator was Aziz Kelmendi, a 20-year-old Kosovo Albanian conscript. Kelmendi fired an automatic weapon into two sleeping rooms before he fled and committed suicide. The shootings left four soldiers dead and five wounded.


== Background ==
Aziz Kelmendi (Serbian: Азиз Кељменди/Aziz Keljmendi; born 15 January 1967 in Lipljan, SFR Yugoslavia) was a Kosovo Albanian conscript in the Yugoslav People's Army (JNA). Yugoslav authorities described him as a "misfit and loner". Prior to his military service, he was arrested and imprisoned from 2–17 April 1984 for allegedly attempting to leave Yugoslavia and go to Albania. At his trial hearing he reportedly said "Albania is my country, not Yugoslavia. I want to go there and live and fight for our goals!". His conviction also included nationalistic behaviour at high school and university. He disliked learning Serbo-Croatian. Prior to the killings, he had two arguments with a soldier named Safet Dudaković.


== Attack ==
On 3 September 1987, Kelmendi's mother and father came to Paraćin to visit their son. Next morning, Kelmendi broke into a firearm cabinet and stole ten 7.62 mm bullets. He loaded these into his military-issued automatic weapon and went from the living facilities to a guard post. According to the JNA inquiry, Kelmendi threatened to kill the watchman, corporal Riza Alibašić, and took two magazines of ammunition from him. Pointing his weapon at Alibašić, Kelmendi took the corporal back to the living facility and demanded to know where Dudaković slept. When Alibašić refused to answer, Kelmendi told him to step aside and went into the sleeping quarters. There, he shot and killed the sleeping Dudaković before killing Srđan Simić and Goran Begić and wounding two other soldiers. He went into the adjacent sleeping quarters and fired randomly at the soldiers there, killing Hasim Dženanović and wounding two others. Kelmendi then fled the barracks. He was found dead 0.8 kilometres (0.50 mi) away and his death was later declared a suicide. A total of four soldiers were killed and five were wounded in the shooting. Two of those killed were Bosniaks, one was a Serb, and one was half-Slovene and half-Croat.


== Aftermath ==
It was claimed that "Kelmendi was assisted by eight associates, members of a hostile Albanian separatist and irredentist group". These eight, six ethnic Albanians, an ethnic Muslim and a Roma, were later convicted for helping the attack. Yugoslav authorities concluded that Kelmendi had planned the attack shortly before it occurred. They stated that the military unit in which he served had no reason to suspect that he was mentally unstable and that he was "a loner who had a personal complex because he was ugly and quite nervous". He apparently socialized only with other Albanians and sometimes acted aggressively.
The Paraćin massacre shocked Yugoslavia, where mass shootings were very uncommon. Media reported the attack as a "shot at Yugoslavia". It prompted Yugoslav authorities to send 400 federal police officers to Kosovo at the end of 1987. Despite those killed having been mostly non-Serbs, the Serbian media presented the shootings as an anti-Serbian attack. An estimated 10,000 people attended the funeral of Srđan Simić, the Serb soldier who was killed. Senior JNA officers and the mayor of Belgrade were in attendance. The crowd followed Simić's casket in silence, with some complaining that neither Ivan Stambolić nor Slobodan Milošević had attended the funeral. Afterwards, crowds began denouncing Yugoslavia and chanting "Serbia, Serbia!". They shouted "better the grave than a slave!", "we want freedom", "Kosovo is Serbia", "we shall not give Kosovo away" and "enough of resolutions". Simić's father repeatedly asked for the crowd to stop chanting, but to no avail. After the funeral, an estimated 20,000 people visited Aleksandar Ranković's grave in the same cemetery and sang "Hey, Slavs", the national anthem of Yugoslavia. The crowd shouted "down with Azem Vllasi" and "all Shiptars out of Serbia, Kosovo is ours!".
Mobs responded to the killings by destroying Albanian-owned kiosks and shops in Paraćin, Subotica, and Valjevo. Yugoslav authorities arrested Kelmendi's family members and questioned them in a Prizren jail. Kelmendi's sixteen-year-old sister, Melihata, was expelled from her school. The Partisan organization in Kelmendi's birthplace, Dušanovo, demanded that all villagers isolate his family. Kelmendi's high school tutor, Agish Kastrati, was forced from the League of Communists of Yugoslavia and five of his teachers received "final warnings" for failing to record Kelmendi's absence from school during his imprisonment three years earlier.


== See also ==
List of massacres in Serbia
Vranje shooting


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Further reading ==
The New York Times, November 1, 1987, Late City Final Edition (p. 14) "In Yugoslavia, Rising Ethnic Strife Brings Fears of Worse Civil Conflict" by David Binder

Kercheval Gholson (December 4, 1805 – July 17, 1875) was an American politician who was an early settler of Chicago, and served as an Indian agent and a member of the Illinois House of Representatives. In his later life, he moved to California.


== Early life ==
Gholson was born in Mason County, Kentucky on December 4, 1805. He was the youngest son of John Kercheval and Jane Kercheval (née Berry).


== Life and career in Chicago ==
Gholson was one of the earliest non-native settlers of Chicago, Illinois, arriving in approximately 1830. In March 1831, he was sworn in as one of the inaugural three Cook County Commissioners. From 1831 through 1833, he worked as a sub-agent of Indiana Affairs at Chicago, working as a deputy to his brother-in-law Thomas Jefferson Vance Owen (Chicago's Indian agent). While holding this role, he worked on behalf of the United States federal government as a mediator in its negotiations with the Sauk and Fox (Meskwaki) native nations, for which he was paid $2,000. While sub-agent, he signed the 1833 Treaty of Chicago as a witness. On August 10, 1833, Kercheval voted in the inaugural Chicago town election.
During the Black Hawk War, Gholson served as a captain of the Chicago company in the Illinois Militia. He organized the company to defend Chicago and the Rock River Valley during the war. George W. Dole served as first lieutenant in his company.
In August 1838 he was elected to serve as a Democratic Party member of the Illinois House of Representatives representing a constituency in Cook, McHenry, and Will Counties. He served until 1840.


== Later life in California ==
In 1850, Kerchaval and his family moved to the state of California. Kerchaval died there in the city of San Francisco on July 17, 1875.


== Personal life, family, descendants ==
On November 25, 1833, Kercheval wed Blanche Felicite Hotchkiss in Kaskaskia, Illinois. Together, they had two sons. Only one of their sons, Walter Gholson Kerchival, lived to adulthood. He married Clarissa Agnes Doud, and had a single child (daughter Blanche Felicitie Kerchival, who married Oma Carr and had two sons: Hugh R. Kerchival Carr and Lee Kercheval Carr).


== References ==

The Red Queen is a fictional character and the main antagonist in Lewis Carroll's fantasy 1871 novel Through the Looking-Glass. She is often confused with the Queen of Hearts from the previous book Alice's Adventures in Wonderland (1865), although the two are very different.


== Overview ==
With a motif of Through the Looking-Glass being a representation of the game of chess, the Red Queen could be viewed as an antagonist in the story as she is the queen for the side opposing Alice. Despite this, their initial encounter is a cordial one, with the Red Queen explaining the rules of chess concerning promotion—specifically that Alice is able to become a queen by starting out as a pawn and reaching the eighth square at the opposite end of the board. As a queen in the game of chess, the Red Queen is able to move swiftly and effortlessly.
Later, in Chapter 9, the Red Queen appears with the White Queen, posing a series of typical Wonderland/Looking-Glass questions ("Divide a loaf by a knife: what's the answer to that?"), and then celebrating Alice's promotion from pawn to queen. When that celebration goes awry, Alice turns against the Red Queen, whom she "considers as the cause of all the mischief", and shakes her until the queen changes into Alice's pet kitten. In doing this, Alice presents an end game, awakening from the dream world of the looking glass, by both realizing her hallucination and symbolically "taking" the Red Queen in order to checkmate the Red King. The red queen is often said to be based on Mary Prickett, Alice Liddell's family's governess.


== Confusion with the Queen of Hearts ==
The Red Queen is commonly mistaken for the Queen of Hearts from the story's predecessor, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. The two share the characteristics of being strict queens associated with the color red, while their personalities are very different. Carroll, in his lifetime, made the distinction between the two Queens by saying:

The 1951 Walt Disney animated film Alice in Wonderland perpetuates the long-standing confusion between the Red Queen and the Queen of Hearts. In the film, the Queen of Hearts delivers several of the Red Queen's lines, notably "all the ways about here belong to me" which in the case of the Red Queen has a double meaning since as a chess piece she can move in any direction.
In both American McGee's Alice and Tim Burton's film adaptation of the books, the two characters are combined. Jefferson Airplane's song "White Rabbit" contains the lyric "and the Red Queen's off her head", despite the fact that "Off with her head!" as a repeated line is associated with the Queen of Hearts, not the Red Queen.


== Popular culture ==


=== Alice in Wonderland (2010) ===

The 2010 live-action film Alice in Wonderland, fashioned as a sequel to the novel, features Helena Bonham Carter as the Red Queen. Bonham Carter's head was digitally increased three times its original size on screen.
Bonham Carter's character is a combination of the Red Queen, the Duchess and the Queen of Hearts.  From the original Red Queen, this character gets only a relationship to the White Queen.  Here the Red Queen is the elder sister of the White Queen, and is jealous of her sister, whom her subjects genuinely love.
From the original John Tenniel illustrations of the Duchess, she gets a massive head in proportion to her body and a retinue of frog footmen.  The White Queen theorizes that the movie's Red Queen has a tumor pressing against her brain, explaining both her large head and her deranged behaviour.
Most of her characteristics are taken from the Queen of Hearts including:

A quickness to anger, including the famous phrase "Off with his/her/their/your head!"  Her first name, Iracebeth, is a play on the word "irascible".  In the movie, the queen's moat is full of heads from her many decapitations.  Carter has said that she based her performance on her toddler-aged daughter.
The use of animals as inanimate objects. Beside the flamingo mallets and hedgehog croquet balls from the original, this queen also uses them as furniture.
Having tarts stolen, although in this adaptation it was a starving frog footman who stole the tarts rather than the Knave of Hearts.  Here, the queen is madly in love with the Knave of Hearts, who leads her army, and has executed her husband the King for fear that he would leave her.
Employment of a fish footman and the White Rabbit.
Heart motifs throughout her palace and a 16th-century-style costume associated with the queen of hearts playing card and the original John Tenniel illustrations for the Queen of Hearts.
The irritable, snobbish mother of Alice's potential husband, cast as a corresponding villain in the "real world" also resembles the Queen of Hearts when she fumes about her gardeners planting white instead of red roses.
After the Jabberwocky is slain by Alice, the Red Queen's army stops fighting and following her orders. The White Queen banishes the Red Queen to Outland where nobody is to say a word to her or show her any kindness. The Knave of Hearts is also banished and tries to kill the Red Queen when they are shackled together only to be thwarted by the Mad Hatter. As the Red Queen and the Knave of Hearts are carried off to their exile, the Red Queen repeatedly shouts "He tried to kill me" while the Knave of Hearts begged for the White Queen to have him killed.
In the video game adaptation of the film, she plays a minor role, first appearing as a mere illustration. She is not seen in person until near the end of the game, first playing croquet and beheading the hedgehogs she uses as balls whenever they miss their target at her castle, and then again both before and after the battle with the Jabberwocky.
In the sequel of the 2010 film, the Red Queen returns as the main antagonist and Bonham Carter reprises her role. In the film, the Red Queen currently lives in a castle made with vegetation and other things in Outland where she is still exiled and is served by vegetable people whose parts she occasionally eats. In addition, the Knave of Hearts' skeleton is shown in her castle. The Red Queen is the love interest of Time and the two ally: If he will give to her the powerful Chronosphere and kill Alice she will give to him his love and they will rule the universe. When Alice steals the Chronosphere to save Tarrant, the Red Queen orders Time to find her and kill her. The Red Queen's true past is discovered when Alice travels in time: as a child, she was calm and sweet, however her parents favoured her sister over her; one day the Red Queen was accused of eating tarts when it was her sister who ate them. During the tart fiasco, the Red Queen ran away and would fall and crash her head into a grandfather's clock where her head expands turning her into a crazy and hating person. At the day of the coronation, the Red Queen believed that Tarrant was laughing about her large head, and shouts at him. When her father says that her sister will become the queen of Underland, she swears a horrible revenge on Tarrant. During the climax, both Queens are taken back in time where the Queens witnessing the tart event causes a paradox. Once Wonderland was saved from destruction, the White Queen apologizes for lying about the tarts and the two sisters reconcile.


=== Once Upon a Time in Wonderland ===

The Red Queen appears in Once Upon a Time in Wonderland (a spin-off to Once Upon a Time) portrayed by Emma Rigby. She is a character distinct from the Queen of Hearts (Barbara Hershey), who was her tutor in magic. Like the Queen of Hearts and the Mad Hatter, the Red Queen is an émigré to Wonderland from the Enchanted Forest, having originally been a young woman named Anastasia, with whom Will Scarlet (the Knave of Hearts) was in love. The Red Queen featured as one of the show's main antagonists, alongside Jafar.


=== Pandora Hearts ===

Two characters from the manga/anime Pandora Hearts are based on the Red Queen, Alice and Lacie, though Lacie has more in common with the Red Queen than Alice, who also has connections with The Queen of Hearts.


=== American McGee's Alice and Alice: Madness Returns ===

In the American McGee's Alice video game/media franchise by American McGee, The Red Queen is initially conflated with the Queen of Hearts in the first game, American McGee's Alice. The names are used interchangeably, and the chess level further implies the two are one and the same. However, in the second game, Alice: Madness Returns, they are separated once more and the player meets the Queen of Hearts in her original form; the Red Queen is seen at the very beginning of the game as a flashback from Alice's memories of when The Red Queen reigned sovereign in Wonderland. Subsequent to the development of Alice: Otherlands, a proposed spin-off pitch to EA Games (who holds the franchise's copyrights) was initiated by American McGee that included crowdfunding and fan-support using the platform Patreon, entitled "Alice: Asylum." It is revealed in the art book designed for the proposal that the prequel portion of the game features Alice interacting with the two characters as separate entities, with a later cataclysm resulting in their merging into one monstrous creature resembling the form that Alice confronts in the first game (before this form is revealed to be a puppet/avatar extending from tentacles of the Red Queen's gigantic and monstrous true form.


=== DC Comics ===
In the third volume of Shazam!, the Red Queen came from the Wozenderlands and is a member of the Monster Society of Evil. She was among its members imprisoned in the Dungeon of Eternity within the Monsterlands until Mister Mind instructed Doctor Sivana on how to free them. As Shazam fights a Mister Mind-controlled C.C. Batson, Red Queen and Scapegoat ask Mister Mind when they will get a turn. Mister Mind states that they will get their chance once the Magiclands are united. As the Monster Society of Evil continues their fight with the Shazam Family, Scapegoat noted to Red Queen that Black Adam was supposed to be part of the group as Red Queen states that Black Adam refused to follow Mister Mind while having plans to get revenge on Alice and Dorothy Gale. When Scapegoat mentions his plans to get revenge on Mayor Krunket, Superboy-Prime crashes the fight where he uses his fists to impale Scapegoat as he states to Red Queen that he's going to play around first before he gets serious. When Shazam defeats Mister Mind, the resulting magical energy knocked out the Red Queen and the rest of the Monster Society of Evil. The Monster Society of Evil was mentioned to have been remanded to Rock Falls Penitentiary where the Shazam Family built a special section to contain magical threats.


=== Come Away ===
The Red Queen is played by Anna Chancellor in the 2020 movie Come Away. This version of the Red Queen is depicted as the imaginary counterpart to Eleanor Morrow, Alice's maternal aunt and the older sister of Alice's mother Rose (Angelina Jolie), whose imaginary counterpart is the Queen of Hearts.


=== Resident Evil ===

In the Resident Evil series of video games and films the Red Queen is a self-aware computer system created to monitor and protect the Umbrella Corporation, an organisation dedicated to destroying almost all the human race as a method of dealing with ecological collapse. Its holographic avatar is modelled after Alicia, the young daughter of the original founder of the corporation.


=== Other ===
Christina Henry has authored The Red Queen a spin-off novel based on the character as part of a series based on the books.


== Adaptive uses outside the arts ==


=== In science ===
The Red Queen hypothesis is an evolutionary hypothesis taken from  the Red Queen's race in Through the Looking-Glass.
Science writer Matt Ridley popularized the term "the red queen" in connection with sexual selection (See Evolution of sex for more details).


=== In business ===
"Red Queen marketing" is defined as the business practice of launching new products in order to replace past failed launches while the overall sales of a brand may remain static or growth is less than fully incremental.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Bell, G. (1982). The Masterpiece Of Nature: The Evolution and Genetics of Sexuality. University of California Press, Berkeley, 378 pp.
Lewis Carroll. 1960 (reprinted). The Annotated Alice: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking-Glass, illustrated by J. Tenniel, with an Introduction and Notes by M. Gardner. The New American Library, New York, 345 pp. Through the Looking-Glass and What Alice Found There. Lib.virginia.edu Archived 2011-01-11 at the Wayback Machine
Dawkins, R. & Krebs, J. R. (1979). Arms races between and within species.  Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, B 205, 489–511.
Francis Heylighen (2000): "The Red Queen Principle", in: F. Heylighen, C. Joslyn and V. Turchin (editors): Principia Cybernetica Web (Principia Cybernetica, Brussels), Pespmc1.vub.ac.be
Pearson, Paul N. (2001) Red Queen hypothesis Encyclopedia of Life Sciences, Els.net
Ridley, M. (1995) The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature, Penguin Books, ISBN 0-14-024548-0
Leigh Van Valen. (1973). "A new evolutionary law". Evolutionary Theory 1: 1—30.
Vermeij, G.J. (1987). Evolution and escalation: An ecological history of life. Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ.

The freestyle relay events at the 2019 World Para Swimming Championships were held in the London Aquatics Centre at the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in London between 9–15 September.


== Medalists ==
* - denotes the swimmer only swam in the heats but received a medal.


== Results ==


== References ==

Disunited and poorly organized for most of its history, trade unions in Ecuador developed only slowly and had only a marginal political impact. Precise figures on unionization in the late 1980s were practically nonexistent, even within the unions themselves. The organized labor movement in Ecuador was divided into four confederations and a number of independent federations. At the local level, labor organizations also took the form of artisan guilds, cooperatives, and neighborhood associations. In addition to representing only a minority of the workers in all sectors of employment (approximately one-fifth), the labor movement traditionally was weakened by rivalry and government repression. Nevertheless, it had influence disproportionate to its numbers as a result of the concentration of trade unions in urban areas, mainly Quito and Guayaquil, its organizational power, and the political impact of strikes and demonstrations on governments that did not enjoy strong support.
Professional or employee associations (cámaras), composed of middle-class, white-collar workers, constituted about 25 percent of all trade unions. Representing the dominant economic groups in the country, these associations exercised a predominant influence on economic policy; their representatives frequently held cabinet posts and other top government positions dealing with economics. The support of the associations proved crucial to most governments.


== History ==
Although union organizations began forming in Ecuador early in the twentieth century, organized workers did not begin to acquire any influence until the late 1930s. Key events in Ecuador's labor history took place in 1938 with the promulgation of the Labor Code and the founding of the first labor confederation, the Ecuadorian Federation of Classist Organizations (Central Ecuatoriana de Organizaciones Clasistas, or Cedoc). Between 1938 and 1949, some 550 labor organizations were formed. These included the country's second confederation, the Confederation of Ecuadorian Workers (Confederación de Trabajadores Ecuatorianos, CTE), which began operating in 1944. A total of 3,093 unions were established between 1950 and 1973.
Cedoc was never an effective articulator of worker interests, being more concerned with religious causes, combating efforts to eliminate exclusion of ecclesiastical control and influence in labor organizations, and curtailing communist infiltration in the labor sector. Although of Catholic origin, Cedoc rejected its Christian Democratic leadership in 1976 and adopted a socialist orientation. The old leaders retained the support of a few grassroots organizations and formed a parallel organization. Approximately 80 percent of Cedoc's membership came from the Ecuadorian Federation of Peasant Organizations (Federación Ecuatoriana de Organizaciones Campesinas, or Fenoc). In the mid-1980s, Cedoc had unions in fifteen of the twenty provinces; its estimated membership of 130,000 was largely composed of artisans, with almost no industrial worker membership. After twelve years of political division, the two Cedoc branches united in 1988 and formed the Ecuadorian Confederation of Classist Organizations for Workers' Unity (Confederación Ecuatoriana de Organizaciones Clasistas para la Unidad de los Trabajadores, CEDOCUT).
Through militant activities, such as petitions, collective conflicts, and general strikes, the CTE—composed predominantly of industrial workers and led by members of the communist and socialist parties—emerged as the principal labor organization in Ecuador in the late 1970s. Although the CTE had become the largest of the three national confederations by the 1970s, its hegemony declined in the 1980s as a result of the growth of rival confederations, internal conflicts and splits, and governmental repression. In 1987 only a shadow remained of its peasant federation, the Ecuadorian Indian Federation (Federación Ecuatoriana de Indios, FEI). The CTE still included a number of industrial unions and various public-sector unions, and was organizing autonomous workers. It encompassed an estimated 55,000 members in 200 affiliated unions.
The Marxist-Leninist Communist Party of Ecuador established a small federation, the General Union of Ecuadorian Workers (Unión General de Trabajadores Ecuatorianos, UGTE), in an attempt to rival the CTE. Apart from the powerful National Union of Teachers (Unión Nacional de Educadores, UNE), which had about 100,000 members, the UGTE had little success in affiliating unions. Together with student unions and a few other groups, the UGTE formed the Popular Front (Frente Popular, FP), which in the 1980s was attempting to rival the United Workers Front (Frente Unitario de Trabajadores, FUT) in organizing protest action.
The Inter-American Regional Organization of Workers (Organización Regional Interamericana de Trabajadores, ORIT) tried to unify the non-Marxist unions by founding the Ecuadorian Confederation of Free Trade Union Organizations (Confederación Ecuatoriana de Organizaciones Sindicales Libres, CEOSL) in 1962. CEOSL, the third-largest confederation, membership consisted almost exclusively of urban white- and blue-collar workers. The CEOSL included fourteen provincial and thirteen national federations made up of a large proportion of industrial workers, a number of members from the service sector, and a small number of agricultural workers, peasants, and craftsmen.
FUT emerged in 1971 and eventually united the three main confederations—Cedoc, CEOSL, and CTE—plus a number of independent unions, including the Catholic Federation of Workers (Central Católica de Obreros, CCO), making FUT the country's largest workers' confederation. By the 1980s, FUT totaled an estimated 300,000 members and emerged as the leader of a massive movement that arose spontaneously to protest the economic crisis, and that greatly outnumbered the ranks of unionized workers. FUT nearly toppled President Osvaldo Hurtado in 1982 when he introduced austerity measures in the face of the debt crisis. In June 1988, FUT, together with the National Coordinator of Workers (Coordinadora Nacional de Trabajadores, CNT), the Confederation of Indigenous Nationalities of Ecuador (Confederación de Nacionalidades Indígenas del Ecuador, or Conaie), and FP, staged a one-day national strike aimed at obtaining a large increase in the minimum wage and a freeze on the prices of basic goods. It was the seventh general labor action against the Febres Cordero government and coincided with an ongoing strike by the UNE for a rise in monthly wages. The impact of FUT remained limited, however, because the federation tended to maintain its working-class orientation, based on wage claims, and in practice gave relatively little importance to the claims of other sectors that looked to it for leadership.


== References ==

Søren Robin Oxholm Larsen (born 2 October 1949) is a Danish former footballer who played as a defender. He made four appearances for the Denmark national team from 1973 to 1975.


== References ==


== External links ==
Søren Larsen national team profile at the Danish Football Association (in Danish)
Søren Larsen at WorldFootball.net

Barcelona Sporting Club's 2012 season was the club's 87th year of existence, the 59th year in professional football, and the 54th in the top level of professional football in Ecuador.


== Competitions ==


=== Pre-season friendlies ===


=== Serie A ===


==== First stage ====


==== Second stage ====


=== Other friendlies ===


== External links ==
Official website (in Spanish)
Unofficial website (in Spanish)

SS Alexander McDougall was a "whaleback" ship, the last and longest whaleback ever built. The design, created by Scottish captain Alexander McDougall (1845–1923), enabled her to carry a maximum amount of cargo with a minimum of draft. Whalebacks were also called "pig boats", among other names, due to their appearance. The Alexander McDougall was the only whaleback built with a traditionally shaped bow. This was done in an attempt to increase the strength of the ship's hull so that the beam could be increased.
Alexander McDougall was also the only whaleback to be outfitted with a quadruple expansion engine.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Alexander McDougall (ship, 1898) at Wikimedia Commons
Alexander McDougall at Bowling Green State University Historical Collections of the Great Lakes

Citibank Europe plc, is a subsidiary of Citigroup that operates in Europe. It is headquartered in Ireland.


== History ==
Citibank commenced operations in Ireland in 1965.
In 2015, the division shifted its retail banking headquarters from London to Dublin. At that time, it employed 4,300 people.
Also in 2015, the Hungarian retail operations were acquired by Erste Group.
In 2018, the company formed a new bank as a result of a reorganization due to Brexit.
In September 2023, CEO Kristine Braden resigned after less than a year on the job. The division also announced layoffs. Nacho Gutierrez-Orrantia was then named head of Citibank Europe.


== See also ==

List of banks in Europe
List of banks in the Republic of Ireland


== References ==


== External links ==
Citibank Ireland website

Mayako Nigo (仁後真耶子, Nigo Mayako; born December 2, 1979) is a Japanese voice actress from Tokyo, Japan. She was married since April 2014 and that she has given birth to a boy on January 1, 2016.


== Filmography ==


=== Television animation ===
Angel Tales (TV) as Hamster no Kurumi
Rozen Maiden (TV) as Mrs. Rabbit (ep 3)
Tenshi no Shippo Chu! (TV) as Hamster Kurumi
The Idolmaster as Yayoi Takatsuki
Puchimas! Petit Idolmaster as Yayoi Takatsuki and Yayo
Dragon Crisis! as Misaki Etō


=== Video games ===
The Idolmaster series as Yayoi Takatsuki
Mugen Souls Z as Reu
Rainbow Islands: Putty's Party as Putty
Arcana Heart series as Lilica Felchenerow


== References ==


== External links ==
Official agency profile (in Japanese)
Mayako Nigo  at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Mayako Nigo at IMDb

Bezirk Neusiedl am See (Hungarian: Nezsideri járás; Croatian: Kotar Niuzal) is a district of the state of 
Burgenland in Austria.


== Municipalities ==
Towns (Städte) are indicated in boldface; market towns (Marktgemeinden) in italics; suburbs, hamlets and other subdivisions of a municipality are indicated in small characters.
Where appropriate, the Croatian names are given in parentheses. The figures are as of 11 May 2024.

Andau (2,300)
Apetlon (1,754)
Bruckneudorf (3,085)
Kaisersteinbruch, Königshof (Bgld)
Deutsch Jahrndorf (645)
Edelstal (804)
Frauenkirchen (2,932)
Gattendorf (1,469)
Gols (4,011)
Halbturn (1,914)
Illmitz (2,365)
Jois (1,632)
Kittsee (Gijeca) (3,630)
Mönchhof (2,189)
Neudorf bei Parndorf (Novo Selo) (787)
Neusiedl am See (8,917)
Nickelsdorf (1,855)
Pama (Bijelo Selo) (1,282)
Pamhagen (1,518)
Parndorf (Pandrof) (5,326)
Podersdorf am See (2,193)
Potzneusiedl (652)
Sankt Andrä am Zicksee (1,386)
Tadten (1,191)
Wallern im Burgenland (1,645)
Weiden am See (2,614)
Winden am See (1,394)
Zurndorf (2,279)


== References ==

Stockport is a small town 73 kilometres (45 mi) north of Adelaide and 9.3 kilometres (5.8 mi) south of Tarlee in South Australia. It was laid out on section 1283, Hundred of Light in 1845 by Samuel Stocks junior, naming it for his birthplace, Stockport in Cheshire (now Greater Manchester), England.
On the southern boundary of the Clare & Gilbert Valleys Council area, it was once the heart of a small farming community. Stockport was a stop on the Peterborough railway line which opened past Stockport in 1869, connecting it to Adelaide. The line closed in the 2000s.
Stockport today boasts a number of old stone homes, mixed with a number of new residences. At the 2006 census, Stockport had a population of 234.
The Charles Todd Observatory, topped by a 7.5 metre dome, was built at Stockport c. 1970. It is operated by the Astronomical Society of South Australia. It was closed in 2010 after being damaged in a severe storm, but reopened in 2016.
Glenhaven Park Camp, an adventure park operated by the YMCA, is located off Ayliffe Bridge Road at Stockport (34.360°S 138.737°E﻿ / -34.360; 138.737).
The Roseworthy-Peterborough railway line runs through Stockport.


== See also ==
List of cities and towns in South Australia


== References ==

Otostigmus telus is a species of centipede in the Scolopendridae family. It was described in 1939 by American myriapodologist Ralph Vary Chamberlin.


== Distribution ==
The species occurs in New Guinea. The type locality is Pionierbivak, Mamberamo River, north-western New Guinea.


== References ==

This is a list of the current 63 members of the Althing (Icelandic Parliament), from 2021 until 2024.


== Election results ==


== List of MPs ==

For the parties having qualified with a national result above the 5% election threshold, the 9 leveling seats (L1-L9) were first distributed party-wise according to the calculation method in this particular order (where the party's total number of national votes was divided by the sum of "won seats plus 1" - with an extra leveling seat granted to the party with the highest fraction - while repeating this process until all 9 leveling seats had been determined). At the next step, these leveling seats were then by the same order distributed one by one to the relative strongest constituency of the seat winning party (while disregarding the constituencies that already ran out of vacant leveling seats). At the third step, the specific leveling seat is finally granted to the party's highest ranked runner-up candidate within the constituency, according to the same accumulated candidate vote score as being used when apportioning the constituency seats.


== References ==

Billie the Vision & the Dancers are a Swedish indie band with roots in Malmö, Blekinge, Dalarna and Argentina. The band recorded the first album I Was So Unpopular in School and Now They're Giving Me This Beautiful Bicycle in the spring of 2004. They produce their albums through the company Love will pay the Bills. Free mp3 files of all five albums are available through their website, with an appeal for donations in return. Their song, Summercat, was used in an advert for Spanish lager makers, Estrella Damm. The band were also included in the advert, performing in Formentera. The first airing of the Barcelona-based beer companies advert was in Spain, 2009. It first aired in the UK in the Spring of 2012.


== Biography ==
Billie the Vision and the Dancers were formed in Malmö, Sweden. They recorded their first album in the spring of 2004. Singer Lars Lindquist started as a soloist but later formed the band.


== Members ==
Silvio Arismendi - percussion (2005–present)
Pontus Janninge - acoustic guitar, vocals (2018–present)
Sofia Janninge - percussion, violin, vocals (2004–present)
Gustav Kronkvist - electric guitar (2004–2012, 2016-present)
Lars Lindquist - vocals, tambourine (2004–present)
Maria Thenor - bass (2004–present)


=== Former members ===
John Dunsö - acoustic guitar, backing vocals (2004–2010)
Lisa Haglind - accordion, trumpet, synths (2004–2008)
Frida Brattgård – trumpet, accordion (2008–2012)
Jon Lindquist - drums (2008–2014)


== Discography ==
I Was So Unpopular in School and Now They're Giving Me This Beautiful Bicycle (2004)
The World According to Pablo (2005)
Where the Ocean Meets My Hand (2007)
I Used to Wander These Streets (2008)
From Burning Hell to Smile and Laughter (2010)
While You Were Asleep (2012)
The Key To My Magic World (EP) (2015)
What's The Matter With You Boy? (2017)
Billie No Mates (2019)


== Singles ==
"A man from Argentina"
"Ask for More"
"Scared"
"So you want me to Bleed"
"Absolutely, Salutely"
"Summercat" (2009)
"Queen of the Dancefloor" (2012)


== References ==


== External links ==
Billie the Vision & the Dancers Official Site

The Marshall 22 is a recreational keelboat built by Marshall Marine Corporation in South Dartmouth, Massachusetts, United States. Production started in 1965 and the design remains in production. Nearly 800 have been built.


== Design ==
The Marshall 22 is built predominantly of fiberglass, with wood trim. It has a catboat gaff rig or optionally a fractional sloop rig, a plumb stem, a vertical transom, a transom-hung rudder controlled by a wheel and a fixed keel with a centerboard. It displaces 5,660 lb (2,567 kg) and carries 850 lb (386 kg) of ballast.
The boat has a draft of 5.18 ft (1.58 m) with the centerboard extended and 2.00 ft (0.61 m) with it retracted, allowing beaching or ground transportation on a trailer.
Later examples of the boat, between 1980 and 1985 are fitted with a Japanese Yanmar 3GM diesel engine of 21 hp (16 kW).
The catboat version has simple rigging with only a forestay on the mast and the mainsheet for controlling the sail. Factory standard equipment includes a boat hook, fog horn, fire extinguisher and life jackets.
Accommodation includes a settee on the port side of the bow and a starboard settee slightly aft. The galley is in the main cabin on the port side, while the head is on the forward starboard side. The main cabin has a drop-leaf table that is mounted on the centerboard trunk. The bow cabin has two ports and the main cabin has four. Cabin headroom is 62 in (157 cm).
The cat-rigged version of the design has a PHRF racing average handicap of 279 with a high of 246 and low of 350. It has a hull speed of 6.19 kn (11.46 km/h).


== Reception ==
In a review in Sailing Magazine, David Liscio, wrote, "these boats seem to exude a simple elegance".
In a 2010 review Steve Henkel wrote, "The Marshall 22 catboat and her sloop-rigged sister have been in production for over 40 years—one of the longest running continuously produced cruising sailboat designs ever. During the period, understandably, the builder has made many changes. Gasoline engines have been replaced with diesels, horsepower ratings have crept up, interior layout has been modified ... and fit and finish have gone through several iterations (generally toward fancier wood trim). Still, the Marshall 22 remains essentially the same boat it was in 1965, featuring shallow draft (two feet with board up) for gunkholing or lying on the bottom at low tide, and a good length on deck for a catboat. (Hoisting the sail on a bigger cat can be a pain for a singlehander—and a smaller cat has a lot less space below.) Best features: she looks like the pretty Cape Cod cat she is; skippers are likely to get frequent compliments while cruising. There's a good network of other catboaters, especially in the northeastern states for those seeking nautical camaraderie. Worst features: Compared to her comps, headroom is low. Also: the Marshall 22 cat has a reputation for being a bit sluggish in light air; well-sailed Marshall 18s can beat her handily. The sloop rig (338 sq. ft. main, 100 sq. ft. jib) is even slower Both rigs are better when it breezes up."


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Joaquín or Joaquin is a male given name, the Spanish version of Joachim.


== Given name ==
Joaquín (footballer, born 1956) (Joaquín Alonso González), Spanish football midfielder
Joaquín (footballer, born 1981) (Joaquín Sánchez Rodríguez), Spanish football winger
Joaquín (footballer, born 1982) (Joaquín Rodríguez Espinar), Spanish football forward
Joaquín Almunia, Spanish politician
Joaquín Andújar, professional baseball player in the Houston Astros organization
Joaquín Arias, professional baseball player in the San Francisco Giants organization
Joaquín Balaguer, President of the Dominican Republic
Joaquín Barañao (born 1982), Chilean writer and podcaster
Joaquín Belgrano, Argentine patriot
Joaquín Benoit, professional baseball player for the San Diego Padres
Joaquin Castro, American politician from San Antonio, Texas
Joaquín Correa, Argentine football forward
Joaquín Cortés, Spanish flamenco dancer
Joaquín De Luz, Spanish New York City Ballet principal dancer
Joaquin Domagoso, Filipino actor and model
Joaquín "El Chapo" Guzmán, Mexican drug lord
Joaquín Hernández, Mexican footballer
Joaquín "Jack" García, Cuban-American FBI agent
Joaquín Francisco Pacheco (1808–1865), Prime Minister of Spain
Jaoquin Gage (born 1973), former professional ice hockey goaltender
Joaquín Gutiérrez Cano (1920–2009), Spanish diplomat and politician
Joaquín Lavín, Chilean politician for the Independent Democrat Union
Joaquín Maurín, Spanish Catalan leader of the Workers' Party of Marxist Unification (POUM) and the Workers and Peasants Bloc
Joaquín Miguel Elizalde (1896–1965), Filipino diplomat, businessman and polo player
Joaquin Miller (1837–1913), American poet and frontiersman
Joaquin Oliver (2000–2018), one of the 17 victims who was killed in the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting
Joaquin Murrieta (1829–1853), Mexican-Californian 19th century outlaw
Joaquín Pardavé (1900–1955), Mexican actor, director, songwriter and screenwriter of the Mexican cinema (1900–1955)
Joaquin Phoenix (born 1974), American actor
Joaquín Rodríguez Ortega (1903–1984), known as "Cagancho", Spanish bullfighter
Joaquín Rodrigo (1901–1999), Spanish composer of classical music, especially for the guitar
Joaquín Sabina (born 1949), Spanish singer-songwriter and poet
Joaquín Salvador Lavado "Quino" (1932–2020), Argentine-Spanish cartoonist
Joaquín Sorolla (1863–1923), Spanish artist
Joaquin Szuchman (born 1995), Israeli-Argentinian professional basketball player
Joaquín Turina (1882–1949), Spanish composer of classical music
Joaquín Zavala (1835–1906), President of Nicaragua


== Surname ==
Addy Joaquín Coldwell, Mexican politician
Carlos Joaquín González, Mexican politician
Jaymee Joaquin, Filipina actress and TV presenter
Nick Joaquin, Filipino author
Pedro Joaquín Coldwell, Mexican politician
Waldis Joaquín, Dominican baseball pitcher for the San Francisco Giants


== Fictional characters ==
Commander Joaquin, a character in the anime Mobile Suit Gundam SEED C.E. 73: Stargazer
Joaquín de la Vega, son of Alejandro Murrieta “Zorro” de la Vega in Mask of Zorro and  The Legend of Zorro
Joaquin Salamanca, a minor character in Breaking Bad


== See also ==
Hurricane Joaquin
San Joaquin (disambiguation)
Quino (disambiguation) (diminutive form of the given name)


== References ==

Charlie Hunter Trio is the debut album by jazz guitarist Charlie Hunter. It was released by Prawn Song Records, a label owned by Les Claypool. Claypool produced the album, and his former bandmate, Jay Lane, played drums. Dave Ellis joined in on saxophone. Hunter played a seven-string guitar.


== Production ==
The album was recorded by Claypool for one hundred dollars.


== Critical reception ==
AllMusic wrote that "the trio provides an interesting, yet accessible, groove-driven, funky, improvised jam for a new generation of jazz fans." Trouser Press wrote: "Though deceptively clean, its diffuse, fusiony compositions don’t fully convey the group’s sass and spirit — only 'Dance of the Jazz Fascists' ... comes close."


== Track listing ==


== Personnel ==
Charlie Hunter – seven-string guitar
Scott Jensen – trumpet
Dave Ellis  – tenor saxophone
Miles Perkins – double bass
Jay Lane – drums
Scott Roberts – congas
Andre Marshall – bells, cow bell


== References ==

Mehmet Yılmaz may refer to:

Mehmet Yılmaz (footballer, born 1979), Turkish footballer
Mehmet Yılmaz (footballer, born 1988), Turkish footballer
Mehmet Yılmaz (weightlifter) (born 1974), Turkish weightlifter

The women's 50 metre butterfly event at the 2014 Asian Games took place on 22 September 2014 at Munhak Park Tae-hwan Aquatics Center.


== Schedule ==
All times are Korea Standard Time (UTC+09:00)


== Records ==
Prior to this competition, the existing world, Asian and Games records were as follows.


== Results ==
Legend
DNS — Did not start


=== Heats ===


=== Swim-off ===


=== Final ===


== References ==
Heats Results
Final Results


== External links ==
Official website

Solapur City Central Assembly constituency is one of the 288 Vidhan Sabha (legislative assembly) constituencies of Maharashtra state, western India. This constituency is located in Solapur district, of which Solapur city is the district headquarters, and is part of Solapur Lok Sabha constituency.


== Geographical scope ==
Source:
The constituency comprises ward nos.6, 29 to 39, 44 to 47, 50, 51, 66 to 85, 89 & 90 belong to Solapur Municipal Corporation lying in Solapur North taluka.
Polling booth stations areas & addresses under constituency
Polling booth areas under constituency


== Members of Legislative Assembly ==


== Election results ==


=== Assembly Election 2024 ===


=== Assembly Election 2019 ===


=== Assembly Election 2014 ===


=== Assembly Election 2009 ===


== References ==

The President Gerald R. Ford Jr. Boyhood Home is a house located at 649 Union Avenue SE in Grand Rapids, Michigan that is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Future President Gerald R. Ford lived in the house from 1921 through 1930, when he was between the age of 8 and 17. Of all his boyhood homes, Ford remembered this one most vividly in his autobiography.


== History ==
The house at 649 Union SE was built around 1910. In 1921, Gerald Rudolff Ford suffered financial setback, causing the bank to foreclose on the Fords' home. The family began renting the house on Union Street, and continued renting in until 1925, when they purchased it. While living on Union Street, the younger Gerald Ford attended public schools, first at the Madison School, then South High School, where he participated in organized sports, including, most notably, football. Ford was an All-State center, and during his 1930 senior year, after the family had moved from the Union Street house to East Grand Rapids, was captain of the football team. While living in the house, Ford and his friends used the garage as a social club. Ford recalled, "we learned to play penny-ante poker... it was a great hideaway because my parents wouldn't climb the ladder to the second floor - or so I thought."
It is currently a private residence. In 2013 the house underwent an exterior paint restoration, using seven colors and taking more than 500 man-hours. The work was completed by Third Coast Color Painting Co. of Grand Rapids.


== Description ==
The Union Street house is a 2+1⁄2-story, Colonial Revival structure clad with weatherboarded. It is basically rectangular in plan, with a single-story porch running across the front and a single-story extension in the rear. The roof has side gables, with a single wide dormer on the front of the house. The windows are primarily double-hung, one over one units, save for the attic story, which contains tripartite windows with a fixed center sash and casement sash on either side.


== References ==

Chazel (French pronunciation: [ʃazɛl]) is a municipality in northwestern Quebec, Canada, in the Abitibi-Ouest Regional County Municipality. It had a population of 254 in the 2021 Canadian census.
The municipality was incorporated on February 19, 1938, as the Municipality of Saint-Janvier, and commonly known as Saint-Janvier-de-Chazel. In 1991, it was renamed to Chazel, named after Guillaume Chazel, a French soldier who died in 1725 near Cape Breton.


== History ==
The municipality was founded in 1938 under the name of Saint-Janvier. In 1991, Saint-Janvier changed its name to the current Chazel.


== Geography ==
The municipality is located to the north-east of La Sarre, between Val-Saint-Gilles to the north and Macamic to the south.


== Demographics ==


=== Population ===


=== Language ===


== Government ==
Municipal council (as of 2024):

Mayor: Daniel Favreau
Councillors: Charles Fortin, Serge Morin, Audrey Veillette, Armande Bouchard, Réjean Veillette, Yves Frappier
List of former mayors:

Émilien Savard (...–2005)
Denis Hince (2005–2009)
Daniel Favreau (2009–present)


=== Political representation ===

Provincially it is part of the riding of Abitibi-Ouest. In the 2022 Quebec general election the incumbent MNA Suzanne Blais, of the Coalition Avenir Québec, was re-elected to represent the population of Chazel in the National Assembly of Quebec.
Federally, Chazel is part of the federal riding of Abitibi—Témiscamingue. In the 2021 Canadian federal election, the incumbent Sébastien Lemire of the Bloc Québécois was re-elected to represent the population Chazel in the House of Commons of Canada.


== See also ==
List of municipalities in Quebec


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Saint-Janvier-de-Chazel – Histoire et généalogie et occupation du territoire, published by "Société d'histoire et de généalogie de Val-d'Or", Gisèle Chamberland, 2004, 315 pages (in French)

Davyhulme is an electoral ward of on Trafford Council, Trafford, Greater Manchester, covering Davyhulme. Created in 2023 following changes to the boundaries of the electoral wards, the ward incorporates the former Davyhulme East, Davyhulme West and Flixton wards.


== Councillors ==
The councillors are Sue Maitland (Labour), Billy Burke (Reform), and Barry Winstanley (Labour).

  indicates seat up for re-election.


== Elections in the 2020s ==


=== May 2026 ===


=== May 2024 ===


=== May 2023 ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Trafford Council

"The Black Bull of Norroway" is a fairy tale from Scotland.  A version titled "The Black Bull of Norroway" in the 1870 edition of Popular Rhymes of Scotland was reprinted in an Anglicised version by Joseph Jacobs in his 1894 book More English Fairy Tales.
It was included within The Blue Fairy Book by Andrew Lang, English Fairy Tales by Flora Annie Steel, Scottish Folk Tales by Ruth Manning-Sanders, and A Book Of British Fairytales by Alan Garner. J. R. R. Tolkien cited it in the essay "On Fairy-Stories" as the example of a "eucatastrophe".
It is Aarne–Thompson–Uther type 425A, "The Animal (Monster) as Bridegroom". Others of this type include, The Brown Bear of Norway, The Daughter of the Skies, East of the Sun and West of the Moon, The Enchanted Pig, The Tale of the Hoodie, Master Semolina, The Sprig of Rosemary, The Enchanted Snake, and White-Bear-King-Valemon.


== Synopsis ==
A washerwoman's three daughters each in succession ask her to cook them some food to take with them on a journey to seek their fortune. Along their way, they consult a witch on how to seek the fortune. The woman advised them to look out her back door. On the third day, the eldest sees a coach-and-six come for her and leaves with it, delighted; the second daughter finds a coach-and-four and leaves; but the third and youngest finds only a black bull, which the witch tells her she must accompany.
The daughter is terrified but goes off with the bull, who surprises her by being kind and gentle. When she grows hungry, he tells her to eat out of his right ear, and drink out of his left. The first night of their journey, they arrive at a castle, which, the bull tells the girl, belongs to his eldest brother. The daughter is welcomed and treated lavishly. As a parting gift, she is given a beautiful apple and told to never use it until she comes to the first great need of her life, and then it would help her. The second night of the journey, they once more stay at a castle, this one belonging to the bull's second brother. Once more the daughter receives a parting gift: a beautiful pear that she is not to use until the second great need of her life; the third night, they are hosted at the youngest brother's castle, and the daughter is given a final gift of a beautiful plum, not to be used until the third great need of her life. At last, the girl and the bull arrive at a valley of glass.
"You must wait here," the bull tells the girl, "and whatever you do, do not move, even an inch, or I will not be able to find you". He goes on to explain that he is to fight the devil who rules the valley so that they may exit. If the sky turns blue, then she will know that the bull has won; but if the sky turns red, then he has lost. The black bull leaves the girl there, and after some time she sees the sky turn blue. Overjoyed, the girl shifts her position slightly... and so the black bull does not return for her.
Unable to climb out of the valley on her own, the girl wanders alone until she finds a blacksmith. He tells her that if she serves him for seven years, he will repay her by making her a pair of shoes. When seven years have gone by, the blacksmith, true to his word, makes the girl—now a young woman—a pair of iron shoes, and nails them to her feet. With the shoes, the young woman is able to climb out of the glass valley.
The young woman eventually wanders back to the home of the witch, who offers her shelter if she will wash some bloody shirts that both she and her daughter have been unable to clean. Whoever could clean the shirts would marry the gallant young knight staying at the witch's home, whom the shirts belong to. Despite the failure of those before her, no sooner has the young woman touched the soap to the shirts than the bloodstains vanish, and the young woman's feet heal perfectly, as if they had never been bloodied or injured. Delighted, the witch brings the knight his shirts and convinces him that it was her daughter who cleaned them. Thus, the knight and the witch's daughter are to be married.

Desperate, the young woman realizes that she is in the first great need of her life. She breaks open the apple, and finds it full of rich jewelry. She offers the jewelry to the witch's daughter, in exchange for being allowed to sing outside the knight's room at night. But the witch gives her daughter a sleeping-drink to offer the knight, so the young woman cannot wake him, though she sobs and sings:

"Seven long years I served for thee,
The glassy hill I clamb for thee,
Thy bloody clothes I wrang for thee;
And wilt thou not waken and turn to me?"
She is in the second great need of her life, so she tries the pear, and finds it full of jewelry richer than that of the apple, but the second night goes as before. Finally, the young woman is in the third great need of her life, and breaks the plum to find the richest jewelry yet. This time, though the sleeping-drink is brought again, the knight accidentally knocks it over, so, when the young woman buys her third and final chance, the knight is awake to hear her song. In this way he learns the truth.
The young woman marries the knight, who had been her black bull all along. He has the witch and her daughter burned, and the knight and the washerwoman's youngest daughter live happily ever after.


== Origins ==
English scholar James Orchard Halliwell republished the Scottish tale The Bull of Norroway, in his Popular Rhymes and Nursery Tales, and commented that it was a modern version of the "very old tale" Black Bull of Norroway, mentioned in The Complaynt of Scotland (1548). Similarly, folklorist Joseph Jacobs remarked on its mention in The Complaynt of Scotland and in Philip Sidney's Arcadia.


== Analysis ==


=== Tale type ===
The tale is classified in the international Aarne-Thompson-Uther Index as type ATU 425A, "The Animal as Bridegroom". In this tale type, the heroine is a human maiden who marries a prince that is cursed to become an animal of some sort. She betrays his trust and he disappears, prompting a quest for him.
According to Hans-Jörg Uther, the main feature of tale type ATU 425A is "bribing the false bride for three nights with the husband". In fact, when he developed his revision of Aarne-Thompson's system, Uther remarked that an "essential" trait of the tale type ATU 425A was the "wife's quest and gifts" and "nights bought".


=== Motifs ===
According to Jan-Öjvind Swahn's study on some 1,100 variants of Cupid and Psyche and related types, he concluded that variants with the enchanted bull husband may originate from Ireland or Britain.
The chivalric romance Generides features a garment where the lady's tears can only be washed out by the lady herself. Despite the commonplace status of magical shirts in folktales, this particular detail is so unusual as to point as a source in a fairy tale such as this or The Feather of Finist the Falcon.


== Variants ==


=== Europe ===


==== Scotland ====
Robert Chambers published a similar tale in 1842, in his book Popular Rhymes of Scotland. In this tale, titled The Red Bull of Norroway, which he sourced from Dumfriesshire, a king has three daughters, the elder two ugly and the youngest beautiful and kind. One night, they are talking about their marriage wishes: the elder wants to marry a king, the middle one a prince or great duke, and the youngest wishes for the Red Bull o' Norroway. The next morning, the Red Bull appears at the king's door and demands his wife. The king tries to trick the creature with a henwife, but he notices the deception and turns back. The king then sends his servants, and even his elder daughters, until the monarch is forced to surrender his youngest daughter. The Red Bull takes his intended to a lord's castle where they spend the night. In their chambers, the princess notices a pin on the bull's back and removes it; this turns the bull into a prince. Celebrations are held, but the prince suddenly disappears. The princess, then, begins her wanderings through the world until she finds a hut in the dark woods, where an old woman lives. The old woman gives her three nuts, and the princess departs. Still on her journey, the princess spots a wedding procession for the Duke o' Norroway's wedding, who is the prince. The princess follows the wedding procession to the Duke's castle and cracks open each of the nuts: inside, a "wee wifie" carding, a "wee wifie" spinning, and lastly, a "wee wifie" reeling. The princess uses the spinning instruments to bribe the Duke's bride to allow for one night in the Duke's chambers, one night for each item. The princess tries to wake the Duke on the first two nights by singing sorrowful verses, but he does not budge, since he drank a sleeping potion. The next morning, the Duke asks a servant about the singing he hears in his sleep, and his servant tells him about the mysterious girl that comes to his bed at night. On the third night, the Duke avoids drinking the potion and interacts with the princess, his saviour. The Duke and the princess reunite, while the enchantress flees from the country.
Peter Buchan collected a variant of the story, titled The Brown Bull of Ringlewood. In this tale, the King of Coil gives alms to an old beggar man, who, in gratitude, grants the king's three daughters a wish each. Each of the princesses wishes for a husband: the eldest for the King of Westmoreland, and so it happens. Seeing her sister's good fortune, the middle one asks for the King of Southland as her husband and he appears to court her. Lastly, the youngest jokingly wishes for "The Brown Bull of Ringlewood", and a bull appears not too long after to take her. The Brown Bull comes to take the princess as his wife and to take her to his castle. Once there, he takes off the bull skin and becomes a man at night. The princess bears him three sons. Instructed by an old woman, the princess burns the bull skin and the husband tells her they must go to his father's castle, beyond the sea and up a crystal mountain named Hill of Forgetfulness. The princess takes their children and accompanies her husband to the Hill, asking her how she can join him. However, the human Brown Bull asks her to look between her and the sky; by doing so, she sights a castle where she leaves one of her sons. By looking to the east and the west, she spots two other castles where she leaves her other children to be educated and fed. Meanwhile, the human Brown Bull climbs the Hill and forgets about his wife. Abandoned by her husband, she finds work nearby with a local lord, where she serves for seven years before gaining enough provisions to climb the Hill of Forgetfulness. After doing so, she meets an old woman up the Hill, who asks her to fetch three pears from a tree, in return she will give the girl three eggs for her hour of need. The girl plucks the fruits and gives to the old woman, gaining the three eggs. She then takes lodge inside the castle, where she learns the Prince, her husband, is soon to be married. Downcast, the girl cracks open the three eggs, each egg on each day, and produces marvellous objects: a wheel spinning golden yarn from the first egg, a reel spinning gold yearn from the second egg, and a singing bird from the third. She trades the wheel and the reel on the first two days with the local Princess for a night in the Prince's chambers, and tries to wake him, but he is under a spell by a powder and enchanted bedclothes. On the third day, the singing bird tells the girl about the enchanted bedclothes which place her husband under a spell, and removes them. The Prince wakes up and recognizes his true wife, promising to declare his love in a public manner. Soon enough, the Prince places a chair in the middle of the court room, and announces he will take for wife the one who sits on it. Many try and cannot fit, save for his true wife. The Prince and the girl reunite.


==== Ireland ====
In the tale Tarbh Mór na h-Iorbhaig ("The Great Bull of Irvaig"), three princesses talk about their future husbands, and the third says she wants to marry the Great Bull of Irvaig. The bull himself appears the next week and demands the third princess. He takes his wife to their new home and takes off the cochull or bull cowl, and tells her she must not lay a finger on the cowl, nor must reveal that he is a man under the bull skin. A year passes by and she gives birth to a son, who is taken away from her by a huge hand that come down the chimney. The Bull husband assures their son is safe wherever he is. The same fate befalls their second son. When she gives birth to their third son, she visits her relatives and reveals everything about the bull husband. The third son is also taken by the mysterious hand, as the bull husband enters a frenzied state and takes her back to their island palace. He tells the boys are being kept by three giants, gives her a pair of boots and departs. The princess visits the three giants, receives objects to travel a river of fire, a mountain of glass and a mountain of thorns to reach her husband's kingdom. She then meets a princess by the side of a river who tells her the prince will only marry the one who can wash a stain of blood out of his three white shirts. The tale concludes as the princess spends three nights trying to make her husband remember.
Professor Séamus Ó Duilearga collected a tale from a teller named Seán Ó Conaiill, from County Kerry. In his tale, titled Bull Bhalbhae, three princesses use their father's magical wishing mirror to wish for husbands: the elder for the king of the Western World, the middle one for the king of the Eastern World, and the youngest for the Bull Bhalbhae. Their bridegrooms come to take them to their castles. The titular Bull Bhalbhae takes his bride to his castle and asks the princess which form she prefers: she tells him to be a bull by day and a man by night. Time passes, and the princess is sent by the bull to her father's castle to give birth to their first child (a son). After his birth, a hand comes in from somewhere to take the child. This happens again to the second child (another son). When she is pregnant a third time (to a girl), the bull asks her not to cry over the loss of her child. However, seeing that she is to lose a third child as soon as they are born, she cannot hold back tears and cries on her daughter, which is still taken by the hand. The bull disappears and she goes after him. On the road, she stops to rest by three old women's huts; inside each, she sees each of their children, who gives them a pair of scissors, a comb and a skein of thread. The princess finally reaches the underworld, where he husband is being takes hostage by a hag. The princess bribes the hag with her children's gifts, for three nights with her husband. On the third night, her husband, the bull (now in human form) awakes - since he avoided drinking a sleeping draught. They embrace each other and come up with a plan to defeat the hag. The bull prince pretends to be in love with the hag in order to learn the secret of her external soul: located in an egg, inside a duck, inside an ash-tree. The bull prince destroys the hag's external lifeforce and frees himself to live with the princess. 
Author Seumas MacManus published an Irish variant titled The Cally Coo-Coo o' The Woods. In this tale, the king and queen of Donegal have a magic Wishing-Chair stashed behind a certain door. While their parents are away, the princesses open the door to the room and sit on the chair: the elder wishes for the richest man in the world for her husband, the middle one for the handsomest man, and the youngest, named Maeve, for the "Cally Coo-Coo O' the Woods", a being she thinks to be merely a repetitive echo in the forest. Their husbands of choice come to take them as their brides and, to Maeve's surprise, the Cally Coo-Coo, a bull, appears to marry her. He takes the princess to a waterfall and builds a makeshift house for them. The bull explains that he is a Prince of the East cursed by a witch to be a man by night and a bull by day. Two years into their marriage, Maeve gives birth to a boy in the first year and a girl in the second. Each time, the bull husband warns her that the children will be taken from her, but she cannot shed a tear over their disappearance. She obeys the first time, but cries for her daughter and hides her tear in a handkerchief. Eventually, Maeve's parents invite their daughters and their husbands. Back at her family's castle, her bull husband is mocked by her sisters and brothers-in-law, to the Queen's consternation. Later at night, the queen discovers Cally Coo-Coo's discarded bullskin and decides to burn it. To everyone's horror, Cally Coo-Coo wakes up screaming and demands to know who burned his calfskin, since he was on the brink of breaking his curse. HE then turns into a crow and flies away. Maeve goes after him through hilltops and valleys, until the crow perches on a tree and tells her to seek shelter in a nearby hut. The princess is greeted by a woman. A boy is also there, playing caman. When she departs, the woman gives Maeve a "Needle of Beauty", capable of turning any piece of cloth into beautiful silk. She continues her journey until another woman's hut; inside, also a little girl, missing one of her eyes. The second woman gives her a Towel of Loveliness, for her to beautify herself, and asks Maeve for her handkerchief to restore the little girl's eye. Further ahead, a third woman gives Maeve a Comb of Plenty, to hang pearls and jewels. Following the crow, she finally arrives at the foot of the Hill of Harrow Pins, unreachable on foot. She finds work for a nearby blacksmith, who, after seven years, fashions her a pair of shoes to climb up the Hill of Harrow Pins and down the Hill of Glass. She traverses both hills and finds a castle near a river. Along the river, a group of women trying to wash the bloodstains from a shirt. Maeve succeeds, but a "coarse, big girl" named Eiver takes the credit and is set to marry the Prince of the East. The next three days, Maeve bribes Eiver and a scullion maid to nurse the prince, one night for each gift. On the third night, the prince awakes and embraces his wife. He banishes Eiver and celebrates a new marriage to Maeve.
In another Irish tale, The Roarin’ Bull of Orange, a king has a wishing chair that he forbids his three daughters to sit on. One day, while he is away, the three princess sit on the chair and make wishes for husbands: the elder asks for the "Rumblin’ Baker", the middle one for the Man from No Man's Land, and the youngest for "The Roarin’ Bull of Orange". The next day, the three men appear at the castle to fetch their respective wives, but on the Roarin’ Bull of Orange's turn, the king tries to trick him with another girl. The Roarin’ Bull of Orange notices the ruse and gets the true princess. The bull takes her to his castle, but the king follows him with his army. The king enters the castle and finds a human asleep on the bed, with a bull's hide inside it. The king burns the bull's hide and goes back home. The next morning, the human Bull of Orange awakes and, not seeing his bull's hide, tells his wife her father ruined them. He then turns into a bird and flies away, and the princess follows after him. After a while, the bird takes her to a castle, where the princess lives and gives birth to three babies in the following years. Each time, however, a bird flies in and takes the child from her; the third baby loses an eye because the princess held on to her so tight. Later, continuing on her quest, the princess meets three old women in three huts, who are taking care of her children, and each give her a gift (a rack in the first, scissors in the second, and a needle in the third). The princess then uses the rack to cross the Red Sea, the scissors to traverse the Glassy Mountain, and the needle to bypass the Fiery Mountain. Finally, she reaches a castle atop a hill, where an old witch lives. The princess uses the scissors, the rack and the needle to bribe the old witch for three nights with her husband, The Roarin’ Bull of Orange. At his bedside, the princess tries to wake him up (she calls him both "Roarin’ Bull of Orange" and "Green Bull of Orange"), but can only wake him on the third night. The Bull of Orange, now human, wakes up and tells the princess he will find out about the witch's external life, so they break the curse once and for all. Naïvely, the witch tells the human Bull of Orange her life is hidden in an egg, in a bird's nest, atop a tree. The Bull of Orange and a servant find the egg and throw it at the witch's forehead, killing her and undoing her enchantments.
In a variant from County Leitrim, The Glass Mountains, a man enchanted into bull form marries a human wife, and she tells him she prefers for him to be human during the night. He also tells her that, whenever she gives birth, she must not shed a tear to whatever happens to their child. Just as his husband promised, a black dog comes down the chimney and takes the child from her - this happens to her first two sons. When she gives birth to a daughter and the black dog comes, the wife sheds a tear and her husband disappears. She goes in search for him. She finds a cottage with an old couple and a little boy (her son). She spends the night and when she is leaving the boy gives her a comb. This happens again in the next house, and her second son gives her a pair of scissors. The maiden arrives at last at the foot of the titular Glass Mountain, where lies another house with an elderly couple with her daughter. The third old man tells her that her husband is married to another woman and they live at the castle atop the Glass Mountain. Her daughter gives her an egg and she departs to climb the mountain. She asks for shelter at the castle and buys her place at her husband's bed with the gifts her children gave her.
Mabel Peacock wrote down another variant of The Glass Mountain from County Leitrim, which she claimed was "imperfect" and told to her when she was a child. In this version, a woman lived with her three daughters in a cottage. A man comes and asks for night lodgings. The matriarch relents and gives him shelter. The next day, the man asks for the hand of the youngest daughter in marriage. They marry and go to his castle, where he asks her which form she prefers: for him to be a bull or man during each time of the day. She prefers for him to be a man by night. Three children are born, and she wishes to visit her mother. She reveals the strange nature of her husband, he disappears and she seeks him with her children. However, Mabel Peacock noted that the tale, as given to her, was "defective", but she noted down the song the maiden sings to her sleeping husband to jog his memory, referring to him as the "Bare bull of Orange".


=== Americas ===


==== United States ====
In a variant from New England, The Three Maids who Went to Seek Their Fortunes, three girls went about the world to look for their fortunes. They stop at a crossroads and go their separate ways. After some walking, she looks despondent for having accomplished nothing that day, and a witch gives her an egg, telling her to break it should the need arise. She walks a bit more and reaches a fountain where washerwomen were trying to wash a handkerchief with blood on it, because, should one of them do it, they would marry the prince. The girl tries and accomplishes it. She marries the prince and discovers he becomes a bull by day, human by night. He must suffer the enchantment for seven years. By the end of this period, he regains human form.
In a tale from the Wisconsin Chippewa, collected in 1944 in Lac du Flambeau, from teller Maggie Christensen and titled The Girl Who Married an Ox, an old woman lives with her three daughters. One day, an ox appears in their house and declares he wants to marry one of the woman's daughters. Only the youngest agrees to marry him. He becomes human and tells her that he must suffer his curse for 20 years. They have a son, but his wife eventually betrays his secret. She goes after him and, on her journey, gains a comb. She finally arrives at another kingdom, where her husband, now human, is set to marry a queen. The queen sees the comb and wants to trade it, but the girl asks for a night with the man. The husband drinks a cup of a potion and falls asleep. The next night, the girl wakes her husband and he recognizes her.
American folklorist Leonard W. Roberts collected a tale from a Kentucky teller. In this tale, titled Bully Bornes, a rich man has three daughters, Kate, Sally and Judy. One day, he finds in an antique shop a "Wishing Chair" and brings it home. When their daughters see it, they each sit and make a wish for a husband: Kate asks for the most handsome man, Sally for the ugliest man, and Judy for Bully Bornes, the prize fighter. Their wishes come true and their husbands come to marry them. Bully Bornes appears last and demands Judy. The girls' father sends a kitchen maid, but Bully notices the deception and insists on getting Judy. Judy is given to Bully and they marry. They have three children in the next years and, after each birth, Bully orders her not to cry if anything happens to their baby, otherwise he will abandon her. Each time, a bulldog appears and takes the child away from her. The third time, Judy cries over her lost child, Bully Bornes packs up his things and leaves. Judy goes after him: he visits his each of his sisters for the next three years, and so does Judy. At last, after a round of prize fighting, Bully Bornes soils his shirt with drops of his blood and declares he shall marry the woman that can wash it off. Many women queue up to wash it, his wife Judy included. Judy manages to accomplish it, but another girl steals the credit for it and marries Bully. Judy goes after the couple and asks the girl to see Bully Bornes for one night. The woman allows it, but gives Bully a coffee laced with sleeping powder. For two nights, Judy cannot awake him. On the third day, an old man - Bully's tenant - tells him about someone coming at night to see him. The third night, Bully does not drink the potion and recognizes Judy. They go back home and take their children back.
Roberts collected a tale from Cumberland Gap with the title The Pretty Girl and Her Lost Children. In this tale, three girls live together: a cook, a cleaning lady and Pretty Girl. One day, they go to bathe and comment who they wish to appear when they come home. The cook wishes for the "purtiest" man in the world, the cleaner for the ugliest man and Pretty Girl for Bully Bornes. When the girls come home, the men they wished for come to their house. Pretty Girl's parents, however, refuse to let their daughter go with Bully Bornes, so they replace her for the maidservants. Twice, Bully Bornes discovers the ruse, then goes back a third time for his true intended. Bully Bornes and Pretty Girl live together for three years and have three children (three girls), but he eventually abandons her and leaves her with their children. While living alone, Pretty Girl sees an old black dog come and take her children, one each time. After the third time, she follows the dog and reaches an old woman's house, where she sees her eldest daughter. The old woman gives her a ball of yarn. Next, she reaches another woman's house where her second child is, and is given an egg. Lastly, she reaches a third house with her third child and a third woman, who gives her an apple. Later, Pretty Girl goes to see Bully Bornes fight against an opponent. During the fight, three drops of his blood fall on his shirt, and, after the fight, he announces he will marry the girl who can wash it. Pretty Girl washes it, but another girl steals the credit and shows it to Bully Bornes, who declares he will marry her. Pretty Girl cracks open the women's gifts and finds three pictures: one of a woman carding silk, a second with a woman spinning silk and the third with a woman weaving silk. She uses the pictures to bribe the false bride for three nights with Bully Bornes. After two nights where he was given a spoon of lodma, Pretty Girl wakes him up on the third night and they return home to their children. Roberts sourced the tale from an informant named Fae Chadwell Gibson, in Knox County, Kentucky, who learned it from her grandmother.


==== Canada ====
In a tale from Newfoundland from teller Alice Lannon, titled The Big Black Bull of Hollow Tree, three sisters, Dinah, Marie and Kitty, live with their grandmother, who forbids them from entering a certain part of the garden. They disobey her orders and find there a wishing chair and make their wishes for a husband: Dinah and Marie wish for "nice young men", while Kitty wants to marry "The Big Black Bull of Hollow Tree". Some time later, during a celebration, a big black bull appears to take Kitty as his wife. The girl relents and goes with him. He takes off his bull skin and becomes a man, and tells his wife not to tell anyone. After some time into their marriage, Kitty's grandmother sees her granddaughter in the arms of the man, while his bull skin lay strewn in the floor near the bed. The old woman takes the skin and burns it. The husband vanishes and Kitty goes after him. On the way, she finds three houses, each with a young woman inside and some children playing. In each of the houses, Kitty notices a particular child that look like either her daughter or one of her sons. Kitty receives a ball, a table cloth and shears. She later finds her husband, the (now human) Black Bull under the power of an old witch. She uses the table-cloth and shears to trade two nights with her husband, but the old witch gives him a sleeping potion during the first two nights.


==== West Indies ====
Martha Warren Beckwith collected a Jamaican variant titled Bull-of-all-the-Land, wherein the titular Bull-of-all-the-Land is a man named King Henry, who is a man at night and a bull by day when he wears his bull skin. His wife burns the bull skin and he disappears. She bleeds three drops of blood in a white shirt. She wears three pairs of shoes and goes to a riverside, where she meets a washerwoman. The washerwoman washes the blood-soaked shirt and goes to King Henry. The maiden is taken to King Henry's palace, and tries to talk to her husband. On the last night, she sings in his ear his name, "Bull-of-all-the-Land", since no one in his realm knows that name.


=== Other publications ===
Mrs. Caroline Alathea Creevey, in her autobiography, published a version she claimed she heard in her childhood from a Julia Congden, her mother's hired girl. In her tale, The Brown Bull of Orange, once there was a stile that granted wishes. Three sisters pass by it, the oldest wishes for the Prince of Spain and the middle one for the Duke of Algiers as their respective husbands. The youngest, not believing in its powers, mockingly wishes for the brown bull of Orange to appear and take her. The Prince and the Duke appear and make her sisters their wives. At last, a brown bull appears at her father's doorstep. The third daughter tries to dismiss the bull and her silly wishes, but the bull will not yield. She finally agrees to with the animal. The brown bull takes her to his palace and attends her with kindness. She eventually warms up to him and is asked by him if she loves him. She answers positively and the bull becomes a man, the King of Orange and Castile. He explains that a magician turned him into a bull and that he could only turn back into human form if he could find a girl to love him.
Mabel Peacock noted another tale inserted in Mary Hallock Foote's tale, The Last Assembly Ball, published in The Century Magazine. In this version, a king has six daughters and a magical wishing-chair on a dais. Every daughter sits on the chair and makes her wish. When it is the youngest's turn, she wishes to be married to the "Roan Bull of Orange". Some time later, the Roan Bull himself appears at the palace and demands the princess. The king tries to substitute his daughter for the daughter of the hen-wife and the daughter of the swineherd. The Roan Bull discovers the ruse by giving his bride-to-be a white wand. He gets his true bride at last and departs with her.


== See also ==

Cupid and Psyche
Nix Nought Nothing
Pintosmalto
The Feather of Finist the Falcon
The Singing, Springing Lark
The Three Princesses of Whiteland
The Two Kings' Children
Europa (consort of Zeus)


== References ==


== External links ==
Black Bull of Norroway (en), edition by Neil Philip

Warren Wain Lee (born 27 August 1987) is an English former professional cricketer who played List A cricket for Kent County Cricket Club and Unicorns. Lee was born in India at  New Delhi and educated at Eaglesfield School and Shooters Hill Sixth Form College in Greenwich in south-east London.
A right arm medium-fast bowler, Lee played Second XI cricket for Kent from 2006 before making his List A cricket debut for Kent against Somerset in April 2009.
He played twice for Kent in 2009 before his contract was renewed at the end the season, but was released by the county part way through the 2010 season. He also made appearances for the Second XIs of Middlesex, Surrey and Worcestershire before playing for Unicorns in 11 List A matches in 2012 and 2013.
Lee has played for Blackheath and Bickley Park in the Kent Cricket League and has appeared for MCC in non-first-class matches.


== References ==


== External links ==
Warren Lee at Cricinfo

The Brandon Valley School District is a public school district in Minnehaha County, based in Brandon, South Dakota. It serves the communities of Brandon and the nearby town of Valley Springs.


== History ==
Brandon Elementary School was the start of the district in 1916. Additions were made in the 1930s and in 1987. The Brandon Valley Performing Arts Center, which seats 800 people, opened in 1999.
In 2003, Robert Bennis Elementary School opened to serve students in the southern half of Brandon. Fred Assam Elementary opened in 2009 to relieve pressure on the two elementary Schools in Brandon.


== Schools ==

The Brandon Valley School District has five elementary schools, one intermediate school, one middle school, and one high school.


=== Elementary schools ===
Brandon Elementary School
Fred Assam Elementary School
Robert Bennis Elementary School
Valley Springs Elementary School
Inspiration Elementary School


== Notable Graduates ==
Dale Moss – former football player and contestant on the 16th season of The Bachelorette.
Cody Strand – former Book Of Mormon Actor


== References ==

The Collegian or Willamette Collegian is the student-run newspaper of Willamette University in Salem, Oregon, United States. Founded in 1875, the weekly paper has been in continuous publication since 1889. It is a member of the College Publisher Network.


== History ==
In 1842, the Oregon Institute opened, later becoming Willamette University. The Collegian newspaper began printing in 1875. The paper was re-established in 1889, and by 1908 the monthly paper was selling for $1. In 1948, the newspaper for a record a sixteenth year in a row was named an all-star publication by the National Pacemaker Awards, a national record. Also that year the paper made statewide news with the publication of an interview with Oregon governor John Hubert Hall regarding race relations. In November 2000, the paper selected presidential candidate Ralph Nader as its athlete of the week, pining that he was responsible for the outcome of the election.
In 2001, the paper earned several distinctions from the Oregon Newspaper Publishers Association in its division, including best cartooning, best writing, and best editorial. The following year it won for best news story, best review, and was honorable mention for overall excellence. In the 2004 contest The Collegian won for best design. In 2005, the paper received an honorable mention for best graphic.  In 2008, the Collegian won several awards including a general excellence honorable mention, best writing, best news story, best editorial, best review, best columnist, best sports photo, and best cartooning.
Old copies of the newspaper are archived at the Mark O. Hatfield Library on campus.


== References ==

Saichiro Misumi (Misumi, Saichirō (三角 佐一郎) 16 June 1916 –  23 February 2018) was a Japanese indologist, former executive director and the incumbent advisor of the Japan-India Association. He is a World War II veteran, a former Indian National Army officer and an associate of Subhash Chandra Bose, renowned Indian nationalist. Narendra Modi, the Indian Prime Minister, visited him on 2 September 2014 during the former's official visit to Japan and the meeting was widely covered in Indian media. The Ministry of External Affairs, India have drawn up a project to record Misumi's life and times by way of a documentary film, for which they have invited expression of interest. He was honoured by the Government of India in 2015 with the Padma Bhushan, the third highest Indian civilian award for his contributions towards promoting India-Japan relations.


== See also ==


== References ==


== External links ==
"When PM Modi Met Netaji's Oldest Living Associate". YouTube video. Express News Channel. 2 September 2014. Retrieved 6 February 2015.

SVG-TV is the national television station of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, owned by SVGBC. The station's main transmitter broadcasts on channel 9, with several other low-powered relay stations (7, 10, 11, 13 and 14).


== History ==
SVG-TV started broadcasting on March 2, 1980. In the mid-1980s it took part in a six-island project financed by IPDC.
Unlike its competitors, SVG-TV is the only channel that broadcasts its signal over-the-air. By the early 2000s, the channel was affiliated to CBS, as well as having agreements with CNN and the Barbadian Caribbean Media Corporation. Main programmes at the time included the news, Jamz TV produced by sister radio station Hitz FM, Take Two, Sportweek and Inside Out. Key foreign programmes were Sunset+Vine's Gillette World Sport and the CBS newsmagazine 60 Minutes, aired live on Sundays in place of the 7pm news. Most of the local programmes disappeared by the late 2000s, with only The Evening News and Sportweek surviving. Business Round Table replaced the slot left out by 60 Minutes.
As of 2011, SVG-TV employed a staff of 40, having increased its local output, and with hopes that the broadcaster would reach the levels of the BBC and CNN. For Emancipation Month that year (August) it introduced Chronicles of the Community: beyond the surface, about the facets of life in the country. In 2013, it was carrying the Caribbean Professional League, for which it had paid a sum between US$3,000 and 5,000 without sponsorship agreements.
Since Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is one of the few countries in the world that recognize Taiwan as the legitimate Chinese government, SVG-TV has routinely received foreign support from Taiwan. On January 17, 2019, SVG-TV signed an agreement to air the Taiwanese drama series The New World, produced by Taiwan Television.


== References ==

Mirian Tsalkalamanidze (Georgian: მირიან ცალქალამანიძე, 20 April 1927 – 3 August 2000) was a Georgian flyweight freestyle wrestler. He competed for the Soviet Union at the 1956 Olympics and won a gold medal in the 52 kg division. At the world championships he placed third in 1954 and second in 1957.
Tsalkalamanidze initially trained in chidaoba, the Georgian traditional wrestling, and changed to freestyle wrestling only in 1951, aged 24. He won the Soviet freestyle championships in 1954 in 1956, placing third in 1955.


== References ==

Azumi (あずみ) is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Yū Koyama. It was serialized in Shogakukan's seinen manga magazine Big Comic Superior from 1994 to 2008, with its chapters collected in 48 tankōbon volumes. A sequel series with the same title (rendered in all caps Latin-script) was serialized in the same magazine from 2008 to 2014, with its chapters collected in 18 tankōbon volumes. The story follows the title character, a young woman, brought up as part of a team of assassins charged with killing the warlords that threaten the uneasy peace in Feudal Japan in the aftermath of its long Sengoku civil war period.
The series has been adapted into two feature films starring Aya Ueto, Azumi in 2003 and Azumi 2: Death or Love in 2005, and a video game and a stage play in 2005.
Azumi received the Excellence Prize at the 1997 Japan Media Arts Festival and won the 43rd Shogakukan Manga Award in the general category in 1998.


== Plot ==
Azumi is a young female assassin operating after the Battle of Sekigahara. She eliminates supporters of the Toyotomi clan at the behest of Tokugawa Ieyasu, with these killings historically recorded as natural deaths. Raised in isolation by instructor Gensai Obata in Kiridani valley, Azumi trains with nine male students unaware of basic societal concepts. Their training culminates in two brutal initiation missions: first killing their closest companions (Azumi slays Nachi), then massacring an entire ninja village. As one of five surviving operatives, Azumi conducts political assassinations. Her work brings her into conflict with bandits, later revealed to be displaced samurai forced into criminality by Tokugawa policies. Throughout her missions, Azumi demonstrates exceptional survival skills compared to other warriors driven by singular motivations.


== Media ==


=== Manga ===
Written and illustrated by Yū Koyama, Azumi was serialized in Shogakukan's seinen manga magazine from 1994 to 2008. Shogakukan collected its chapters in forty-eight tankōbon volumes, released from January 30, 1995, to February 27, 2009. Shogakukan re-released the series in a twenty-four volume bunkoban edition, from January 14 to December 15, 2012.
A sequel series, also titled Azumi (Latin-script title in all caps), was serialized in the same magazine from December 26, 2008, to February 28, 2014. Shogakukan collected its chapters in eighteen tankōbon volumes, released from June 30, 2009, to April 30, 2014.


=== Film series ===

Azumi was loosely adapted into an live-action film directed by Ryuhei Kitamura in 2003. A sequel, Azumi 2: Death or Love, directed by Shusuke Kaneko, followed in 2005.


=== Video game ===
An action game for PlayStation 2, based on manga's original story, was developed by Gargoyle Mechanics and released in Japan only by Entertainment Software Publishing in 2005. The game was also re-released as part of the budget-range Simple series (Vol. 32).


=== Stage play ===
The theatrical version, directed by Okamura Toshikazu, premiered on April 3, 2005, starring Meisa Kuroki as Azumi.


=== Merchandise ===
Azumi Original Soundtrack containing music from the film was released by For Life Music in 2003. Azumi figure line based on the manga version was released by figuAX in 2006.


== Reception ==
Azumi received an Excellence Prize at the 1997 Japan Media Arts Festival, and won the 43rd Shogakukan Manga Award in the general category in 1998.


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Gifford, Kevin. "Azumi". (November 2006) Newtype USA. p. 154.


== External links ==
Official video game website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2010-09-30) (in Japanese)
Azumi (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia

Ochakovo is a Russian beverage company producing both alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks. Focused mainly on the production of beer and kvas, Ochakovo ranks among the leaders in the latter category within the Russian Federation, being the second largest brand by market share in 2018. In addition to its own brands, Ochakovo produces drinks wholesale for Russian retailers such as X5 Retail Group.


== History ==
Ochakovo was originally founded in 1978 as the Russian: Московский пиво-безалкогольный комбинат, romanized: Moskovskiy pivo-belalkogolnyi kombinat, lit. 'Moscow beer and non-alcoholic [beverages] plant', a state-owned company, with a view to producing beverages for participants and spectators in the upcoming 1980 Moscow Olympics. In 1993 the plant was privatised, becoming a joint-stock company. While the firm maintains a respectable position within Russia, and has managed to open up foreign markets since the dissolution of the USSR, Ochakovo has slowly been losing market share in both the alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverage segments under pressure from multinational competitors such as Carlsberg, Coca-Cola and PepsiCo as well as from newer Russian firms such as Deka, going from holding a 39% of the market share for kvas production in 2009 to 18% in 2018.
In the aftermath of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, the company announced it was introducing a new line of soft drinks, allegedly intended as a substitute, or at least as competition, for Western brands that are expected to either withdraw from the Russian market or progressively reduce their production. In May 2022 Ochakovo launched Cool Cola (cola-flavoured), Fancy (orange-flavoured) and Street (lemon and lime-flavoured) as substitutes for Coca-Cola and Pepsi, Fanta and Mirinda, and Sprite and 7 Up, respectively. In June of the same year the company announced plans to launch apple cider production in the territory of Krasnodar Krai under the brand name Will's, with a view to replacing the main cider producers in the country, Heineken and Carlsberg, who announced their withdrawal from the Russian market.


== Museum of Traditional Beverages ==
The company also operates the Museum of Traditional Russian Beverages. Opened in 2005, the museum claims to be the only one of its kind in Russia, exhibiting kvas- and beer-making tools and equipment, different brewing procedures and offering a degustation of the company's products.


== Brands ==
Excluding production for retail chains, Ochakovo sells their products under the following brands, according to the company's website (in Russian):
Beer:

Zhigulyovskoe
456
L.E.P.
Sekret Pivovara
Yachmenny Kolos
Khalzan (alcoholic and non-alcoholic)
Steppenwolf
Altstein
Zlatovice
Ledokol (strong beers)
Ochakovo
Pugach
Bottled water:

Gorny khrustal'
Carbonated drinks:

Reddot (Cola with no refined sugars)
Cocktails:

BlackMix
Mokhito
Ochakovo
RedRay
Energy drinks:

Fitoenerdzhi (kvas with guarana)
Powran
Hard seltzers:

Street
Juice:

Sochnaya komanda
Goodini
Akh! (traditional Russian flavours such as tarkhun)
Mokhito
Street
CoolCola
Fancy

Kvas:

Kvasyonok (alcohol-free kvas for children)
Ochakovsky
Semeyny sekret
Medovukha:

Medovukha polusladkaya
Medovukha traditsionnaya
Vodka:

Ochakovskaya
Zapal
Wines:

Avtokhtonnoe
Butterfly
Kuban
Tamani
Yubileynoe


== References ==

Paul Marie Victor Stehlin (11 August 1907 – 22 June 1975) was a French general and politician.


== Military career ==
Born in Hochfelden, Bas-Rhin, Stehlin spoke fluent German. He graduated from the French military academy in 1928.
He was deputy air attaché in Berlin from 1935 to 1939, and took part in the Munich Conference.
In the Second World War, he took part in the Norwegian campaign in 1940 and then commanded the III/6 Roussillon Fighter Group.
He was captured by Nazi Germany in 1941, but escaped to Africa. Initially stationed in Dakar (Fighter Group I/4), he then participated in the Anglo-American landing in North Africa and was liaison officer with the Allied air forces for General de Gaulle.
Promoted to colonel in 1946, he was military attaché in London from 1947 to 1950. He was promoted to Air Brigadier General in 1950, and was, from 1952 to 1954, deputy chief of staff to René Pleven, Minister of National Defence. From 1954 to 1956, he was deputy head of the French delegation to the NATO standing group in Washington. Promoted to air division general in 1956, he became commander of the First Tactical Air Command and of the French Air Force in West Germany. In 1958, he became, for a short period, deputy of the IV Allied Tactical Air Force. In 1959, he was appointed major general of the armed forces. In 1960, after being promoted to the rank of air force general, he succeeded Edmond Jouhaud as chief of staff of the air force.


== Business and political career ==
Stehlin retired from the military on grounds of age in September 1963. He wrote his memoirs, Testimony for History, which won the Ambassadors' Prize. He also wrote a book criticising the French nuclear capability.
He became Vice President of Europe for Hughes Aircraft (1964), Vice President of Bugatti (1965) and Chairman and CEO of Algeco (1968).
In 1968, he was elected to the National Assembly for Paris's 21st constituency, representing Progress and Modern Democracy. He was reelected in 1973 for the Social Democratic Reformers.
In 1974 he published a memorandum to the French president, advocating American fighter jets over French. This caused a scandal and was debated in the national assembly. On 6 June 1975, a United States Senate subcommittee revealed that Northrop Corporation had made "dubious" payments to European parliamentarians and former high-ranking officers, including Paul Stehlin, who had been paid as a "consultant" since 1964. The same day, Stehlin was knocked down by a bus in Paris. He died of his injuries on 22 June 1975.


== Personal life ==
He married Anne-Marie Schwob in 1951. They had one son, Marc.


== Honours ==
Grand Cross of the Legion of Honor
War Cross 1939–1945
Medal of Aeronautics
Commander of the Order of Alaouite Ouissam


== Books ==
Testimony for History, Robert Laffont, 1964
Back to Zero, Robert Laffont, 1968
The Force of Illusion, Robert Laffont, 1973 (ISBN 978-2221039298)
France Disarmed, Calmann Levy, 1974


== References ==

Robert Raihania Randell (born April 8, 1967) is a New Zealand-born American former international rugby union player.
Born in Hawke's Bay, Randell was educated at Church College, a Mormon private school in Hamilton. He represented New Zealand Secondary Schools in both rugby union and water polo, before moving to the United States. Randell is of Māori descent.
Randell, a lock, competed on the United States national team from 1993 to 1997, earning 12 caps. He played his club rugby in California for Old Blues and Belmont Shore. Settling in Utah, Randell has held several coaching positions since retiring, including working as a forwards coach for the Utah Warriors.


== See also ==
List of United States national rugby union players


== References ==


== External links ==
Rob Randell at ESPNscrum (archived)

Suyetsky District (Russian: Суетский райо́н) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the fifty-nine districts in Altai Krai, Russia. It is located in the northwest of the krai. The area of the district is 1,108 square kilometers (428 sq mi). Its administrative center is the rural locality (a selo) of Verkh-Suyetka. As of the 2010 Census, the total population of the district was 5,120, with the population of Verkh-Suyetka accounting for 43.4% of that number.


== History ==
The district was established on January 15, 1944 when Altai Krai was divided into districts. It was abolished in 1962 and re-established in 1989.


== References ==


=== Notes ===


=== Sources ===
Алтайский краевой Совет народных депутатов. Закон №28-ЗС от 1 марта 2008 г. «Об административно-территориальном устройстве Алтайского края», в ред. Закона №16-ЗС от 4 апреля 2017 г. «О присоединении станции Железнодорожная Казарма 572 км к посёлку Октябрьскому Октябрьского сельсовета Кулундинского района Алтайского края и внесении изменений в отдельные законы Алтайского края». Вступил в силу 8 марта 2008 г. Опубликован: "Алтайская правда", №67, 8 марта 2008 г. (Altai Krai Council of People's Deputies. Law #28-ZS of March 1, 2008 On the Administrative-Territorial Structure of Altai Krai, as amended by the Law #16-ZS of April 4, 2017 On Merging the Station of Zheleznodorozhnaya Kazarma 572 km into the Settlement of Oktyabrsky in Oktyabrsky Selsoviet of Kulundinsky District of Altai Krai and on Amending Various Laws of Altai Krai. Effective as of March 8, 2008.).
Алтайский краевой Совет народных депутатов. Закон №17-ЗС от 7 марта 2006 г. «О статусе и границах муниципальных и административно-территориальных образований Суетского района Алтайского края», в ред. Закона №79-ЗС от 29 ноября 2016 г. «О внесении изменений в Закон Алтайского края "О статусе и границах муниципальных и административно-территориальных образований Суетского района Алтайского края"». Вступил в силу через 10 дней со дня официального опубликования. Опубликован: "Алтайская правда", №72–73 (без приложений), 18 марта 2006 г. (Altai Krai Council of People's Deputies. Law #17-ZS of March 7, 2006 On the Status and the Borders of the Municipal and the Administrative-Territorial Formations of Suyetsky District of Altai Krai, as amended by the Law #79-ZS of November 29, 2016 On Amending the Law of Altai Krai "On the Status and the Borders of the Municipal and the Administrative-Territorial Formations of Suyetsky District of Altai Krai". Effective as of after 10 days from the day of the official publication.).

Naphthalene is an organic compound with the chemical formula C10H8. It is a white crystalline solid with a characteristic odor that is detectable at concentrations as low as 0.08 ppm. As an aromatic hydrocarbon, naphthalene's structure consists of a fused pair of benzene rings, making it a simple and rather symmetrical polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH). It is the main ingredient of traditional mothballs.


== History ==
Alexander Garden first reported he had crystalised from the distillate (of coal tar) "a silvery solid that resembled Camphor and Benzoic Acid" in 1819. Further sources credit Garden with the discovery. Two days after Garden's paper was submitted, William Thomas Brande submitted his paper, and John Kidd followed with "a longer and more thorough examination of the same solid, finding that it was composed of carbon and a little hydrogen". Garden and Brande's separate discoveries were both published in 1820. In 1821, John Kidd described many of this substance's properties and the means of its production. He proposed the name naphthaline as it had been derived from a kind of naphtha, a broad term for various volatile, flammable liquid hydrocarbon mixtures, including coal tar. Naphthalene's chemical formula was determined by Michael Faraday in 1826.
The structure of two fused benzene rings was proposed by Emil Erlenmeyer in 1866, and confirmed by Carl Gräbe three years later.


== Structure ==
A naphthalene molecule can be viewed as the fusion of a pair of benzene rings. (In organic chemistry, rings are fused if they share two or more atoms.) The eight carbon atoms that are not shared by the two rings carry one hydrogen atom each. For purpose of the standard IUPAC nomenclature of derived compounds, those eight atoms are numbered 1 through 8 in sequence around the perimeter of the molecule, starting with a carbon atom adjacent to a shared one. The shared carbon atoms are labeled 4a (between 4 and 5) and 8a (between 8 and 1).
The molecule is planar, like benzene. Unlike benzene, the carbon–carbon bonds in naphthalene are not of the same length. The bonds C1−C2, C3−C4, C5−C6 and C7−C8 are about 1.37 Å (137 pm) in length, whereas the other carbon–carbon bonds are about 1.42 Å (142 pm) long. This difference, established by X-ray diffraction, is consistent with the valence bond model in naphthalene and in particular, with the theorem of cross-conjugation. This theorem would describe naphthalene as an aromatic benzene unit bonded to a diene but not extensively conjugated to it (at least in the ground state), which is consistent with two of its three resonance structures.

Because of this resonance, the molecule has bilateral symmetry across the plane of the shared carbon pair, as well as across the plane that bisects bonds C2-C3 and C6-C7, and across the plane of the carbon atoms. Thus there are two sets of equivalent hydrogen atoms: the alpha positions, numbered 1, 4, 5, and 8, and the beta positions, 2, 3, 6, and 7. Two isomers are then possible for mono-substituted naphthalenes, corresponding to substitution at an alpha or beta position.

Structural isomers of naphthalene that have two fused aromatic rings include azulene, which has a 5–7 fused ring system, and Bicyclo[6.2.0]decapentaene which has a fused 4–8 ring system.


=== Electrical conductivity ===
Pure crystalline naphthalene is a moderate insulator at room temperature, with resistivity of about 1012 Ω·m. The resistivity drops more than a thousandfold on melting, to about 4×108 Ω·m. Both in the liquid and in the solid, the resistivity depends on temperature as:

ρ = ρ0 × exp⁠E/kT⁠
Where ρ0 (Ω·m) and (eV) are constant parameters, k is the Boltzmann constant (8.617×10−5 eV/K), and T is absolute temperature (K). The parameter E is 0.73 in the solid. However, the solid shows semiconducting character below 100 K (−280 °F; −173 °C).


== Chemical properties ==


=== Reactions with electrophiles ===
In electrophilic aromatic substitution reactions, naphthalene reacts more readily than benzene. For example, chlorination and bromination of naphthalene proceeds without a catalyst to give 1-chloronaphthalene and 1-bromonaphthalene, respectively. Likewise, whereas both benzene and naphthalene can be alkylated using Friedel–Crafts reaction conditions, naphthalene can also be easily alkylated by reaction with alkenes or alcohols, using sulfuric or phosphoric acid catalysts.
Anhydrous aluminium chloride reacts with naphthalene to give a polymer, in which one ring of each naphthalene monomer loses aromaticity, linking to the other monomers at the 1 and 4 positions.
In terms of regiochemistry, electrophiles attack at the alpha position. The selectivity for alpha over beta substitution can be rationalized in terms of the resonance structures of the intermediate: for the alpha substitution intermediate, seven resonance structures can be drawn, of which four preserve an aromatic ring. For beta substitution, the intermediate has only six resonance structures, and only two of these are aromatic. Sulfonation gives the "alpha" product naphthalene-1-sulfonic acid as the kinetic product but naphthalene-2-sulfonic acid as the thermodynamic product. The 1-isomer forms predominantly at 25 °C (77 °F), and the 2-isomer at 160 °C (320 °F).
Sulfonation to give the 1- and 2-sulfonic acid occurs readily:

H2SO4 + C10H8  →  C10H7SO3H + H2O
Further sulfonation give di-, tri-, and tetrasulfonic acids.


=== Reduction and oxidation ===
With alkali metals, naphthalene forms the dark blue-green radical anion salts such as sodium naphthalenide, Na+[C10H8]−. The naphthalene anions are strong reducing agents.
Naphthalene can be hydrogenated under high pressure in the presence of metal catalysts to give tetralin (C10H12). Further hydrogenation yields decalin (C10H18).
Oxidation with O2 in the presence of vanadium pentoxide (V2O5) as catalyst gives phthalic anhydride:

C10H8 + 4.5 O2  →  C6H4(CO)2O + 2 CO2 + 2 H2O
This reaction is the basis of the main use of naphthalene. Oxidation can also be effected using conventional stoichiometric chromate or permanganate reagents.


== Production ==

From the 1960s until the 1990s, significant amounts of naphthalene were produced from heavy petroleum fractions during refining, but present-day production is mainly from coal tar. As of 2023, the global naphthalene market was 2.25 million tons.
Naphthalene is the most abundant single component of coal tar. The composition of coal tar varies with coal type and processing, but typical coal tar is about 10% naphthalene by weight. In industrial practice, distillation of coal tar yields an oil containing about 50% naphthalene, along with twelve other aromatic compounds. This oil, after being washed with aqueous sodium hydroxide to remove acidic components (chiefly various phenols), and with sulfuric acid to remove basic components, undergoes fractional distillation to isolate naphthalene. The crude naphthalene resulting from this process is about 95% naphthalene by weight. The chief impurities are the sulfur-containing aromatic compound benzothiophene (under 2%), indane (0.2%), indene (under 2%), and methylnaphthalene (under 2%). Petroleum-derived naphthalene is usually purer than that derived from coal tar. Where required, crude naphthalene can be further purified by recrystallization from any of a variety of solvents, resulting in 99% naphthalene by weight, referred to as 80 °C (176 °F) (melting point).


=== Other sources and occurrences ===
Naphthalene and its alkyl homologs are the major constituents of creosote.
Trace amounts of naphthalene are produced by magnolias and some species of deer, as well as the Formosan subterranean termite, possibly produced by the termite as a repellant against "ants, poisonous fungi and nematode worms". Some strains of the endophytic fungus Muscodor albus produce naphthalene among a range of volatile organic compounds, while Muscodor vitigenus produces naphthalene almost exclusively.


== Uses ==
Naphthalene is used mainly as a precursor to derivative chemicals. The single largest use of naphthalene is the industrial production of phthalic anhydride, although more phthalic anhydride is made from o-xylene.


=== Fumigant ===
Naphthalene has been used as a fumigant. It was once the primary ingredient in mothballs, although its use has largely been replaced in favor of alternatives such as 1,4-dichlorobenzene. In a sealed container containing naphthalene pellets, naphthalene vapors build up to levels toxic to both the adult and larval forms of many moths that attack textiles. Other fumigant uses of naphthalene include use in soil as a fumigant pesticide, in attic spaces to repel insects and animals such as possums, and in museum storage-drawers and cupboards to protect the contents from attack by insect pests.


=== Solvent ===
Molten naphthalene provides an excellent solubilizing medium for poorly soluble aromatic compounds. In many cases it is more efficient than other high-boiling solvents, such as dichlorobenzene, benzonitrile, nitrobenzene and durene. The reaction of C60 with anthracene is conveniently conducted in refluxing naphthalene to give the 1:1 Diels–Alder adduct. The aromatization of hydroporphyrins has been achieved using a solution of DDQ in naphthalene.


==== Sulfonic acids and sulfonates ====
Many naphthalenesulfonic acids and sulfonates are useful. Naphthalenesulfonic acids are used in the synthesis of 1-naphthol and 2-naphthol, precursors for various dyestuffs, pigments, rubber processing chemicals and other chemicals and pharmaceuticals. They are also used as dispersants in synthetic and natural rubbers, in agricultural pesticides, in dyes, and in lead–acid battery plates. Naphthalenedisulfonic acids such as Armstrong acid are used as precursors and to form pharmaceutical salts such as CFT.
The aminonaphthalenesulfonic acids are precursors for synthesis of many synthetic dyes.
Alkyl naphthalene sulfonates (ANS) are used in many industrial applications as nondetergent surfactants (wetting agents) that effectively disperse colloidal systems in aqueous media. The major commercial applications are in the agricultural chemical industry, which uses ANS for wettable powder and wettable granular (dry-flowable) formulations, and in the textile and fabric industry, which uses the wetting and defoaming properties of ANS for bleaching and dyeing operations.
Some naphthalenesulfonate polymers are superplasticizers used for the production of high strength concrete as well as water reducers in the production of gypsum wallboard.
They are produced by treating naphthalenesulfonic acid with formaldehyde, followed by neutralization with sodium hydroxide or calcium hydroxide.


==== Other derivative uses ====

Many azo dyes are produced from naphthalene. Useful agrichemicals include naphthoxyacetic acids.
Hydrogenation of naphthalene gives tetrahydronaphthalene (tetralin) and decahydronaphthalene (decalin), which are used as low-volatility solvents. Tetralin is used as a hydrogen-donor solvent.
Alkylation of naphthalene with propylene gives a mixture of diisopropylnaphthalenes, which are useful as nonvolatile liquids for inks.
Substituted naphthalenes serve as pharmaceuticals such as propranolol (a beta blocker) and nabumetone (a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug).


=== Other uses ===
Several uses stem from naphthalene's high volatility: it is used to create artificial pores in the manufacture of high-porosity grinding wheels; it is used in engineering studies of heat transfer using mass sublimation; and it has been explored as a sublimable propellant for cold gas satellite thrusters.
It is used in daytime pyrotechnics to produce very clear black smoke trails, but because it sublimes the shelf-life of items containing it is poor.


== Health effects ==

Exposure to large amounts of naphthalene may damage or destroy red blood cells, most commonly in people with the inherited condition known as glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency, which approximately 400 million people have. Humans, especially children, have developed the condition known as hemolytic anemia, after ingesting mothballs or deodorant blocks containing naphthalene. Symptoms include fatigue, lack of appetite, restlessness, and pale skin. Exposure to large amounts of naphthalene may cause confusion, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, blood in the urine, and jaundice (yellow coloration of the skin from dysfunction of the liver).
The US National Toxicology Program (NTP) held an experiment where male and female rats and mice were exposed to naphthalene vapors on weekdays for two years. Both male and female rats exhibited evidence of carcinogenesis with increased incidences of adenoma and neuroblastoma of the nose. Female mice exhibited some evidence of carcinogenesis based on increased incidences of alveolar and bronchiolar adenomas of the lung, while male mice exhibited no evidence of carcinogenesis.
The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) classifies naphthalene as possibly carcinogenic to humans and animals (Group 2B). The IARC also points out that acute exposure causes cataracts in humans, rats, rabbits, and mice; and that hemolytic anemia (described above) can occur in children and infants after oral or inhalation exposure or after maternal exposure during pregnancy. A probable mechanism for the carcinogenic effects of mothballs and some types of air fresheners containing naphthalene has been identified.


=== Regulation ===
Mothballs and other products containing naphthalene have been banned within the EU since 2008.
In China, the use of naphthalene in mothballs is forbidden. Danger to human health and the common use of natural camphor are cited as reasons for the ban.


== See also ==
Camphor
Dialin, Tetralin, Decalin
List of interstellar and circumstellar molecules
Mothballs
1-Naphthol, 2-Naphthol
Wagner-Jauregg reaction (classic naphthalene synthesis)


== References ==


== External links ==

Naphthalene—National Pesticide Information Center
Naphthalene—EPA Air Toxics Web Site
Naphthalene (PIM 363)—mostly on toxicity of naphthalene
Naphthalene in the Pesticide Properties DataBase (PPDB)
"Naphthalene" . Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 19 (11th ed.). 1911. pp. 167–168.

Martina Hingis and Anna Kournikova defeated Elena Dementieva and Lina Krasnoroutskaya in the final, 7–6(7–1), 6–3 to win the women's singles doubles title at the 2001 Kremlin Cup.
Julie Halard-Decugis and Ai Sugiyama were the defending champions, but chose not to participate.


== Seeds ==


== Draw ==
Key


=== Draw ===


== References ==


== External links ==
2001 ITF tournament edition details

Heatonville is a small unincorporated community in Lawrence County, Missouri, United States. It lies along former U.S. Route 66 (Route 96), approximately six miles (10 km) north-east of Mount Vernon.
A post office called Heaton was established in 1872, the name was changed to Heatonville in 1888, and the post office closed in 1891. The community was named after Daniel Heaton, the original owner of the town site.


== References ==

Vibe, alternatively vibes, is short for vibration.
Vibe may also refer to:


== People ==
DJ Vibe (born 1968), Portuguese DJ
Lasse Vibe (born 1987), Danish footballer


== Media ==
Vibe (magazine), a magazine about music artists, actors and other entertainers
Vibe (character), a comic book character in the DC Comics universe


== Music ==
Vibe (Bangladeshi band), Bangladeshi heavy metal band
Vibe (South Korean band), an R&B group
Naver Vibe, a South Korean music streaming service


=== Albums ===
Vibe (album), a 1997 album by Caught in the Act
The Vibe (Lexington Bridge album), 2007
The Vibe (Roy Hargrove album), 1992
Vibe, a 2016 album by Fler
Vibe, a 2021 album by Franglish


=== Songs ===
"Vibe" (Taeyang song), 2023
"Vibe" (Tove Styrke song), 2018
"Vibe" (Zhané song), 1994
"Vibe", by Editors from EBM, 2022
"Vibe", by JoJo from Mad Love, 2016
"Vibe", by the Rasmus from Hell of a Tester, 1998
"Vibe (If I Back It Up)", by Cookiee Kawaii, 2019
"The Vibe", by EXID from We, 2019


== Television ==
Vibe (talk show), a 1997 American late night talk show
Vibe (TV channel), a New Zealand television channel on SKY Network Television


== Radio ==
VIBE FM (Romania), a radio station in Romania
KCHZ (95-7 The Vibe), a radio station in Ottawa, Kansas
The Vibe 98.8, a fictional radio station from Grand Theft Auto IV
CIBK-FM, a radio station in Calgary (2002-2010), now "98.5 Virgin Radio"
ZFKV-FM, a radio station in the Cayman Islands (2001-2018), now Island FM
Kiss (UK radio station) (Vibe 101), a radio station in the United Kingdom, now known as Kiss
Kiss 105-108 (Vibe FM 105-108)), a defunct radio station in East of England
CHRY-FM (VIBE 105.5), a radio station in Toronto, Ontario


== Software ==
ViBe, a software method for background extraction in moving images
Vibe coding, a programming paradigm based on AI assistance
Vibe or Mistral Vibe, a generative AI chatbot of the French company Mistral AI
Novell Vibe, a web based document management and collaboration system


== Other ==
Atlanta Vibe, American professional volleyball team
Ozone Vibe, a French paraglider design
Pontiac Vibe, a compact automobile sold by General Motors from 2002 to 2010
ViBE, a brand name for a Philips GoGear portable media player


== See also ==
Vibes (disambiguation)

The 314th Military Intelligence Battalion is a Military Intelligence Battalion of the United States Army Reserve located in San Diego County and Los Angeles County, California. The organization trains to conduct theater-level interrogation operations, detainee screening, document and media exploitation (DOMEX), target exploitation (TAREX), strategic debriefing, counterintelligence, and analysis in support of the deployed Commander's Theater Interrogation Facility (TIF) or as the Army component of the Joint Interrogation and Debriefing Center (JIDC).


== Lineage and honors ==
The history of the 314th Military Intelligence Battalion begins in World War II during the Allies' final push for victory in the Pacific. On 27 February 1945, the 314th Headquarters Intelligence Detachment was activated near Dulag, Leyte, Philippine Islands and assigned to the 96th Infantry Division with subordinate teams such as the 389th Translator Team, 344th Interrogation Team, and 372nd Interpreter Team. The 314th Headquarters Intelligence Detachment was made up of Lieutenant Allen E. Beach and ten enlisted men. The unit was to interface with the division's G-2 and coordinate the activities of five intelligence teams responsible for a variety of intelligence functions ranging from photo interpretation to interrogations. Oral histories from 314th veterans indicate that they did not use, and possibly were not even aware of, the separate subordinate team designations.
The ten enlisted men serving with the 314th constituted one of military intelligence's most important "secret" weapons of the war. The use of second generation Japanese-Americans or Nisei.(As youngsters, many had received formal schooling in the Japanese language.) Following a refresher course at the Army's Language School at Camp Savage, Minnesota, they left for the Pacific where they served as interrogators, interpreters, and translators. The ten Nisei assigned to the 314th included Fred Fukushima, Akira Ohoi, Herbert Yamamura, Takejiro Higa, Fred Nonaka, Osamu Yamamoto, Thomas Masui, Haruo Kawana, Warren Higa, and Rudy Kawahara.

By early 1945, the campaign for Leyte was in its final stages. In February, the 96th Infantry Division was relieved of all combat duty in the Philippines and began training for an assault on the Japanese-held island of Okinawa for Operation Iceberg. Tech Sergeant Takejiro Higa of the 314th related how he reacted to learning about the invasion of Okinawa. " ... entering the tent my heart nearly stopped beating as I saw hung before me a large blown-up map of the southern half of Okinawa. Chills ran up my spine as I realized the next target would be that part of Okinawa where I had lived for 14 years and left merely 6 years before."
On 25 March the first elements departed for the Ryukyu Islands, a chain running southwest from Japan toward Taiwan. The 314th Detachment left a day later aboard the USS Mendocino. The 96th Infantry Division was among the units chosen to lead the assault. However, when they landed on Okinawa on 1 April there was surprisingly no opposition and by nightfall over 60,000 troops were ashore. It would be the calm before the storm. What lay ahead was America's bloodiest campaign against Imperial Japan. The island was dotted with hills, ravines, and caves-the last of natural rock and coral, providing any defender with ready-made fortifications and storehouses.
Because the Allies had taken so few prisoners during the war in the Pacific, translation of documents became a critical source of intelligence, as would prove to be the case in the Okinawa campaign. Besides intelligence work, the Nisei were able to persuade some enemy soldiers into surrendering and to talk local civilians out of hiding. All of which was done at great personal risk, but the result saved many lives including those of American soldiers. The campaign for the Ryukyus represented the last major battle of World War II for the American soldier. In July the 314th returned to Mindoro in the Philippine Islands and remained there until the end of the war. 
Following World War II, the 314th played an important role during the occupation period. There was a need for linguists to assist in rounding up war criminals and protecting the occupying forces-all important missions for Army intelligence. On 31 October 1945, the commander of the 314th departed for Korea. (Once in country, the detachment began picking up replacement personnel.) Here it served with the XXIV Corps, which was given the responsibility for accepting the transfer of Japanese control. On 25 March 1947, the 314th was inactivated in Korea.
From 21 May 1948 to 30 June 1950, the 314th served as a Reserve unit in Boston, Massachusetts. On 10 August 1950, the 314th was redesignated as Headquarters, 314th Military Intelligence Battalion. One result of the Korean War and increased tensions in Europe during the early 1950s was the introduction of group and battalion-size units to military intelligence. On 30 August it was again activated; this time in Cleveland, Ohio. At the end of the Korean War, the need for the 314th went away, and the battalion was inactivated on 1 April 1953. Its final tour in the Reserves began on 16 September 1988 when it was redesignated as Headquarters, Headquarters and Service Company, 314th Military Intelligence Battalion, and activated at Detroit, Michigan. On 15 September 1997, the 314th was inactivated. 
For over 50 years, the members of the 314th MI Battalion have served proudly in support of the Nation, its Army, and Military Intelligence. On 16 June 2000, the 314th MI Battalion began a new chapter and assumed a new mission upon its activation at San Antonio, Texas, and assignment to the 116th Military Intelligence Brigade, and then to the Army Reserve in San Diego 16 October 2012.


=== Lineage ===
Constituted 14 December 1944 in the Army of the United States as the 314th Headquarters Intelligence Detachment
Activated 27 February 1945 in the Philippines
Inactivated 25 March 1947 in Korea
Allotted 20 April 1948 to the Organized Reserve Corps
Activated 21 May 1948 at Boston, Massachusetts
Inactivated 30 June 1950 at Boston, Massachusetts
Redesignated 10 August 1950 as Headquarters, 314th Military Intelligence Battalion
Activated 30 August 1950 at Cleveland, Ohio
(Organized Reserve Corps redesignated 9 July 1952 as the Army Reserve)
Inactivated 1 April 1953 at Cleveland, Ohio
Redesignated 16 September 1988 as Headquarters, Headquarters and Service Company, 314th Military Intelligence Battalion, and activated at Detroit, Michigan (organic elements concurrently constituted and activated)
Battalion inactivated 15 September 1997 at Detroit, Michigan
Withdrawn 4 February 1999 from the Army Reserve and allotted to the Regular Army
Activated 16 June 2000 at San Antonio, Texas
Inactivated 30 September 2009 at Fort Sam Houston, Texas
Withdrawn 4 January 2011 from the Regular Army and allotted to the Army Reserve
Activated 16 October 2012 at San Diego, California


=== Campaign participation credit ===
World War II in the Asiatic-Pacific Theater at Ryukyus


=== Decorations ===


== Coat of arms and distinctive unit insignia ==


=== Coat of arms ===
Shield: Argent, within a cross quarter pierced Azure (Oriental Blue) the device from the flag of Okinawa Proper; on a chief wavy Sable a dagger and a key wards up saltirewise of the first.
Crest: From a wreath Argent and Azure (Oriental Blue) a sun of sixteen rays in glory Or surmounted by a Japanese "Hutatue-domoe" (sphere of two commas) Gules and overall in base two swords blades up saltirewise of the third. Motto: SAPIENTIA ET VERITAS (Wisdom and Truth).


=== Distinctive Unit Insignia Description ===
A silver color metal and enamel device 1+1⁄8 inches (2.9 cm) in height overall consisting of a shield blazoned: Argent, within a cross quarter pierced Azure (Oriental Blue) the device from the flag of Okinawa Proper; on a chief wavy Sable a dagger and a key wards up saltirewise of the first. Attached below the shield a black scroll inscribed "SAPIENTIA ET VERITAS" in silver letters.


=== Origin/meaning ===
Oriental blue and silver/silver gray are the colors traditionally associated with the Military Intelligence Corps. The red and white Okinawa symbol represents the unit's Pacific service. The blue and white squares simulate a chess board band allude to strategy in gathering intelligence information. Black implies covert operations while the silver key and sword refer to securing information for military activities. Black and white also signify day and night operations. Crest: The sun represents the Pacific theater of war against Japan during World War II, its many rays symbolizing the islands of the Ryukyu group where the 314th saw action. The scarlet "sphere of two commas" represents Japan and suggests the rising sun symbol of Imperial Japan shattered by United States forces. The swords denote combat and readiness. Gold signifies excellence, scarlet indicates courage and sacrifice.
The Coat of Arms was originally approved on 9 May 1990. It was amended to include a crest on 22 June 2000. The distinctive unit insignia was approved on 8 May 1990.


== See also ==
United States Army Military Intelligence Readiness Command


== References ==

The IHF Council is an institution of the International Handball Federation (the governing body of handball and beach handball). It is the main decision-making body of the organization in the intervals of IHF Congress. Its members are elected by the IHF Congress. The council is a non-executive, supervisory and strategic body that sets the vision for IHF and global handball.


== Composition ==
The council is made up of the following individuals:

IHF President
IHF 1st Vice-President
AHF: one vice-president and one member
CAHB: one vice-president and one member
EHF: one vice-president and one member
NACHC: one member
OCHF: one member
SCAHC: one member
IHF Treasurer
Two IHF Executive Members
Chairperson of COC
Chairperson of PRC
Chairperson of CCM
Chairperson of CD
Chairperson of MC
Chairperson of AC


== IHF Council 2025 — 2029 ==


== General conditions ==
If a continental confederation has at least 15 national federations as full members, it may nominate a council member for the continent that shall be confirmed by the IHF Congress. Each continental confederation may nominate one vice-president if it has at least 23 national federations as full members. The council shall convene at least twice a year. The term of office of council members shall be four years; re-election is possible. In case of urgent business, the president may seek to make resolutions and decisions by mail between council meetings. Council is the body that awards the IHF World Men's Handball Championship and IHF World Women's Handball Championship.


== IHF Commission of Organising and Competitions ==
IHF Commission of Organising and Competitions (COC) is composed of one chairperson and seven members elected by the IHF Council.


== IHF Playing Rules and Referees Commission ==
IHF Playing Rules and Referees Commission (PRC) is composed of one chairperson and seven members elected by the IHF Council.


== IHF Commission of Coaching and Methods ==
IHF Commission of Coaching and Methods (CCM) is composed of one chairperson and seven members elected by the IHF Council.


== IHF Medical Commission ==
IHF Medical Commission (MC) is composed of one chairperson and seven members elected by the IHF Council.


== IHF Commission for Development ==
IHF Commission for Development (CD) is composed of one chairperson and seven members elected by the IHF Council.


== IHF Athletes' Commission ==
IHF Athletes' Commission is composed of one chairperson and four members elected by the players participating in the Summer Olympic Games every four years.


== IHF Arbitration Commission ==
IHF Arbitration Commission is composed of one chairperson and ten members elected by the IHF Congress.


== IHF Arbitration Tribunal ==
IHF Arbitration Tribunal is composed of one chairperson and ten members elected by the IHF Congress.


== IHF Ethics Commission ==
IHF Ethics Commission is composed of one chairperson and five members elected by the IHF Congress.


== IHF Beach Handball Working Group ==
IHF Beach Handball Working Group (BHWG) is composed of one chairman and four members elected by the IHF Council.


== IHF Handball at School Working Group ==
IHF Handball at School Working Group is composed of one chairwoman and two members elected by the IHF Council.


== IHF Wheelchair Handball Working Group ==
IHF Wheelchair Handball Working Group is composed of one chairman and six members elected by the IHF Council.


== IHF Women’s Handball Working Group ==
IHF Women's Handball Working Group is composed of one chairwoman and four members elected by the IHF Council.


== List of IHF secretaries general ==
The following is the list of IHF secretaries general.


== List of IHF treasurers ==

Sandi Šola was asked by IHF Council to resign during the IHF Council meeting held in Herning (Denmark) on 19 December 2015. Then IHF 1st Vice-President Miguel Roca Mas (Spain) held the charge until the next IHF Congress in 2017.


== List of IHF managing directors ==


== References ==


== External links ==
IHF Council

The 2010 Open Diputación Ciudad de Pozoblanco was a professional tennis tournament played on hard court. This was the eleventh edition of the tournament which is part of the Tretorn SERIE+ of the 2010 ATP Challenger Tour. It took place in Pozoblanco, Spain between 5 July and 11 July 2010.


== ATP entrants ==


=== Seeds ===

Rankings are as of June 21, 2010.


=== Other entrants ===
The following players received wildcards into the singles main draw:

 Agustín Boje-Ordóñez
 Pablo Carreño Busta
 Gerard Granollers Pujol
 Juan José Leal-Gómez
The following players received entry from the qualifying draw:

 George Bastl
 David Cañudas-Fernández
 Marc Fornell Mestres (as a Lucky Loser)
 Pablo Martín-Adalia
 Nikolaus Moser


== Champions ==


=== Singles ===

 Rubén Ramírez Hidalgo def.  Roberto Bautista Agut, 7–6(6), 6–4


=== Doubles ===

 Marcel Granollers /  Gerard Granollers Pujol def.  Brian Battistone /  Filip Prpic 6–4, 4–6 [10–4]


== References ==
Official website
ITF Search Archived 2010-02-12 at the Wayback Machine

Wellington Nascimento Carvalho (born 21 November 1992), known as Wellington, is a Brazilian professional footballer who plays as a winger for Liga Portugal 2 club Chaves.


== Club career ==
He made his professional debut in the Segunda Liga for Penafiel on 6 August 2016 in a game against Sporting Covilhã.
On 19 June 2022, Wellington joined Saudi Arabian club Al-Arabi.
On 2 July 2024, Wellington returned to Chaves.


== Career statistics ==
As of 14 February 2018


== References ==

Merom Golan (Hebrew: מרום גולן) is an Israeli settlement organized as a kibbutz in the Golan Heights. Located at the bottom of the volcanic crater of Mount Bental, it falls under the jurisdiction of Golan Regional Council. In 2024, it had a population of 818.
The international community considers Israeli settlements in the Golan Heights illegal under international law, but the Israeli government disputes this. The Golan Heights region is internationally recognized as Syrian territory, occupied by Israel since 1967. Israel views it as part of its sovereign territory ever since the passage of the Golan Heights Law, which applied Israeli civilian law to it.


== History ==
Merom Golan was established on 14 July 1967 with funds from the Upper Galilee Regional Council on the site of the abandoned Syrian military camp of Aleika, and was the first Israeli settlement to be established in the Golan Heights after the Six-Day War, about a month after the end of the war. Initially, the kibbutz was called Golan, and in November 1968 its name was changed to Merom Golan.
Between the years 1969 and 1973, Merom Golan was shelled many times by the Syrian army. In March 1972, the settlement moved to its current location, and this location also suffered many shellings. During the Yom Kippur War, the women and children were evacuated to Beit HaShita and remained there until the end of the fighting. However, the settlement was also shelled by the Syrians after that.


== Geography ==


=== Climate ===
Merom Golan had the lowest temperature ever recorded by an Israeli weather station: -14.2° C. The previous record was -13.7C in the Beit Netofa Valley.


== Transportation ==
The Golan Regional Council operates eight buses per day from Merom Golan to the Israeli city of Kiryat Shmona. The bus line begins at Katzrin, and also stops at Kidmat Tzvi, Ortal, Ein Zivan, and Kela Alon. The bus ride to Kiryat Shmona takes approximately 31 minutes. Merom Golan is located close to Highway 959, which runs east-west through the northern Golan Heights.


== Notable people ==
Yehuda Harel (born 1934), former politician
Joop de Jong (born 1951), Israeli-Dutch sculptor


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website (in Hebrew)

James Tracy may refer to:

James Tracy (historian) (born 1938), American historian
James Tracy (conspiracy theorist) (born 1965), American academic, communication scholar, and conspiracy theorist
James Tracy (activist) (born 1970), American writer and political activist
James Tracy (rugby union) (born 1991), Irish rugby union player


== See also ==
Jim Tracy (disambiguation)
James Tracy Hale (1810–1865), member of the U.S. House of Representatives from Pennsylvania

Engineering the Dead is the second album by the death metal band Aborted. It was released on 6 August 2001 and re-released in 2008.


== Track listing ==

2008 re-release bonus tracks


== Personnel ==
Sven "Svencho" de Caluwé – vocals
Thijs De Cloedt – guitars
Niek Verstraete – guitars
Koen Verstraete – bass
Frank Rousseau – drums


== References ==

The Hot Springs Music Festival was a not-for-profit educational music festival held in Hot Springs National Park, Hot Springs, Arkansas. During the first two weeks of June, "pre-professional" musicians joined professional mentor musicians in performance of concert music. Yearly programs included 4 orchestral concerts and numerous chamber music concerts. Venues included the Oaklawn Performing Arts School and various churches in the city.  All rehearsals were open to the public. Approximately 10,000 people attended the festival to watch 20 concerts and 250 rehearsals. Additionally, around 6.4 million people tuned in to listen via radio. 
Since its inaugural season in 1996, the Hot Springs Music Festival mentored over 1600 apprentices.  The Festival offered apprenticeships in each of the orchestral instruments as well as collaborative piano, voice, conducting, production, recording engineering, and arts administration.  Festival apprentices came from all over the world and were evaluated competitively against other applicants.  Each accepted apprentice received a full tuition scholarship for the two-week festival.
The Hot Springs Music Festival Symphony Orchestra recorded six discs on the Naxos Records label.  They also appeared on four additional compilation discs, also on the Naxos label.
The last season took place on June 4–18, 2022. In 2023, the festival was canceled primarily due to funding difficulties.
The Hot Springs Music Festival was discontinued in 2024, but it changed hands and became the Ozark Music Festival in 2025, held in Fayetteville, AR.


== References ==


== External links ==
Hot Springs Music Festival

Sidney Burgoyne Kitchener Caulfield (1877–1964) was head of architecture at the Central School of Arts and Crafts. He succeeded Halsey Ricardo. He designed a number of buildings at  Hampstead Garden Suburb.


== References ==

Demon Beasts Horrors (魔獣ホラー, Majū Horā) are fictional monsters and the antagonists in the Japanese tokusatsu series Garo.


== Fictional history ==
The Horrors are demons that originate from a Demon World (魔界, Makai). The usual variety of Horrors, called "Inga Horrors" (陰我ホラー, Inga Horā) are grotesque black-winged skeletal demons that enter the human world, drawn by their primary "food" of human malice and darkness. They use Inga gates, objects tainted by darkness from either playing a role in a naturally-accumulated atrocity like mass murder or an unresolved traumatic experience. There are also Inga gates that are created by someone infusing the object with dark energies. Regardless, all Inga gates are usually activated when a person with inner darkness approaches them, with the emerging Horror turning that person or any other living thing nearby into a host body.
From there, either taking over the host or forming a symbiosis to act out the host's dark desires, the Horror "evolves" into a unique form based on the gate they emerged from, each with their own personal tastes and feeding habits. Normally a human is dead the moment that an Inga Horror possesses them and what remains of the host follows the Horror in death as well. The Makai Knight Jinga seemingly possessed the unique ability to purge a Horror out of its human host with the human restored to their original self, but it is later revealed that he only suppressed the Horrors, and it only worked due to the original Jinga's machinations. Though rare, there are also some unusual Horrors that prefer to possess objects rather than living things, not having a preference for specific prey, as they consume whoever comes into close contact one way or another instead. But the rarest Horrors are the ones that assume the form of large beasts without needing a host body, acting only on a primal and indiscriminate urge to feed.
Three commonalities all Inga Horrors share is a preference of hunting at night, their blood marking someone for death as Horrors will have an increased desirability for the afflicted, and speaking in the Makai language which can be understood by someone well-versed in the language or a potential host, usually adopting a human language upon possession. While slain on a regular basis, Horrors can never truly die so long as darkness exists in the hearts of men. Upon a physical death, the Horror's essence is sealed within a Makaiken until its essence is formed into a dagger that is entrusted to a Watchdog to be sent back to the Demon World. Though there is a one night relief in the Inga Lapsing Night (陰我消滅の晩, Inga Shōmetsu no Ban) that occurs once every 20 years to bar any passage of Horrors into the human world, a slain Inga Horror can still return later. Trace essences of slain Horrors latch onto a Makai Knight and accumulate, requiring him to undergo a ritualistic purification periodically. In the case of those who bear the title of Garo, the essence of Horrors that the Garo user slain eventually forms into a Zaji, vowing slay whoever is holding the title of Garo at the moment. While Inga Horrors taken on human forms have no weakness against sunlight and can operate normally during daytime, they have an aversion nonetheless of showing their true forms under broad daylight. As such, Makai Knights almost never need to draw their blades for combat before sundown.
While stronger Horrors, especially those evolved to have unique forms and powers, tend to live and hunt alone when they make it into the human world, the weaker ones with no desire to hunt on their own and dependent on others to feed tend to band together and form small community pockets, as revealed in "Garo: Makai Retsuden". Each of these communities have their own hideouts called "forts", despite having no fortifications of any kind. The forts have cages in which humans are kept as livestock to be consumed later. These Horrors are weak enough that a lone Makai Knight prove more than enough to wipe a dozen or two of them out within minutes.
Despite their nature as enemies of humanity, some recurrent ones gaining so much notoriety that they are named and documented. Horrors are not always targeted for elimination. At times, they are re-purposed by Makai Priests to serve various functions, such as for sealing of other more powerful Horrors, experimentation, or those like Sedinbale sealed to provide their vast knowledge on various Makai-related matters. Even Madōgu (魔導具, Madōgu) like Zaruba are created with Horrors that hold no enmity against humanity and have pledged their loyalty to the Makai order, the created items entrusted to certain Makai Knights of prestige.
In the events of Yami o Terasu Mono and Zero: Black Blood, given humans as payment for their loyalty as familiars, the Inga Horrors are shown to be significantly weaker as they can be killed by Makai Knights at a quicker pace. These Inga Horrors lack unique Horror forms, mostly seen only in their human form even during battle while some can assume their true usual Horror form.
In the events of Versus Road, a new form of Inga Horror is seen as an enemy that hunts down players. These Horrors appear to be modified with cybernetic enhancements, which seem to serve as restraints or control devices. The game world Horrors are shown to be incredibly fast, able to clear large distances in an instant. Despite the slight increase in physical ability granted to them by the game world, the players, being otherwise normal humans, are quickly overwhelmed by even one of these Horrors and generally opt to either flee or hide when encountering one.


== Messiah the Ultimate Horror ==
Messiah (メシア, Meshia) is the originator of all Horrors from the True Demon World (真魔界, Shin Makai) and has existed well before the beginning of the conflict between the Makai community and Horrors. Messiah is the most unusual Horror because she is the only Horror that appears almost perfectly human in form, resembling a giant white-skinned half-naked woman with long-clawed fingers and unique jewelry and tattoos around her head and shoulders. Her back contains a Taoist round disc. While the full range of her powers are never revealed, Messiah's abilities include magical shielding, animating her body tattoos into cannons, summoning Horrors by merely touching the ground she walks upon, and flight.
Messiah had long desired to enter the human realm but she could not cross through without a large source of energy. After sensing Barago's desperation for power, Messiah reveals herself in a Madō Book that contains forbidden techniques. Though only a shade of her true self, Messiah offers to give Barago the knowledge and power of the forbidden Makai methods in return to bring about the legendary Kiba. Barago wholeheartedly agrees to give up his soul for power and Messiah proceeds to start him on his path of destroying lives to set up the conditions to summon her in her full glory through Kaoru, who is a suitable vessel due to the conditions of her age and birth. But once he fulfills his part in her summoning by removing any trace of humanity in him, upon being awakened Messiah absorbs Barago using Kaoru's body as a medium to use his power to complete the process. Her plans to reach the human world are foiled by Kouga, who enters her realm and defeats her with spiritual help from Kaoru. She is ultimately defeated when, overconfident with her powers, she arrogantly fails to stop Kouga from running his sword into her head after he discards his armor. Shocked at how a normal human has defeated her, Messiah is forced back into her dormant state while releasing Kiba.
During the events of Makai no Hana, it is revealed that Messiah can also be summoned to the human world through the blooming of the Demon Beast Eyrith. It becomes the goal of Kouga's son Raiga to prevent the return of one of his father's enemies by hunting down Eyrith with the help of Mayuri.
During the events of Kami no Kiba, Rinza reveals she facilitated Jinga's resurrection so she could use him and the God's Fang to create a gate on the Moon to summon Messiah. After the God's Fang was destroyed, Messiah awakens from her dormant state in the Makai and is confronted by Jinga in his Horror form. Kami no Kiba: Jinga would reveal that Messiah destroyed Jinga, causing his reincarnation into a human.
Messiah is portrayed by Sho Nishino (西野 翔, Nishino Shō). In Kiba Gaiden, she is voiced by Asami (亜紗美) in a flashback and Mika Hijii (肘井 美佳, Hijii Mika) while possessing her body.


== Garo ==
These are the Horrors that appear during Garo.

Anglay (アングレイ, Angurei): The 12th Horror to appear, Anglay is a trapper able to bring artwork to life. The Horror poses as a female nude portrait within a painting until the gallery owner, Tasuke Taniyama (谷山 太輔, Taniyama Tasuke), finds it and is possessed by it. The monster has a taste for young women, liquifying them into paint for consumption, and targets Kaoru. But Kouga's appearance forces the monster to lock down the art exhibit. In the fight with Kouga, Anglay bursts out from its host and manifests itself into a painting, gaining an acidic paint-muck exterior with a frame collar until it regresses to its original form. Garo kills it and Kaoru stained by the Horror's blood as a result. Taniyama is portrayed by Toru Minegishi (峰岸 徹, Tōru Minegishi).
Ishutarb (イシュターブ, Ishutābu): The 13th Horror. Emerging from a chain, it possesses the body of Azusa Kujō (九条 あずさ, Kujō Azusa), a con-woman who takes advantage of money-minded people using an IT company as a front. Using its host's plan, Ishutarb uses money to lure it victims to meet it at nighttime. From there, it would rip them to shreds with chains shooting from Kujō's body and ingest the pieces caught by its chains' links. it is about to kill Kaoru when dumb luck and Kouga stops her. During the fight, Ishutarb alters it host's form into an iron maiden-like armored form. Garo kills it in a parking lot. Kujō is portrayed by Kahori Fujii (藤井 かほり, Fujii Kahori).
Morax (モラックス, Morakkusu): A unique Horror that has no need for a human host, once said to have wiped out an entire village in one night. Possessing a time-piece, altering it into a variety of forms, Morax lures those driven by time to pick him up. Once he has a hold on his victim, by after dusk, it dehydrates the victim until only dust remains. Forced to use humans as host, Morax takes advantage of Kouga's sympathy for humans to escape. Once he captures Kaoru, Morax assumes the form of a clock tower. Though he is armed with arsenal of bladed arms, Morax is killed finally by Garo, ripped out of his vessel as it crumbles to the ground.
Pazuzu (パズズ): A Horror that first appeared around the time Taiga was alive. It takes over the body of Ryōichi Tategami (立神 亮一, Tategami Ryōichi), making him a miracle worker of a surgeon so Pazuzu can feed on the euphoria-enriched blood of Tategami's patients. it slices them apart with the scalpel-bladed tendrils from the back of its head, while leaving the remains for its Horror minions. To ensure it could eat without interference, it erects a barrier to put any Makai Knight at a disadvantage. Kouga has trouble until he uses Kaoru to remove the seals that power the barrier. Upon Pazuzu's last moments, it pleas to devour Kaoru as its last meal. Utterly repulsed by this idea, Garo delivers the final blow, thus ending its reign of terror. Tategami is portrayed by Taishu Kase (加勢 大周, Kase Taishū).
Lunarken (ルナーケン, Runāken): A moth demon, possessing a woman who tries to commit suicide as the result of a man's insensitivity. it remains dormant in it zombified host until the full moon, when its bloodlust is at its zenith. During the fight, Garo realizes that the host is nothing more than a puppet composed/filled with moths. The actual Lunarken is the orb like weapon the puppet uses in its attacks. Lunarken is portrayed by Emi Kitagawa (北川 絵美, Kitagawa Emi).
Utoque (ウトック, Utokku): A corpse-like Horror that appears in a graveyard and possesses the body of a middle-aged prostitute named Kotomi Himigawa (氷見川 琴美, Himigawa Kotomi), making her young again and giving her a beautiful body. In return, Kotomi uses her beauty to lure men for the Horror to devour, using the eyes as a medium to suck the life out of the victim's body before he explodes. In battle, she could launch graveyard tombs to attack Kouga & Rei before Utoque takes over. Once Utoque is killed by Garo, Kotomi is fatally wounded, and begs for help. But Garo states that she is already dead because she has allowed the Horror to possess her in the first place, and her body soon disintegrates. Kotomi is portrayed by Nao Oikawa (及川 奈央, Oikawa Nao), while her original form is portrayed by Yoshie Uehara (上原 由恵, Uehara Yoshie).
Moloch (モロク, Moroku; 8, 21): A Horror that is attracted to the sadness of Miri Kamisugawa (神須川 美理, Kamisugawa Miri), a woman who killed six young men and collected their fingers after her pianist boyfriend committed suicide for being robbed of his dream. The Horror rapes/possesses her, using her intent to kill a remaining four men for their fingers while eating the rest. In its true-form, Moloch's body is two-toned (flaming on the left, icy on the right) with control over the elements of ice and fire, launching its hands to attack its enemies or kill its victims. Garo kills Moloch, with only the ring Miri had from her boyfriend remaining. Later the father of Miri, Yūki Kamisugawa (神須川 祐樹, Kamisugawa Yūki) obtains the ring, along with the Horror's essence dagger and special bullets forged from other purified blades. Intent on revenge for his daughter, Yūki uses the bullets to create a pack of Horrors to help him kill Kouga. But after they are all killed, and he is denied death, Yūki stabs himself and became Moloch's new host. However, Yūki feels the pain that his daughter suffered and has Garo end his misery before the demon fully consumes him. Miri is portrayed by Erika (エリカ), while Yūki is portrayed by Reo Morimoto (森本 レオ, Morimoto Reo).
Humpty (ハンプティ, Hanputi): A Horror that manifests from construction rubble to become a giant with strong armored body that seems invulnerable to the Garouken. Garo manages to kill it with the aid of Gōten and the Garou Zanbaken.
Asmodai (アスモディ, Asumodi): A clown-like Horror that possesses the body of an unnamed clown. Using the red nose and its puppets, Asmodai forces its victims to show "their nature", turning them against each other in a fight to the death, while laughing all the way. Once they are dead, it turns them into beach balls to ingest. It is giant-sized in his true form, using its arms for locomotion. Though its attempts to con Garo out of similar ideologies, it  is killed when Zero lops off its red nose. The clown is portrayed by Yuji Nakamura (中村 有志, Nakamura Yūji).
Dantarian (ダンタリアン): A neon-green stag beetle Horror that possesses a con artist gambler named Reijirō Kunugi (椚 礼次郎, Kunugi Reijirō), tricking people to play a fixed coin game and after they lost, sealed their souls inside a coin. After its takes Kaoru, it brings Kouga into its alternate realm with three games of chance to save Kaoru's soul. After the third, Dantarian assumes its true form out of rage to lower itself to physical combat and is defeated by Garo. However, the Horror sets up a final challenge for Kouga upon its death that Kouga manages to succeed. Kunugi is portrayed by Jay Kabira (川平 慈英, Kabira Jei).
Noul (ノウル, Nōru): A Horror that appeared during Taiga's time as Garo. Possessing the body of an old toymaker (おもちゃおじさん, omocha ojisan), he befriended Kouga whom he used as a shield to protect himself from Taiga, but Taiga mortally wounded the host so that the Horror ripped itself out, resembling a reddish version of its original form, in an attempt to kill Taiga. It was from that ordeal that Kouga understood the treacherous nature of a Horror. The old toymaker is portrayed by Zenjiro (ぜんじろう, Zenjirō).
Vuel (ヴエル, Vueru): A Horror that possessed a vehicle.
Gargoyle (ガーゴイル, Gāgoiru): A Horror that takes the body of Kōhei Kuramachi (倉町 公平, Kuramachi Kōhei), a sculptor who sold his soul to the "devil" to possess the "Hands of God" so he could create the ideal sculpture. Using his "gift", Kuramachi creates voodoo sculptures to torture his victims (young women) to death before sucking them down face first. He attempts to kill Kaoru when she hopes to learn more of her father through him, as she thinks Kuramachi had met her father. However, she finds out Kuramachi actually never met Yūji Mitsuki and was only inspired by his work. Gargoyle is killed by Zero, with a dying Kuramachi in awe of finally finding his "ideal piece" just before Zero kills him. Kuramachi is portrayed by Itsuji Itao (板尾 創路, Itao Itsuji).
Haru (ハル): A Horror that possesses a fish, its uses a shut-in programmer Mitsuru Tonuma (戸沼 充, Tonuma Mitsuru) whom its befriends to get its prey, killing women dumped into its tank and taking their attributes to become more human and move about on land without trouble. Tonuma is about to feed Kaoru to Haru as the final victim when Kouga arrives and exposes Haru, and kills the weakened monster, much to Tonuma's dismay. Though tempted to kill Tonuma, Kouga manages to control his anger and only knocks him unconscious. Haru's final words, how Kouga uses Kaoru to get to her, causes a rift between Kaoru and Kouga. Haru's human form is portrayed by miko.
12-piece Fusion Giant Horror (12体融合巨大ホラー, Jūnitai Yūgō Kyodai Horā): A Horror born from the twelve purified blades containing the invading Horrors Kouga and Rei defeated. Much larger than others, Garo and Zero are unable to defeat it. In the end, the monster is killed/absorbed by Barago.
Bonafaltz (ボナファルツ, Bonafarutsu): A skeleton gunman, created from Tochino (栩野), a security guard for a museum owned by Yuki Kamisugawa, using one of the special bullets made from Horror essences provided by the Watchdogs, in his attempt to avenge his daughter's death on Kouga. Tochino is portrayed by Yukitomo Tochino (栩野 幸知, Tochino Yukitomo).


== Byakuya no Maju ==
Garo Special: Byakuya no Maju features new types of Horrors and dark forces.


=== Eruzu ===
Eruzu (エルズ) is an arachnid Horror that possesses a young girl, using its host to target aggressive men. Its abilities, other than spider-related powers, include each surviving piece of its body being able to regenerate into a new Horror. This power means that Garo cannot simply cut it down and has to burn it, using his Blazing Armament technique.


=== Legules ===
Legules (レギュレイス, Regyureisu) is a Horror that has existed for over 1,000 years. The Makai community has no recorded history and his movements have no records. One thousand years ago during a solar eclipse, Legules successfully crossed through the barrier between worlds and revived his followers known as the Legules Family. Many Makai Knights and Makai Priests died that day in order to suppress the Horrors that Legules unleashed on humanity. To make sure that the catastrophe would never happen again, the Makai Priests created the Phosphorus Arrow to destroy the barrier and seal away Legules. One thousand years later, Legules manages to find another gateway to return to the human realm by assimilating a dead body to make it his own. Legules is not the usual variety of Horror, as he is seemingly demi-human and possessing elementals similar to Oni or Yokai.
He quickly begins building forces of his own by converting Horrors and a human into "his family". He then attacks Kantai during the night to find the Phosphorus Arrow so that he can complete his task of reviving his family. He tries to convert everyone, including the Madōgu of each Makai Knight, to join his forces. Tsubasa's Madōgu Goruba somehow gets possessed and Legules controls his bracelet body. When the night raid fails, he transfers himself into Goruba during the day and comes when people least suspect anything wrong. Legules takes the arrow and Rin Yamagatana with him, as he needs her blood to activate the arrow.
Legules's capabilities include, and are not limited to, bodily assimilation, dark magic, immunity to regular physical attacks, human energy absorption, body transference, martial arts, ultra human strength, ultra healing, body parts that can move without attachment, and biological transfiguration. Once the eclipse begins, Legules transformed himself into his true form, a giant metallic skeleton-like Horror. In this form, he is able to transform into a bladed metal wasp. Legules is defeated when Garo throws the Phosphorus Arrow into him and destroys the barrier at the same time. With Legules destroyed, the demon family vanishes.
Legules is portrayed by Mizuho Yoshida (吉田 瑞穂, Yoshida Mizuho) and is voiced by Hirose Masashi (広瀬 正志, Hirose Masashi).


=== Aomushi ===
Aomushi (アオムシ) is a murderer who is trying to dispose of a body that Legules takes over. Aomushi is given the chance to live by becoming a servant to him. Legules fires demonic energies from his eyes to the man's eyes, transforming Aomushi into a member of the Legules Family. Though not possessed, Aomushi counts as a Horror because he serves as an extension of Legules like those he converts. His capabilities are cloaking and being acrobatic. He eventually suffers a severe injury in combat from Tsubasa and Legules finishes him off as he has no use for him, reverting Aomushi to his original form.
Aomushi is portrayed by Namihei Koshige (こしげ なみへい, Koshige Namihei) and is voiced by Keiichiro Satomi (里見 圭一郎, Satomi Keiichirō).


=== Karakuri ===
Karakuri (カラクリ) are Horrors that are changed by Legules. Legules carries with him demonic masks and transforms live Horrors into his Legules family foot soldiers. Just like regular Horrors, they are able to enter humans and take control of them. However, they seem to be unable to blend in naturally as the regular Horrors can behave like a normal person. Their movements are very mechanical and move almost like karakuri puppets. They have high regenerative capabilities, bladed weapons as arms, and seem to have a ninja-like combat method. Their combat potential and strength is not above a regular Horror, but Horrors act independently as these Horrors serve a master. They do not speak, but merely make sounds and shift their eye sockets up and down as they react to their environment. Their body parts are known to function on their own even though if dismembered. They are all destroyed as the result of Legules's death.


== Red Requiem ==
Garo: Red Requiem features two of Apostle Horrors (使徒ホラー, Shito Horā), the generic name for seven powerful Horrors who are near equal to Messiah, and their followers.


=== Karma ===
Karma (カルマ, Karuma) is a Demon Mirror Horror (魔鏡ホラー, Makyō Horā) and one of the Apostle Horrors who lives in a mirror rather than human hosts, though she can turn a human into a Horror familiar if their darkness is great enough. She consumes human souls by showing illusions of their greatest desires, drawing them into her mirror realm and turning their bodies into piles of broken mirror shards to ingest with their souls trapped in the mirror world. Among her victims are untold numbers of Makai Knights who came to slay her, only to be defeated and devoured. Karma is able to jump from mirror to mirror if the one she is currently housed in is destroyed. The sorrows and hatreds of people consumed by her are used for her as childlike Warashi (ワラシ) and the shadowy Mercenaries of the Demon Mirror (魔鏡の傭兵, Makyō no yōhei). Eventually, forced to fight Garo, Karma assumes a giant mirror-shard themed harpy form while trying to convince Garo to swear loyalty to her in return for immortality. However, empowered by the fallen Makai Knights' souls within the realm, Garo destroys Karma.
Karma is portrayed by Saori Hara (原 紗央莉, Hara Saori) and is voiced by Mika Hijii (肘井 美佳, Hijii Mika).


=== Babel ===
Babel (ベビル, Bebiru) is a Demon Tower Horror (魔塔ホラー, Matō Horā) and one of the Apostle Horrors, a gigantic bull-like beast with a large headpiece resembling a guillotine with a blindfolded, naked human female form mounted on its front. The blade of the headpiece, tethered by the chains running through the Horror's body, can be launched. Unlike other Horrors, Babel is a cannibal and feeds on its own kind, posing as an infant in a carriage before being found out and destroyed by Garo.


=== Kurusu ===
Kurusu (クルス) is a Horror under Karma. Originally an elderly painter named Kenichi Kurusu (来栖 謙一, Kurusu Ken'ichi), Kurusu was driven mad by the death of his lover, Shion. He eventually snaps and kills a girl he was using as a model for a painting, trying to emulate Shion onto her. Karma, hearing his anguish, transforms him into a Horror, restoring his youth, and revives the said girl's corpse in Shion's image. In his human form, Kurusu fights with a large sword, holding it in a reverse grip. His Horror form is a large, skeletal creature composed half of bone and half of a fleshy substance. Finding Shion dead, Kurusu goes after the Kouga and Rekka while refusing to accept his love for the girl is a lie before being destroyed by Garo.
Kurusu is portrayed by Shinji Kasahara (笠原 紳司, Kasahara Shinji), his original form portrayed by Akira Nakao (中尾 彬, Nakao Akira).


=== Shion ===
Shion (シオン) is a Horror under Karma. In reality, she is a Horror created from the corpse of a girl Kurusu murdered prior to his transformation and altered to resemble the real Shion who died long ago. Her Horror form is not monstrous like most, only possessing a single white wing and an angelic outfit. She is killed by Rekka, her body lasting long enough for Kurusu to find before it dissolves into feathers.
Shion is portrayed by Hiromi Eguchi (江口 ヒロミ, Eguchi Hiromi).


=== Baul ===
Baul (バウル, Bauru) is a Horror that possesses the body of a woman and carries around the Apostle Horror Babel. Baul is killed by Rekka.
The possessed woman is portrayed by Aya Kumeta (久米田 彩, Kumeta Aya).


== Kiba ==
These are the Horrors that appeared in Kiba Gaiden.


=== Garius and Blade ===
Garius (ガリウス, Gariusu) and Blade (ブレイド, Bureido) are two Horrors that were among the many that were absorbed by Kiba. While Garius is a serpentine flyer, Blade is a giant mantis-like monster.


== Kokuryū ==
Kokuryū (哭竜) is a dragon-like Horror that exists within the mind of Barago in Kiba Gaiden and exists in a space produced by Sigma Fudō in Makai Senki.


== Gyanon ==
Gyanon (戯阿音(ギャノン)) is one of strongest Horrors in existence, labeled as Messiah's Fang (メシアの牙, Meshia no Kiba) and the Ancient Red Demon Beast (太古の赤き魔獣, Taiko no Akaki Majū). Having seemingly died, the Makai Senate sent a group of three Makai Knights and one Makai Guide to retrieve the monster's corpse from Amber Rock Valley. However, Barago also sought the Horror and Gyanon was nowhere to be found by either party. It is revealed in Makai Senki, that Sigma Fudō had stolen Gyanon as he intends to utilize the Horror in powering up his Magōryū Idea while reviving the fiend with large numbers of human sacrifices. To achieve this goal, Sigma obtains the pelt of a Spirit Beast to ensure the revived Gyanon is under his complete control while infusing Kouga's body and soul into the Horror to complete his resurrection. Though Kouga is freed, Gyanon awakens after Idea's creation in response to Sigma's darkness, devouring him and assimilating the ultimate Gōryū while assuming his androgynous human-like form. While telling Garo that his resurrection was unplanned, Gyanon intends to take advantage to bring all Horrors into the human world. However, Idea is destroyed with the Makai Knights and Madou Priests joining forces with Gyanon reduced to a head as Garo destroys the bodiless Horror.
Gyanon is portrayed by Peter (ピーター, Pītā).


== Makai Senki ==
These are the Horrors that appear in Garo: Makai Senki.

Cigarein (シガレイン, Shigarein): A tricky Cigarette Horror (煙草ホラー, Tabako Horā) that inhabits an antique cigarette lighter owned by a murderous military officer, his method of feeding being to invoke internal combustion in his victims and swallow the airborne ashes. Cigarien's lighter eventually ends up in the possession of Eiichi Anan (阿南 英一, Anan Eiichi), a petty crook who makes an enemy out of a mob boss named Katagiri by stealing his money. Making Anan an offer to save him in return for his soul, Cigarein possesses the man before slaughtering Katagiri and his entourage. Cigarein then proceeds to devour those who are considered to be scum of society before being found by Kouga. Though he repeatedly tries to weasel out of his fight with Kouga, Cigarein is forced to assume his true war-themed armored form before Garo cuts him down. Anan's soul endures a bit before Garo stabs the soul into oblivion. Anan is portrayed by Naoto Takenaka (竹中 直人, Takenaka Naoto).
Luzagin (ルーザギン, Rūzagin): A Streetlight Horror (街灯ホラー, Gaitō Horā) that inhabits a streetlight in an area once used for unsavory executions, able to use heat and light in her attacks. Luzagin possesses the body of Shino Ichikai (一貝 志乃, Ichikai Shino), a vain yet dirty homeless woman who desires handsome men to the point of murdering them so she can have them. Acting on Ichikai's desires, Luzagin goes to captures ideal men, mutilating their bodies before freeze-drying them to add to her collection. However, she has strict physical requirements on who makes it to her collection, and devours through their shadows those who do not "pass". She eventually fights Kouga, forced to assume her true form before being cut down and left to die from the fatal wound. Ichikai is portrayed by Reona Hirota (広田 レオナ, Hirota Reona).
Melgis (メルギス, Merugisu): A Horror that is terrorizing the road by murdering those who travel through a tunnel. He is destroyed by Reo with the Gōryū Colt.
Evil Wheel Gōryū (邪輪号竜, Jarin Gōryū): Reo's Gōryū Colt which he uses to destroy the Horror Melgis. However, wounded during the fight, some of Reo's blood ends up on Colt and awakens its Horror-based instinct as it possesses a motorcycle and enhances it with multiple weapons. Eventually, Garo manages to destroy the Horror core and forces Colt out of the motorcycle.
Genojika (ゲノジカ): A bird-based Horror that possesses the body of a gambler named Kid (キッド, Kiddo), using his host to invite various gamblers to an underground casino on an island maintained by his Horror familiars. There, he has the gamblers play a life-and-death poker game where he uses his Joker card to send his victims into a limbo, where he can eat at his leisure along with those dear to the victim if they borrow chips from the house. However, posing as one of the guests, Kouga destroys the Joker card to release those among the victims still living and then the Horror himself. Kid is portrayed by Kohei Murakami (村上 幸平, Murakami Kōhei).
Death Hole (デスホール, Desu Hōru): A venus flytrap-headed Gate Horror (ゲートホラー, Gēto Horā) that emerges from a gate that manifests from a manhole cover which was manufactured by Kōji Kijima (黄島 宏二, Kijima Kōji), an artistic metal caster who left his wife Mayumi (真弓) to die under a manhole prior to the cover's creation. Possessing the body of a woman, and converting her host into the shaded woman in black, Death Hole uses Kijima to mass-produce more of the manhole covers to bring more of her kin into the world. However, while Death Hole meets her end against Garo, Kijima faces his own horrific end at the hands of his wife's specter. Kijima is portrayed by Takeshi Nadagi (なだぎ 武, Nadagi Takeshi), while the woman in black is portrayed by Hiromi Eguchi.
Erinnerung (エリンネルグ, Erinnerugu): A Horror that inhabits a tree which Osamu Shōnai (庄内 治, Shōnai Osamu) and his wife Naoe (直恵) grew from a seed that they found among the belongings of their son Masato (眞人), a wartime photographer who was killed in action. The two proceed to invite people who pass by into their house for a meal. They then poison their guests and bury them under the tree which casts an illusion of "Masato" under the moonlight which acts on the couple's stronger memory of him. Rei is invited for dinner and later poisoned as well. However, immune to poison, Rei confronts Erinnerung as it personally attacks him and kills the Horror with the couple heartbroken. Erinnerung is voiced by Yukari Okuda (奥田 ゆかり, Okuda Yukari).
Rebecca (レベッカ, Rebekka): A Horror that possesses the body of a security guard before being slain by Zero.
Kagemitsu (カゲミツ): A Horror that inhabits a katana, originally owned by a man named Ukyō (右京) who was turned into a Horror familiar. But one day, a skilled swordsman named Igari Jūzō (猪狩 重蔵) finds Ukyō and cuts him down. Having seen a Makai Knight in his youth, yet unaware of his identity, Jūzō had made it his life's goal to search for an opponent like that figure. But suffering from an illness and have little time left to live, Jūzō accepts Kagemitsu's offer of a second chance in life in return to give him the blood of living people. It takes the Horror several centuries to heal Jūzō, placing the samurai in suspended animation before reviving him in the modern era. However, as he follows bushidō, Jūzō is disappointed that he cannot find someone strong to fight with until he finds Rei by chance and challenges him. But as Kagemistu refuses to allow him to use the sword until he draws blood, Jūzō is forced to fight Rei with makeshift bokkens made from broomsticks. The duel cannot be truly concluded as Jūzō's symptoms resurface and Rei admits defeat, with Jūzō learning fully of the Makai Knights from Kagemitsu as the Horror demands blood if the human wants his help to maintain his health as well as using his sword. Still refusing to cut any innocent down to honor his pact, Jūzō commits seppuku instead to quench the blade's thirst, along with absorbing the horrified Kagemitsu, becoming his host. Surprisingly, as noted by Silva, Jūzō remains in control of his body as he forces Rei to resume their duel as Horror and Makai Knight, though Rei sees that the samurai had potential to become a Makai Knight, due to the surprising fact of being able to pick up one of Rei's swords without trouble despite having never touched Soul Metal before. Jūzō is eventually slain, dying with satisfaction that he was defeated by the blade of one stronger than him. But learning of Kouga as an even stronger fighter, Jūzō hands Rei his wakizashi before turning into ash. Igari is portrayed by Kohei Otomo (大友 康平, Ōtomo Kōhei) and Kagemitsu is voiced by Rintarō Nishi (西 凛太朗, Nishi Rintarō).
Agturus (アグトゥルス, Aguturusu): A Horror that inhabits a makeup box, altering appearances to whatever suits him. Agturus possesses the body of Ryūnosuke Takamine (高峯 龍之介, Takamine Ryūnosuke), an aged frail janitor at a theater who was once a star stage actor in the play The Sword of Arcite. His frustration over a flamboyant actor ruining the play as the lead attracts the Horror. After being possessed with his youth restored, Ryūnosuke devours the other actor and takes the stage for his own. Kouga eventually buys all the tickets to one of his plays one night to have a showdown with him, eventually cutting him down. Takamine is portrayed by Mayo Kawasaki (川崎 麻世, Kawasaki Mayo).
Zuformer (ズフォーマー, Zufōmā): A serpentine Furious Sky Horror (烈空ホラー, Rekkū Horā) that flies at fast speeds. Sent to kill it, Kouga is forced to wait the Horror out before slaying it.
Yashaul (ヤシャウル, Yashauru): A Horror that appears at the site of a traffic accident where she possesses the nearby dead body of Toshiko Hoshikawa (星川 敏子, Hoshikawa Toshiko), a pâtissière who was forcing her daughter Misao (ミサオ) to follow in her footsteps. When Misao attempts to commit suicide to escape the pressure, Toshiko sacrifices herself to stop her daughter prior to being possessed. Using Toshiko's body, Yashual assumes her host's identity and uses Misao's guilt to manipulate her. The Horror is eventually found and slain by Rei, though the deed pained him a bit as he is forced to leave Misao heartbroken. Toshiko is portrayed by Yōko Ishino (いしの ようこ, Ishino Yōko), while Misao is portrayed by Nako Mizusawa (水沢 奈子, Mizusawa Nako).
Raizon (ライゾン): A Horror from Kouga's childhood, who devoured the friends he made during his training under Wataru Shijima. In the present day, Kouga crosses paths with Raizon and avenges his friends' deaths by slaying Raizon personally. In Gold Storm Sho, a Raizon appeared in the flashback of Jinga's story.
Sedinbale (セディンベイル, Sedinbeiru): An ancient Horror who can use word characters in her abilities and attacks, using printed words as gates. Due to her vast Makai-related knowledge, Sedinbale is sealed with a Madō Book instead of being destroyed so Makai Priests can gain access to her knowledge. However, breaking Sedinbale's seal, the red-masked man has the Horror help him translate the old Makai script in his possession before allowing the Horror to act on her whim. Being pursued by Rekka and Kouga, Sedinbale takes the body of a young woman who surrounds herself in depraved words before targeting Kaoru. Revealing Kouga's condition with Kaoru present, Sedinbale battles Garo and Rekka before they manage to rip the main character from the Horror's body and seal it into a Madō Book. The possessed woman is portrayed by Asami.


== Yami o Terasu Mono ==
Bride (花嫁, Hanayome): Portrayed by Miku Sano (佐野 光来, Sano Miku).
Palkeira (パルケイラ, Parukeira): A large Horror that can uses its brute strength and scorpion tail tongues to attack an opponent. During the events of Yami o Terasu Mono, a Palkeira in Vol City over gorged on humans and was trapped underground, using one of its two disembodied hands into a naked woman as an effective lure before it was destroyed by the Makai Knights. The naked woman is portrayed by Yukiko Suoh (周防 ゆきこ, Suō Yukiko).
Danda (壇田; 4, 5): A man who becomes the vessel of a Horror that emerges from a radio. Danda is portrayed by Namihei Koshige.
Yuya (ユーヤ, Yūya): An overweight Horror who is normally weak until exposure to Shin's music gives him a power boost. Portrayed by Katsuya (勝矢)
Man (8): Portrayed by Makoto Ito (伊藤 慎, Itō Makoto).
Miho Toyama (遠山 未歩, Tōyama Miho): A teacher who became the vessel of a Horror that devours students periodically, sparing only those she considers promising. However, Ms. Toyama is forced to consume Haruka Kitajima and her family when the girl witnesses her true form. With the aid of Haruka's classmate Hiroki Tsuboi, Ryuga slays Ms. Toyama with her death covered up. Portrayed by Nao Nagasawa (長澤 奈央, Nagasawa Nao).
Boara (菩阿羅): A Horror in the service of the Kaneshiro Group who is based at the nightclub Paradaice. Able to read the minds of others and assume the form of what they desire, Boara lulls her victims into a moment of weakness and turns them into a vapor she consumes. Her victims are mostly men who the Kaneshiro Group are disposing of before Ryuga and Rian destroy Boara and her business. Portrayed by Nao Oikawa, while her naked young woman, mature woman, and plump woman forms are portrayed by Mana Sakura (紗倉 まな, Sakura Mana), Kyoko Hayami (速水 今日子, Hayami Kyōko), and Naru Nashio (なしお 成, Nashio Naru).
Maki (万樹): A violinist who became the vessel of a Horror that devoured an opera singer before being found and killed by Takeru and Aguri. Portrayed by Hirotsugu Imamura (今村 浩継, Imamura Hirotsugu).
Karen (華漣): Tousei Kaneshiro's mother, a fallen Makai Priestess who was left to care for her child after her lover Kensui Kaneshiro abandoned them. Becoming a Vol City resident, Karen raised Tousei to believe that he is destined for greater things. However, while entertaining her guests, Karen ends up being possessed by a Horror that her teenage son deliberately summoned into their home. Portrayed by Makoto Togashi (冨樫 真, Togashi Makoto).


=== Madō Horrors ===
"Madō Horrors" (魔導ホラー, Madō Horā; "Heretic Horrors") are a unique form of Horror first created by Zedom by infusing human bodies with Horror Seeds, which germinate into Madō Horror Plants that spread across the body. As a result, unlike regular Horrors, Madō Horrors are born directly within the bodies of humans regardless if they have an innate darkness or not, willing or otherwise. Though bound ultimately to serve Zedom, Madō Horrors also answer to anyone who sires them as loyal servants in Zedom's absence. The personality of the sired human is retained to an extent, but warped in a way to suit to its master's needs, allowing Madō Horrors to adapt more easily than Inga Horrors with the need to feed a secondary priority. The need varies from one person to another, some might feed constantly while others only do so when they need to fight better or heal damage. Due to their fundamentally different nature from Inga Horrors, they are capable of hiding from the usual means of Horror detection, with Makai Knights and Makai Priests forced to use investigative deduction to hunt Madō Horrors before developing a specific device that exposes a Madō Horror's red eyes and lined face markings to confirm their identity. Unlike most Inga Horrors that devour human bodies, Madō Horrors rip the soul off a human and devour it with the body turning to dust. In a fight, Madō Horrors can create weapons from parts of their bodies and are stronger than Inga Horrors. The process of Madō Horrors being sired varies on their inner strength, which can be quickened to a certain extent with Zedom's Requiem. Due to the possibility of being sired without consciously knowing it, the turned humans can be blissfully unaware of the transformation until their powers and nature awaken by their first feeding. Ultimately, because of their origins as innocents, a Madō Horror is as much a victim as those they consume.
During the events of Yami o Terasu Mono, Tousei creates his Madō Horror minions, using them to create a shadow empire within Vol City, from the Madō Horror Plants resulting from forcing Hakana to germinate Madō Horror Plants from the Zedom Seeds, seeded within her by accident from Zedom's Arm. However, Hakana altered the batch of Madō Horror Plants inside her for the purpose of restoring the Garo armor. As a result of singing enhancing them and the armor's restoration, these stronger Madō Horrors can only be slain by one bearing the title of Garo. However, other than Ryuga seeing Hakana's memories, there is adverse effect from killing these Madō Horrors one by one as the armor temporary regains its glow while rendering it unwearable for the moment. It was when all Madō Horrors in the city were slain that the Garo armor was restored to its original state.

Masahiko Washizu (鷲頭 正彦, Washizu Masahiko): The manager of Kaneshiro Real Estate, tending to only use his Horror powers whenever dealing with someone proves to be a hassle. Though slain by Ryuga, a scale from Washizu's body ends up in the possession of a youth named Shin who used it as a guitar pick before Ryuga destroys it. Portrayed by Junichi Haruta (春田 純一, Haruta Jun'ichi).
Hideyuki Shiranami (白波 秀行, Shiranami Hideyuki): The manager of Vol City's Immigration Bureau who desires to make others happy, bringing people accepted by the city to a manor in Vol City's Dream Garden Hills community where they are devoured by the Horrors residing there. Shiranami almost fed the Suzuki family to his familiars before the Makai Knights intervening with Ryuga and Takeru slaying the Horror. Portrayed by Kenji Mizuhashi (水橋 研二, Mizuhashi Kenji).
Tsumazaki (妻崎): The manager of Kaneshiro Foods' factory with a warped work mentality, Tsumazaki is tasked to develop a method by his kin where human souls can be stored within capsules to be ingested later. Wounded by Aguri, Tsumazaki is slain by Garo. Portrayed by Hideaki Kusaka (日下 秀昭, Kusaka Hideaki).
Councilor: A Vol City councilor and the first of the Madō Horrors to be hunted down after the development of the Madō Horror Detector. Though Aguri's arrows had no effect on him, the Councilor is decapitated by Garo before being finally destroyed. Portrayed by Yoshinori Okamoto (岡本 美登, Okamoto Yoshinori).
Doctor: A doctor of Vol City's central hospital, he is slain by Garo when he fell into a trap that he, Rian, and Takeru set up. Portrayed by Yujiro Komura (小村 裕次郎, Komura Yūjirō).
Hyena (ハイエナ, Haiena): Originally known as Kaga Kaneshiro, he worked as a psychologist in the eastern district before being turned into a Madō Horror by his brother Tousei and rendered mute for being a blabbermouth. Forced to flee to the graveyard after being stripped of his ability to speak, Kaga came to be known as the deranged grave keeper Hyena due to being forced to feed on remnant human souls to survive. Hyena also becomes one of Vol City's urban legends as those who see him were said to fall ill in three days and die three days later. When Ryuga and Rian found him, with the latter restoring his voice, Hyena acts as a pervert to get Ryuga alone while lying of wanting to be human again. From there, revealing Zedom while hiding his true identity and that of his brother as the Madō Horrors' leader, Hyena sends Aguri and Takeru on suicide missions while managing to trick and restrain Ryuga. However, tricking Hyena at the last second, Ryuga dons the Garo armor and slays the Madō Horror. Hyena is portrayed by Dankan (ダンカン).


=== Zedom ===
Zedom (ゼドム, Zedomu) is an Ancient Horror, labeled as the Battle Commander of Slaughter (殺戮の闘将, Satsuriku no Tōshō), whose body is composed of various blocks and alter themselves into weapons. Zedom created the first Madō Horrors in order to create the most powerful Horror army to conquer the world. However, Zedom is defeated by the Makai Priests of old with his body broken into pieces and each part sealed at various locations, with his head buried under the site of Vol City with the Goddess Statue erected, through the sacrifice of large numbers of Makai Priests, to keep the Horror imprisoned. The seeds from his body parts that were used to create Madō Horrors were entrusted to the Makai Priests who sealed the Horror, with two Makai Priestesses enacting a ritual where they open the Hill of Zedom's Arm's seals long enough to painfully absorb a Zedom seed, and grow a Madō Horror Plant from which Soul Metal is developed from. Though sealed, Zedom retained consciousness and witnessed the Makai Knights' birth, resulted in his resentment of the Makai Order for using his body parts to develop weapons used against his kind.
Due to Tousei's actions fifteen years prior, Zedom's arm briefly emerged from the corrupted seal it was trapped in, infusing Hakana with more seeds than initially intended and knocked her out. When he attempts to harvest a new supply of seeds from the Horror's head for Rian to absorb, Tousei ends up awakening Zedom when one of the seeds accidentally falls back into the seal. As a result, Zedom begins to destroy the Goddess Statue in order to break free from his prison while having Sonshi acquire a Makai Knight to serve as his new body. Taking the lifeless Sonshi after he was killed as a vessel and altering it into a militant dressed form, Zedom attempts to recruit the Makai Knights in serving him before resolving to remake the world in his image. Although he is incredibly powerful, Zedom inadvertently created a weak spot within himself when he destroyed Burai, who offered to serve as a host to stop the Horror. Further weakened by a special arrow fired by Aguri into the said spot, Zedom is slain by the combined effort of the Makai Knights under the Garo armor's influence.
Zedom is portrayed by Makoto Otake (大竹 まこと, Ōtake Makoto).


== Zero: Black Blood ==


=== Ring ===
Ring (リング, Ringu) is a powerful skeletal and anthropomorphic bird-like Horror who is the main antagonist of Zero: Black Blood, appearing in the form of a handsome European gentleman dressed immaculately and predominantly in a white suit. Unlike most of his kind, though he considers humanity very selfish, Ring actually plans to have co-existence between his kind with humans as an improvement to how his kind normally feed, believing that doing so will bring lasting peace to both humans and Horrors. Ring begins this agenda by establishing a community where he offers sanctuary to humans escaping from reality. His only condition for someone to be accepted into the community is to undergo a monthly lottery, where there is a 2% chance that one of them would ingest a pill containing crystallized Horror blood to become a Blood Dolce (血のドルチェ, Chi no Doruche) for his fellow Horrors to feed on. Ring's plan also relied on Iyu's calming singing ability, having also fallen in love with her to the point of obsession as it allowed him to maintain his sense of self, and keeping the humans serene and indifferent to the arrangement. Though Ring usually opts to settle things peacefully instead of resorting to violence, he is a powerful Horror who can transform his feathers into various weapons. In a state of rage however, Ring reverts to his colossal true form where he loses control over his Horror instincts unless Iyu sings to him. After devouring Iyu when she refuses to sing for him any longer, Ring is eventually slain by Zero with help from Yuna.
Ring is portrayed by Thane Camus (セイン・カミュ, Sein Kamyu).


== Makai no Hana ==
Succubus (サキュバス, Sakyubasu): A Horror resembling a Venus flytrap that emerged from a pair of pruning shears which belong to Erina Tokiwa (常盤 エリナ, Tokiwa Erina), an ikebana artist who currently creates works with the theme of death. Dissatisfied with her current works, Erina commits acts of murder to get to higher stages of her art, which causes her to be possessed. Allowed to maintain her sense of self in the possession, Erina acts on her desire to create art from victims by petrifying them for her art, her new mannequins sprouting flowers whose petals she consumes. Erina takes an interest in Mayuri and intended to make the girl into her masterpiece before Raiga intervened. Despite losing interest later due to realizing that Mayuri is but an object, she fights Raiga nonetheless due to him destroying her work. During the battle that followed, Succubus is slain by Raiga with Erina lasting long enough for the euphoria of her impending death to turn into utter dread. Erina is portrayed by Hinako Saeki (佐伯 日菜子, Saeki Hinako).
Ilgishin (イルギシン, Irugishin): A Horror that emerged from an old horror film that is able to send people into illusionary worlds, possessing characteristics of various Horror movie characters that include Freddy Krueger, Leatherface, and Pinhead. Ilgishin possesses the body of Harima (ハリマ), a Horror film buff projectionist who allows the Horror to enter him so he can enact revenge on his manager for intending to close the movie theater down. Acting on Harima's passion, instead of feeding, Ilgishin places his victims in films to watch them get killed off by the film's monstrous antagonists. When Raiga refuses to play by his rules, Ilgishin personally battles the Makai Knight before being destroyed when Raiga uses his Makai Flame to burn him and his film away. Harima is portrayed by Kitaro (きたろう, Kitarō).
Egosiren (エゴサイレーン, Egosairēn): A glass-based Horror that possesses the body of Shimada (シマダ), the owner of a wind chime shop who Raiga met as a child and taught him on how to make a wind chime - a memento which he has kept to the present day. However, after his son and apprentice Tetsuya died in a car crash, Shimada ended up becoming the host of Egosiren as he places pieces of his being into wind chimes that transform into ghostly women in kimono to devour buyers. When Raiga learns of this, he sees no other way to save Shimada other than slaying him. Shimada is portrayed by Hiroki Matsukata (松方 弘樹, Matsukata Hiroki), while the woman in kimono is portrayed by Kaori Tsubaki (椿 かおり, Tsubaki Kaori).
Grimzora (グリムゾーラ, Gurimuzōra): A Horror that is Raiga's 100th slain Horror. The Horror makes a surprise attack on Raiga near the Tower of Heroic Spirits but ends up being slain by him.
Delitus (デリィータス, Deryītasu): A giant Oni-faced Horror that takes the form of a traditional Japanese straw-thatched house with its core assuming the form of a patriarch Ichiro (イチロウ, Ichirō) and his family: his wife Mako (マコ) and their children Jiro (ジロウ, Jirō), Mami (マミ), Saburo (サブロウ, Saburō), Shiro (シロウ, Shirō), Mari (マリ), and Goro (ゴロウ, Gorō). Tricking people into entering their abode, the family makes the guest feel welcomed and joyful before tossing them into the empty communal pot in the center of the house to stew. From there, the house vanishes and appears at another unlikely location. Raiga arrives when they are about to cook their latest victim and is framed as a villain but shortly after, he reveals their deception. After being overwhelmed, Delitus assumes its true form with Raiga slaying the Horror with the help of Gōten. Ichiro is portrayed by Guts Ishimatsu (ガッツ石松, Gattsu Ishimatsu), while his family is portrayed by Yoko Oshima (大島 蓉子, Ōshima Yōko), Takuro Takahashi (高橋 卓郎, Takahashi Takurō), Yumi Yoshino (芳野 友美, Yoshino Yumi), Tsubasa Matsuzaki (松崎 飛翼, Matsuzaki Tsubasa), Fubomichi Takazawa (高澤 父母道, Takazawa Fubomichi), Aoi Ito (伊東 蒼, Itō Aoi), and Kotaro Fujitomi (藤冨 航太郎, Fujitomi Kōtarō).
Lizary (リザリー, Rizarī): An insect-based Horror that emerged from the corpse of a woman that was raped and murdered by his host, a disturbed university student named Mikimoto (ミキモト) who is obsessed with insects and locked himself away in the Natural Science Club. As Lizary is a Horror that does not fully manifest after possessing a human body, Mikimoto is unaware of the possession with his perception altered to believe his unconscious feedings were the work of the woman's corpse, believing her to be a random person he found who is an insect in human form, and his subsequent victims to be molted forms of the said corpse. Eventually, after Mayuri unlocks Mikimoto's memories, a fully manifested Lizary takes over his host's body before being slain by the combined efforts of Raiga and Crow. Mikimoto is portrayed by Tokio Emoto (柄本 時生, Emoto Tokio).
Caricatuan (カリカジュアン, Karikajuan): An ink-based Horror that emerged from a dip pen which belongs to Seiji Kawabata (カワバタ セイジ, Kawabata Seiji), a manga artist who has become shadowed by newer manga artists with his talent and renown slowly fading. Kawabata ends up becoming Caricatuan's host when he attempts to kill an assistant who is leaving and insulted him prior, using his new power to regain his former glory by turning his victims into manga caricatures that he eats to gain their talents. Though a barrier is created around his workshop which effectively hides his presence as a Horror, his actions in accidentally using ancient Makai script in the popular manga Makai King he created under Caricatuan's influence tips off Raiga and Mayuri. He uses manga images to fight the Makai Knight, and assumes that he will be victorious by scripting every single aspect of the battle up to Raiga's death. However, Caricatuan is slain when the last panel is blotched by Raiga. Kawabata lasts in human form just long enough to be praised by Mayuri for Ninja Rin, his first manga drawn during elementary school. Kawabata is portrayed by Masanori Ishii (石井 正則, Ishii Masanori).
Profundes (プロファンデス, Purofandesu): A Horror whose eyes are located on the skull-shaped side of her head, Profundes is particularly detested by the Makai warriors, as her feeding methods require subjecting many victims at the same time to sheer terror and then drag them into the Demon World. Profundes possesses the body of Kiera (キエラ), an amusement park ride developer who wears a witch's outfit, and she uses her host's skills to develop a motion simulator that doubles as a portal to the Makai realm. Kiera succeeds in setting up an arrangement with the Okura company, but her feeding is thwarted by Raiga. Profundes battles him in the entrance to the Demon World before he slays her. Kiera is portrayed by Mao Miyaji (宮地 真緒, Miyaji Mao).
Duoct (ドゥオクト, Duokuto): A mechanical Giant Figure Horror (巨偶ホラー, Kyogū Horā) that captures a pure-hearted human inside its body to serve as its power source, before going out to feed. After capturing a high school girl named Saki Mizuno (ミズノ サキ, Mizuno Saki) Duoct hunts humans together with a Horror familiar that assumes Saki's appearance. However, some of Saki's thoughts still leak to hold Duoct back, which is presumed as mechanical glitches from the outside. After the fake Saki is slain by Crow, Raiga pulls off a gambit to allow himself be captured by Duoct to destroy it from the inside while saving the real Saki, who is unconscious and has no memory of her time inside the Horror. Saki is portrayed by Sakina Kuwae (桑江 咲菜, Kuwae Sakina).


=== Ady Slate Horrors ===
In Garo: Makai no Hana, besides the run of the mill Inga Horrors, there are nine special Horrors used by Makai Priests in the foundation of Eyrith's sealing. Unlike common Horrors, having been exposed to Eyrith's power, their personalities are dominant over their human hosts to the point where they won't recognize people the humans had known. They cannot be sealed within Makai Blades when vanquished and their essence congeals into stones. Mayuri is sent by the Senate to seal these stones due her power to seal Horrors within her body, using them to reform the Ady Slate after Eyrith is defeated.

Azdab (アズダブ, Azudabu): A fish-like Horror who is the first of the Ady Slate Horrors Raiga encounters. Upon his freedom, Azdab possesses the body of the museum security guard Sekiya (セキヤ) after sensing the human's inner darkness from having murdered a girl. From there, Azdab proceeds to scare his victims with his water-based body before manifesting a swarm of piranha to eat them alive. Ultimately, Azdab is not a particularly powerful fighter and is soon slain by Raiga with Mayuri sealing him once he congregates into a stone. Sekiya is portrayed by Yūki Himura (日村 勇紀, Himura Yūki).
Exta (エクスタ, Ekusuta): A one-eyed spider-like Horror that once freed, assumed the form of a cat before possessing a shabby and old homeless woman after sensing her inner darkness. Altering her host to look youthful, Exta uses her power to assume the form of an object to ambush her prey. While she is a decent fighter, Exta mostly ran from Raiga and Crow before fighting the former in her true form before being sealed by Mayuri once congregated into a stone. The possessed woman is portrayed by Aki Hano (羽野 晶紀, Hano Aki).
Stellas (ステラス, Suterasu): Stellas possesses the body of Luke (ルーク, Rūku), an English-speaking foreigner and serial killer who murders people because he claims that they are "his stars". Stellas is a flamboyant goofball who toys with his victims bilingually, and then turns his prey into stardust that he inhales. In his true form, Stellas is capable of flight and creating meteor-like Inga Stars. After being grounded by Crow's flight abilities, Stellas is slain by Raiga and then sealed by Mayuri once congregated into a stone. Luke is portrayed by Thane Camus.
Granda (グランダ, Guranda): A mechanical spherical Horror able to turn invisible and create clones of itself. As Granda is a type of Horror whose upcoming location is confirmed despite the time of arrival a mystery, Raiga and Mayuri wait it out before the former slays it and sealed by the latter once congregated into a stone.
Idora (イドラ): A holder of Eyrith's seed, possessing the body of a young woman to move about. Though Idora is slain by Raiga as Eyrith transfers into one of her fellow Ady Slate Horrors still active, her essence attempts to take advantage of Mayuri's weakening condition from opening her inner cage during the encounter with Barg to regain physical form. Luckily, Raiga uses a Makai spell to enter Mayuri's consciousness to metaphysically destroy Idora and save Mayuri. The possessed woman is portrayed by Haruka Ando (安藤 遥, Andō Haruka).
Latel (ラテル, Rateru): Latel is a powerful Horror who seeks equally powerful opponents to devour. Latel first defeats the fallen Makai Knight Izumo (イズモ), Bikuu's younger brother, before possessing his body to go after another worthy opponent. This leads to Latel going after Raiga, only to be slain by Raiga after Bikuu targeted a weak point on her brother's body. Once Latel is reduced to a stone, Bikuu proceeds to purify what remained of Izumo's body. Izumo is portrayed by Sanshiro Wada (和田 三四郎, Wada Sanshirō).
Abysscore (アビスコア, Abisukoa): Abysscore is a Horror who uses music to hypnotize his victims into a state of euphoria before converting them into cotton-candy like Life Scores. Possessing the body of a crazed conductor named Johann (ヨハン, Yohan), he goes on a feeding frenzy with the aid of his Makai March band before becoming bored with normal humans. This leads to Abysscore to target Raiga and Mayuri, only to be slain with Johann lasting long enough to praise the song of Raiga's soul. Johann is portrayed by Rolly.
Gogeet (ゴギート, Gogīto): A bat-like sword-wielding Horror that is an eccentric sadist who possessed the body of a young man named Matō (マトウ) and prefers to toy with his victims, before devouring them. While he normally eats humans, Gogeet can devour other Horrors as well, despite not liking it much. After becoming the host of Eyrith's seed, Gogeet gains the ability to create an illusion of his first victim: a little girl that he devoured in front of her father. Gogeet calls the illusion "Ai" and refers to her as his daughter to put Raiga at a disadvantage. But after losing his ability, Gogeet gloats the truth about Ai and is slain by an enraged Raiga after being attacked with extreme prejudice. Matō is portrayed by Dai Watanabe (渡辺 大, Watanabe Dai).
Jienda (ジエンダ): The last of the Ady Slate Horrors, Jienda is a Horror with an eye for a right hand. Having just possessed the body of a young woman, Jienda become the final host of Eyrith's seed. However, she is soon found by Eiji Busujima and easily knocked out so he can extract the seed from the Ady Slate Horror when she congregates back into a stone. The possessed woman is portrayed by Hiromi Eguchi.


=== Eyrith ===
Eyrith (エイリス, Eirisu) is an ancient plant-like Horror labeled as Messiah's Tear (メシアの涙, Meshia no Namida), and the originator of the Makai Trees. Eyrith is also tied to a legend that her flower, the Makai Flower (魔戒ノ花, Makai no Hana), has the power to resurrect the dead. Ages ago, Eyrith was sealed in the Ady Slate (アディーの石板, Adī no Sekiban) by Makai Priests using nine other Horrors as foundation stones. Having left the slate where it was after the sealing is completed rather than secure it, the slate was forgotten throughout the ages even by the Makai Order until it was eventually dug up in present-day by archaeologists. The slate ended up in a museum as an archaeological relic until a mysterious person, who is later revealed to be Eiji Busujima, unraveled the seal after opening hours.
Despite the slate's unsealing, Eyrith remains as a seed and is hidden within Idora, one of the Ady Slate Horrors who were also freed and each possessing the first human with inner darkness they come across. However, as Mayuri explained in the worst-case scenario, Eyrith would bloom within 100 days and enable Messiah's return by removing the boundaries that separate the human world from the Demon World. Though Raiga nearly succeeds in capturing it by slaying Idora once he finds her, Eyrith escapes by transferring its essence into the Ady Slate Horror Gogeet. As such, it is deemed impossible to capture and seal Eyrith until the remaining Ady Slate Horrors have been slain and sealed first. Despite Raiga finding and slaying Gogeet, Eyrith transfers into the last Ady Slate Horror left, Jienda, which is soon captured and Eyrith's seed is extracted by Eiji Busujima.
Accepting Busujima's wish to bring back his lover, Eyrith produces a cloned body of Akari that will come to life the moment Horror is fully grown and blooms. When the time of her blooming draws near, Eyrith intends to turn Mayuri into her host to reach the place where she can bloom. However, Crow offers himself to her in order to spare Mayuri. Seeing that the now-repentant Busijima no longer has his original wish, Eyrith cancels her pact with him and brutally beats him up when he tries to stop her. Once reaching her destination, Eyrith leaves Crow's body and assumes her true human-like form before proceeding to grow into a giant tree. From there, recruiting Zaji to wipe out the line of Garo by targeting Rekka and Rian, Eyrith proceeds to spirit numerous Horrors from across time and space so that the bulb on top of her body can bloom and she can unleash a Horror army on the world. When Raiga attempts to destroy the bulb, Eyrith manifests a nude demonic version of her human form to fight him. Ultimately, the fight ends with Eyrith revealed to be the one who took Raiga's parents from him before she uses her temporal powers to suck out the Makai Knight's remaining time in the Garo armor so he can drive off his friends in his Lost Soul Beast form while she can bloom without interference. However, Raiga is later awakened as the Light Awakening Beast Garo and promptly resume to foil her plans. In a desperate bid to further demoralize Raiga, she tells him that all she has summoned are Horrors in both the past and the future and how his attempts have ended in vain, to which Raiga asserts that they will be taken care of by the Makai Knights of the past and future, as he proceeds to destroy the rest of her tree body. Left defenseless, Mayuri releases all nine stones at once and seals what remains of Eyrith in the Ady Slate once more.
Eyrith is portrayed by Momoko Kuroki (黒木 桃子, Kuroki Momoko).


== Gold Storm Sho ==
These are the Horrors that appear in the film and television series Garo: Gold Storm Sho. The majority of Horrors in the television series are recruited servants of Jinga.

Murado (ムラド): A bone-based Horror who possessed the body of a slum boss at the Wild Cat Bar, employing Horror familiars. When he learned that Rian is hunting him, Murado uses hoodlums Okabe and Fukaya to steal her Makai Gun so he and his familiars can kill her without trouble. But Ryuga's arrival ruins that and Murado finds himself slain by Ryuga after revealing himself in the restored Garo armor. Portrayed by Kazuya Shimizu (清水 一哉, Shimizu Kazuya).
Okabe (オカベ): A hoodlum employed by Murado alongside Fukaya to steal Rian's Makai Gun, awarded with money. But one bill is revealed to be a Inga gate as Okabe later ends up being possessed by a Horror before being slain by Agō. Portrayed by Hiroyuki Yasoshima (八十島 弘行, Yasoshima Hiroyuki).
Hell Zwei (ヘルツバイ, Heru Tsubai): A Horror that possesses the body of a girl, splitting into two to pose as twin sisters that can merge back into their true form. Hell Zwei is the third Horror that Ryuga has been encountering since a mysterious increase of Horror manifestations, Rian capturing one of the twins before the other appears with Ryuga arriving to pursue them. After attempting to hinder their pursuer by throwing humans at him, the twins assume their true form and attempt to kill a girl caught in the crossfire until Rian arrives to cancel their fusion. The twins attempt to convince Ryuga to let them have a final meal, but he refuses as he equips the Garo armor and cuts the reformed Hell Zwei down the middle. The possessed girl and her clone are portrayed by MIO and YAE, while both are voiced by Akiko Tanaka (田中 晶子, Tanaka Akiko).
Bicro (ビクロ, Bikuro): A moth-winged Horror in the service of Jinga that manifests from the body of a man that Amily flung off a building. Allowed to act on his own devices, Bicro was about to eat a lady when Ryuga intercepts the Horror and forces him to flee. Bicro later gets instructions from Amily to find the red dagger that was part of the Hōken, facing Ryuga again before being slain by the Makai Knight with Rian's assistance. The possessed man is portrayed by Hidekazu Ichinose (市瀬 秀和, Ichinose Hidekazu).
Bukeri (ブケリ): A blade-based Horror that feeds on live prey by stabbing into them, releasing a pressure through the victim's body that causes it explode before the blade sucks up the blood. By chance, Bukeri possesses the body of a robber named Hayashi (ハヤシ), eating his host's partner. Then, with indirect assistance from Amily, Bukeri fatally injures Mina with Rian watching the young woman die while Ryuga eventually slays Bukeri. Hayashi is portrayed by Kazuki Namioka (波岡 一喜, Namioka Kazuki).
Scriptlla (スクリプトラ, Sukuriputora): A Horror that emerged from a type writer in the room where Risa and her accomplice Sakuma (サクマ) were placed after being captured by Jinga and Amily to be made into Horror hosts. Though Risa was saved by Ryuga and Rian, Sakuma ended up being possessed by Scriptlla before being slain by Ryuga. Sakuma is portrayed by Takahiro Kuroishi (黒石 高大, Kuroishi Takahiro).
Vestage (ヴェスタージ, Vesutāji): A Ganesha-like Horror that possesses the body of Danke (ダンケ), the owner of an antique shop who has been distributing Inga gates across the city and has become a Horror after killing the one who murdered his beloved. But Danke is not bothered by transition, seeing no distinction between remorseless murderers and Horrors. When found by Rian, Danke captures her and attempts to make her a Horror's host. But she escapes before being joined by Ryuga as he destroys the Inga gates with Danke assuming his Horror form in response. But in the end, Vestage is killed and devoured by Jinga. Danke is portrayed by Lou Oshiba (ルー大柴, Rū Ōshiba).
Ressade (レッサード, Ressādo): A mandible-mouth Horror that possesses the body of Sumida (スミダ), spending his day looking for a perfect dinner by targeting food vendors and preceding to feed on them after sunset. Ressade is eventually found by Ryuga and is slain after the Makai Knight equips the Garo armor with Gald supporting him. Sumida is portrayed by Michael Tomioka (マイケル富岡, Maikeru Tomioka).
Woska (ウォスカ, Wosuka): A Horror that possesses the body of a heavily built man with knowledge of martial arts. Woska can be considered the most hated Horror before he targets children trained by Makai Knights as his food, his presence detected by Ryume after he devoured the students of Seiji Hiba, who cut off the Horror's ear to track him down to Daigo's school. Though Seiji manages to get his revenge with the help of Ryuga and Daigo, the fighting having worn the two Makai Knights out, Woska's displaced essence is absorbed by Jinga and Amily. The possessed man is portrayed by Masakatsu Funaki (船木 誠勝, Funaki Masakatsu).
Zeraza (ゼラーザ, Zerāza): A festive Horror with power over electricity, using it to travel currents or enter electronic devices. Having possessed the body of a woman in a flamenco dress, Zeraza helps Jinga deal with Ryuga in return for entry into Radan, or the fallen Makai Knight's love if impossible. However, Zeraza is slain when Ryuga uses his tactics to ground the Horror's lightning attacks and delivered a slash that bifurcates her from the waist down. The possessed woman is portrayed by Mie (未唯, Mii).
Hedera (ヘデラ): An Ent-like Horror that possesses the body of a business man, able to use vines in his attacks. Hedera is sent by Jinga and Amily to find the Houken in Yousei Forest with a hundred humans as payment. When Ryuga intervenes, Hedera assumes his true form before the Makai Knight destroys him after equipping the Garo armor. The possessed man is portrayed by Kyosuke Yabe (やべ きょうすけ, Yabe Kyōsuke).
Geril (ゲリル, Geriru): A rotting-fish-like Horror that possesses the body of a drown man, able to turn into water. Geril is placed in the same cell as Garudo by Jinga in the fallen Makai Knight's attempt to get the whereabouts of the Houken from him. Though given permission to eat Garudo when the Makai Priest saw through him, Geril is ordered by Jinga to stop with the promise to eat Rian. Though Geril assumes his true form at Jinga's command, he is frozen in place by Rian as Ryuga slays him in the Garo armor. The possessed man is portrayed by Ken Maeda (前田 健, Maeda Ken).
Begul (ベグル, Beguru): A giant humanoid crustacean Horror that dwells under the waters of a swamp, the tip of its tongue assuming the form of a naked woman that functions as an esca that preys on fishermen. Begul continued to feed until the large amount of dark energy it gave off attracted the attention of Ryuga, Rian, and Gald on the notion that it is Radan. After Gald confirms the Horror is not Radan, Rian lures the monster out of the swamp so she and Ryuga can hold it off while Gald seals the swamp to keep the Horror from retreating back to the water. Though the Horror nearly overwhelmed them, Ryuga noticed a crack he made in the Horror's carapace and has Rian delay his Garo armor so he can be in a position for the armor to do the most damage. Ryuga then proceeds to destroy the Horror from the inside out. The naked woman is portrayed by Mero Imai (今井 メロ, Imai Mero).
Gueldina (ゲルダイナ, Gerudaina): A Horror resembling the Horror Palkeira, used by Jinga as a guard dog before it was destroyed by Ryume.


=== Degol ===
Known as the mad Horror, Degol (デゴル, Degoru) is an ancient red-skinned Horror that rampaged the area Line City was built on ages ago alongside his horde of Inga Horrors. He killed the Makai Priest Sōtatsu before being slain by the latter's creation Agō, with only his arm remaining as it was eventually sealed in a small shrine located in Line City since it could not be destroyed while the remainder of his horde were wiped out by a previous Garo. However, unaware that a fragment of Degol was in his body, Agō obtained the Horror's hand in an attempt to use Ryume to transmit the Horror's energy across Line City to kill everyone. But Degol eventually awakens and consumes Agō, creating a new centaur-like body before being slain for good by Ryuga with help from Agō.
Degol is voiced by Rintarō Nishi.


=== Radan ===
Radan (ラダン) is an ancient Horror, labeled as the Legendary Demon Castle (伝説の魔城, Densetsu no Majō), and is said to be a fortress too powerful to be destroyed. Once fully activated by two Horrors, with one becoming its ruler while the other becoming a moon that serves as its power source, Radan can absorb the life from the surrounding environment with its staff, open portals to the Demon World, fire an unlimited supply of projectiles, and command Horrors to form a scythe-like blade on its staff. The interior of Radan also serves as a defense system. Upon the death of Radan's previous king, two Makai Priests from Homura Village used the elements of yin and yang to create two daggers that form the Hōken blade that they used to seal Radan in the space between the human world and the Demon World.
In modern times, Jinga and Amily trick the Makai Priest Gen into helping them break the seal on Radan, with Jinga obtaining one of the Hōken's dagger components, while the other is retrieved by Ryuga and Rian. Jinga releases Radan with the intent to sit at its throne, going so far as to becoming cannibal to fulfill its requirement of needing its king to have consumed Horrors. Despite attempts by Ryuga and his allies to seal Radan while they still can, it is awakened during the next full moon after its release and it flies off to await its chosen denizen. Once Jinga is fully restored, he takes the throne of Radan while Amily becomes the castle's power source, while Jinga directs it to wipe out the city. Though Jinga makes Rian the new power source after Amily is too wounded to continue, she sacrifices herself to enable Ryuga to use the stolen life force to force Radan back its inactive state and then Gald reseals the castle. The Hōken is then sent to the space between the human world and the Demon World where it shatters to ensure that the seal can never be broken again.


== Jinga ==
Jinga (神牙（ジンガ）) is the main antagonist of the television series Garo: Gold Storm Sho, a cynical and arrogant manipulator who was once a Makai Knight. As revealed in Garo: Makai Retsuden, well known among the Makai Order with the nickname "Fang of God" (神の牙, Kami no Kiba) derived from his own name, Jinga first met Amily during a mission to retrieve a Spirit Beast pelt delivered by her group of Makai Priestesses. Despite unsavory first impressions, Jinga developed feelings for Amily as the two married and traveled the country to hunt Horrors while training their son Yuto (ユウト, Yūto) to become a Makai Knight. But after slaying a Horror that plagued a village that considered it a rural demon they were appeasing with human sacrifices, Jinga and Amily return to find their son was ritualistically murdered by the villagers who assumed they would not return. This causes Jinga and his wife to lose their sanity and go on a rage-filled killing spree that extended to neighboring villages before Makai Priest Moyuru sacrificed himself to allow Gald and Haruna, survivors of one of the slaughtered villages, to escape to his home village Homura. Though they intended to die for their actions, Jinga and Amily survived Moyuru's suicidal attack and end up at an Inga gate in the form of a gravestone ring in the forest at night, resulting with their Inga transforming them into their current Horror incarnations. Jinga, having been similar to Ryuga when human, saw his transition into a Horror as a liberating aphrodisiac. While once considering revenge a motive in his actions, Jinga resolves to release Radan and use its power to conquer the world.
Jinga begins his scheme of freeing Radan by tricking a Makai Priest into breaking the seal on the Horror Radan for his own agenda, acquiring one of the twin daggers that form the Hōken and seeks the other while waiting for Radan to reawaken. He also employs Horrors by creating Inga gates and offering the emerging Horrors human hosts. When the daggers resonate with each other, he and Amily casually go to meet Raiga and Rian and promptly reveal themselves to be Horrors while attempting to take their dagger. The fight ultimately ends in a stalemate as Gald grabs both blades and merges them back into the Hōken. Regardless, Jinga later abducts Gald in an attempt to find where he has hidden the Hōken, but he still has a fixation on Ryuga and orchestrates a side scheme to have the young Makai Knight give in to his darkness. After transferring his spiritual essence into Rian when his physical form is destroyed by Ryuga, Jinga attempts to consume her being to create a new body for himself while taunting Ryuga with Rian's memories. But Rian manages to make Jinga prisoner in her own mind while the others attempt to purge him from her with the waters of a holy spring. Amily stops the summoning ritual and kisses Rian to absorb Jinga's spiritual essence, offering herself for him to restore his physical form. Jinga later reconstitutes Amily's body and the two enter Radan before assuming his place as its king, while directing the giant to make its way to the city to take everyone's life energy. The plan fails and Jinga is slain by Ryuga.
In Garo: Kami no Kiba, the Horror Rinza tricks Banbi into resurrecting Jinga, as a fallen Makai Knight is needed to activate the Fang of God. The process rendering him amnesiac, Jinga fights Ryuga and his friends before fleeing with a dying Banbi whom he turns into a replica of Amily. Seeing through Rinza despite his memory loss, Jinga joins Rinza's army to use the Fang of God in order to conquer the world while using Boel to create the Fang of God and sending Banbi to fight Rian. Jinga then joins the fray while returning their knights' Makai armor to defeat them as the Fang of God activates, his memories fully restored as he kills Rinza while revealing his only motivation is settling the score with Ryuga. The two battle before Jinga is once more slain by Ryuga, reunited with Amily in the Demon World as he decides to battle an awakened Messiah.
As revealed in Kami no Kiba: Jinga, after being destroyed by Messiah, Jinga eventually reincarnated as a human and a Makai Knight named Jinga Mikage, an impossible case as Horrors do not truly die. Furthermore, due to Jinga's abilities as a cannibal Horror, Mikage possesses the ability to suppress Horrors within human hosts with the illusion of the humans being purified. Jinga eventually begins manifesting after Mikage followed a butterfly familiar conjured by Amily during one of his missions and once possessed the human to kill Shijo. Jinga finally 'introduces' himself to his reincarnated self one night, chastising Mikage for keeping to his mission as a Makai Knight and his decision of avoiding the darks aspects of their power. The resulting battle from the 'introduction' ends inconclusively, Jinga deciding to observe his reincarnated self and unconsciously manipulated the youth in breaking ties in everyone he knew and loved. Jinga then kills Mikage to complete his resurrection, devouring Toma after the two battle before departing.
Unlike most Makai Knight-turned Horrors, Jinga's original Horror form had since sculpted into a being clad in grotesque-looking Demon Beast Exoskeleton seemingly themed after Roze Armor, Makai Armor donned by his reincarnated self Mikage, which he summons forth by swiping his left fist sideways. In his armored state, Jinga can sprout webbed wings for flight and has a tail with a sharp spine on the end to grab others. As he took to eating other Horrors to prepare himself to take Radan's throne, one of the abilities Jinga acquired from it is the ability to suppress a Horror within its human host and summon it to manifest at will.
Jinga is portrayed by Masahiro Inoue (井上 正大, Inoue Masahiro).


== Amily ==
Amily (アミリ, Amiri) is Jinga's assistant, a cannibal Horror who was originally a Makai Priestess and Jinga's wife. As revealed in Garo: Makai Retsuden, being timid and inexperienced, Amily was from the Seiran Valley where many Makai tools are developed. She met Jinga while delivering a Spirit Beast pelt alongside her fellow Makai Priestesses, having a bad first impression of before getting to know him better and developed feelings for him. Amily later married Jinga after completing her training and traveled with him alongside their son. But when their son was sacrificed by villagers who were terrorized by a Horror that she and Jinga killed for their sake, a grieving Amily aided her husband in slaughtering the villagers. The two were stopped by the Makai Priest Moyuru who sacrificed himself to save Gald and Haruna, some of the few survivors. After surviving Moyuru's suicidal attempt to kill her and Jinga, the two later happened to wonder into an Inga gate in the form of a gravestone ring in the forest at night, and the Inga within them transformed them into their current Horror incarnations.
Being a former Makai Priestess and armed with a Madō brush, arrogant and seductive in her current state, Amily has extensive knowledge of magical spells and uses blue butterfly constructs as her spies, eating them to acquire their knowledge, while also recruiting Horrors to serve Jinga's purposes. Amily also possesses the Demon Mirror, a relic that allows its user to increase another's power. Amily helps Jinga in his plan to revive Radan, even revealing to Ryuga and Rian that she and her husband are Horrors when the pair are sent to reseal Radan. While captured by Ryuga's group, Amily feigns regaining her remorseful humanity to trick Ryuga into entering the Demon Mirror and then escaping Gald and Daigo's custody to meet back up with Jinga.
When Jinga transfers his spiritual essence into Rian, Amily sends her blue butterfly constructs to find him. She eventually discovers his location and Amily interferes in Ryuga, Daigo, and Ryume's ceremony of banishing Jinga from Rian's body. Amily takes Rian and kisses her, absorbing Jinga's spiritual essence into her own body so he can restore himself before reconstituting her body later. Once Radan is activated, Amily, in a blue dress composed of her butterfly familiars, offers herself to become the castle's moon-like power source. But after Rian mortally wounds her, Amily ends up being killed by Jinga who has turned Rian into the new power source.
In Garo: Kami no Kiba, an amnesiac Jinga transforms the deceased Banbi into a puppet replica of Amily which Rian managed to kill. After Jinga is slain and returned to the Demon World, Amily meets him and is witness to him attempting to defeat the awakened Messiah that ended with his demise. Following Jinga's reincarnation into Jinga Mikage, Amily infiltrated the Mikage family as Madō Ring Alva (魔導輪アルヴァ, Madōrin Aruva) and help influence events for her beloved to resurrect himself during the events of Kami no Kiba: Jinga. Amily eventually reveals herself and holds Rozan off long enough for Jinga to be fully restored.
Amily is portrayed by Miyavi Matsunoi (松野井 雅, Matsunoi Miyabi), also voicing Alva.


== Makai Retsuden ==
Gagal (ガガル, Gagaru): A Horror residing the Bon Jackpot before he is killed by Wataru, portrayed by Ippei Saitō (斉藤 一平, Saitō Ippei).
Gegem (ゲゲム, Gegemu): A Horror residing the Bon Jackpot before he is killed by Wataru, portrayed by Kouji Tsujimoto (辻本 耕志, Tsujimoto Kōji).
Babaro (ババロ): A Horror residing the Bon Jackpot before he is killed by Wataru, portrayed by Namihei Koshige (こしげ なみへい, Koshige Namihei).
Bartender: A Horror residing the Bon Jackpot before he is killed by Wataru after serving him a drink on request, portrayed by Sennin Takemori (竹森 千人, Takemori Sennin).
Jan (ジャン): A Horror from the neighboring First Fort that was attacked by Wataru, telling a story of how the strongest Horrors of his group were easily killed off. Jan is portrayed by Oolongta Yoshida (吉田 ウーロン太, Yoshida Ūronta), with Quickdraw Kane (早撃ちのケーン, Hayauchi no Kēn) portrayed by Mizuho Yoshida, Hustler Bean (ハスラーのビーン, Hasurā no Bīn) portrayed by Takahiro Tsuboya (坪谷 隆寛, Tsuboya Takahiro), Dancer Jean (ダンスのジーン, Dansu no Jīn) portrayed by Ayako Hino (日野 綾子, Hino Ayako), and First Fort's Bartender (第一砦のバーテン, Daiichi Toride no Bāten) portrayed by Yūki Nakamura (中村 裕樹, Nakamura Yūki).
Hoodlum: A thug during Ryuga's time as Garo who harassed Rian before she drove him and his gang off when they beating up a young man attempting to protect her. The hoodlum ended up becoming a Horror's host and killed by Rian soon after. Portrayed by Kazunari Matsufuji (松藤 和成, Matsufuji Kazunari).
Miele (ミエーレ, Miēre): A wasp-like Horror from Ryuga's time as Garo who fought him on a sky.
Camphanto (カムファント, Kamufanto): A Horror from Ryuga's time as Garo who possessed the body of a woman, able to assume the form whoever she had devoured. After taking the form of an electric worker to infiltrate Haruna's high school, Camphanto devours Ibuki, the president of astronomy club, and attempts to devour the club members. However, Camphanto's attempt is prevented by Daigo before the Makai Knight equips the Giga armor and slays the Horror. The possessed woman is portrayed by LUY, while the electrical worker and Ibuki are portrayed by Motokuni Nakagawa (中川 素州, Nakagawa Motokuni) and Kohki Osamura (長村 航希, Osamura Kōki) respectively.
Antaeus (アンタイオス, Antaiosu): A bat-like Horror from Raiga's time as Garo who possesses the body of a young nymphomanic Yukino (ユキノ), targeting men she has a crush. Antaeus targets a dancer named Hikaru before Daichi managed to enable the human's escape at cost to his wellbeing before Raiga arrived and slays the Horror. Yukino is portrayed by Kaede Aono (青野 楓, Aono Kaede).
Binos (バイノス, Bainosu): A rhinoceros-like large Horror who possessed the body of Kazuma (カズマ), a retired Makai Knight-to-be who was Tsubasa's friend, moving into the city where is ends up becoming a Horror. Forced to fight Tsubasa and Jabi, Kazuma assumes his true form before Tsubasa slays him. Kazuma is portrayed by Yoshio Kojima (小島 よしお, Kojima Yoshio).


== Zarugin ==
Zarugin (ザルギン) is a powerful minotaur-like Horror from Gouki's time, the antagonist of Garo: Ashura. Based from his fortress in the Northern Valley, Zarugin and his familiars ravage the countryside before Gouki confronts them yet is overpowered by Zarugin. It was only with the aid of his new friends that Gouki gained the power to slay Zarugin.
Zarugin is portrayed by Togi Makabe (真壁 刀義, Makabe Tōgi).


== Zero: Dragon Blood ==
Rabiria (ラビリア): A rabbit-based Horror, drawing guests to be devoured by the Horrors dwelling in one of the hotel suites after possessing the body of Kugano (クガノ), a hotel front desk clerk. He later draws Alice to be eaten by the Horrors as well, but she is rescued by Rei, who disposes of all the Horrors in the hotel to rescue her before slaying him. Kugano is portrayed by Moro Morooka (モロ師岡).
Zagira (ザギーラ, Zagīra): A plant-based Horror that emerged from a table lamp to possess the body of Lily (リリイ, Ririi), a dancer. Lily is portrayed by Nori Sato (佐藤 乃莉, Satō Nori).
Kurugeru (クルーゲル, Kurūgeru): A gun-based Horror that emerged from a bullet to possess the body of Jun (ジュン), a gang member. Jun is portrayed by Atsushi Arai (荒井 敦史, Arai Atsushi), while a young Jun is portrayed by Fūka Matsunaga (松永 風夏, Matsunaga Fūka).
Raira (ライラ): A gigantic dog/bear-faced centipede-based Horror that possessed the body of an unnamed young woman. Living at a wishing bell, she grants people visions of their greatest desires before devouring them. In human form, she can stretch her body out like a snake, wrapping up her victims. The possessed woman is portrayed by Misaki Momose (桃瀬 美咲, Momose Misaki).
Masukarada (マスカラーダ, Masukarāda): A termite-based Horror that possessed the body of Towako (トワコ). She gets her victims (young men) by firstly seducing them, then manifesting termites from her body to eat them alive. Towako is portrayed by Akari Hoshino (星野 あかり, Hoshino Akari).


== Kami no Kiba ==


=== Rinza ===
Rinza (リンザ) is a centauress-like Horror who gathers information on the Fang of God from a freelance professor researching the Makai community and its lore to summon Messiah into the world. She can controls a horde of Horror zombies as minions, disguise herself as other humans, and fire explosive spark bolts produced s by scraping the heels of her high-heels on rough surfaces. She deceives Banbi into aiding her by promising to revive her love Judo Tenma, claiming to help her steal Makai Knight armors in order to feed on the powerless Makai Knights later. When Banbi initiates her resurrection ritual, Rinza swaps out a strain of Judo's hair for that of Jinga's, after deeming Judo too weak to be used as a sacrificial offering to activate the Fang of God. While claiming to have summoned him to usher a new age of Horrors and swearing her loyalty, Jinga sees through Rinza's ruse and unceremoniously slays her later when she turns on him.
Rinza is portrayed by Sayaka Sasaki (佐咲 紗花, Sasaki Sayaka), a singer who did several songs for the Garo animation franchise.


=== Boel ===
Boel (ボエル, Boeru) is a dimwitted Horror accompanying Rinza, serving as her second in command. His true Horror form is that of a large bullish creature, and is resistant to physical attacks both in his human form and his Horror form. He is slain by Jinga in order to build the Fang of God and initiate the ritual.
Boel is portrayed by Cookie (くっきー, Kukkī).


=== Hederick ===
Hederick (ヘデリック, Hederikku) is a Horror under Rinza that possesses the body of a hoodlum. Hederick is slain by Aguri.
The hoodlum is portrayed by Yusuke Yamaguchi (山口 侑佑, Yamaguchi Yūsuke).


=== Jagi ===
Jagi (ジャギ) is a bat-like Horror under Rinza that possesses the body of a gang leader. Jagi is slain by Takeru.
The gang leader is portrayed by Ichizou (一三, Ichizō).


== Kami no Kiba: Jinga ==
Nonrosso (ノンロッソ): A Horror targeting humans who are powerless yet with a strong will to protect their children, willing to go extreme lengths, such as murder, to keep their children safe. It emerged from a family photo to possess the body of Rena (玲奈), a truck driver, who was about to be killed by her husband and his mistress, to commit insurance fraud. Nonrosso acts only on Rena's maternal instincts, feeding on men she prostitutes herself to in order keep Rena's children from starving, and is otherwise seemingly benign. This created a conflict with Jinga due to comparing Nonrosso to his past trauma before recomposing himself and slaying her. Rena is portrayed by Masako Umemiya (梅宮 万紗子, Umemiya Masako).
Cadena (カデーナ, Kadēna): A Horror that is seemingly indestructible against Soul Metal blades and is symbiotic by nature, possessing the body of Kanae (佳菜恵), a bullied high school girl, after emerging from the chains used to tie her up in her school's gym. Cadena gives Kanae the power to take revenge on her bullies before Jinga suppressed the Horror with Kanae's body. Before Jinga realized he was the cause of an unexpected feat and assuming that he exorcized the Horror, it was assumed that the peculiar phenomenon was attributed to Cadena. Kanae is portrayed by Riko Nagai (永井 理子, Nagai Riko).
Fons (フォーンス, Fōnsu): A Horror taking the form of a large mirror in an abandoned building. Instead of possessing a host like most others, it instead acts as an Inga gate for other Horrors to emerge, by petrifying whoever stands in front of it and amplify the victim's Inga by bringing up their personal traumas and insecurities. Fons' body is destroyed by Jinga shortly after asserting his righteousness in his actions of cutting down his father, but not before turning Toma into a Horror's host.
Ishida (石田): Initially a mild-mannered, kind-hearted pro wrestler before he unknowingly caused the death of his wife and son by helping a petty criminal, he ended up becoming a Horror after losing his faith in humanity and made a living in the underground fighting ring where he gain fame as a masked wrestler wearing a mask his son made for him. Ishida would use his Horror powers to hunt and feed on the scum of society, his sense of honor keeping him from attacking innocents. When Ishida tried to kill a young fighter named Fox, a fame seeker who tried to ruin his career before their upcoming match, Jinga manages to suppress his Horror. This restores Ishida to his original self as he spares Fox and takes him under his wing as an apprentice. Ishida is portrayed by Kazuyuki Fujita (藤田 和之, Fujita Kazuyuki).
Melee (メイレー, Meirē): A Horror that possesses the body of Rika (梨花) after emerging from her mother's wristwatch. Rika is portrayed by Hazuki Shimizu (清水 葉月, Shimizu Hazuki).
Rebiju (レビジュ): A Horror that possesses the body of Hitoshi (ヒトシ), a thief. Hitoshi is portrayed by Haruki Takano (高野 春樹, Takano Haruki).
Roska (ロスカ, Rosuka): A Horror that possesses the body of Okajima (岡島). Okajima is portrayed by Ryujin Suzuki (鈴木 隆仁, Suzuki Ryūjin).


== Gekkou no Tabibito ==
Ruto (ルト): A scorpion-like Horror that possesses the body of a woman and targets women. Ruto is slain by Raiga. The possessed woman is portrayed by Yuria Eda (江田 友莉亜, Eda Yuria).


== Hagane o Tsugu Mono ==
Chaurus (シャウラス, Shaurasu): A Horror that inhabits a digital signage display and possesses the body of Miwako (美和子), a model. Chaurus is slain by Ryuga. Miwako is portrayed by Mai Nambu (南部 麻衣, Nanbu Mai).
Regrege (レグレージ, Regurēji): A Horror that possesses the body of Tsutomu Murashige (村重 勉, Murashige Tsutomu), a constructor. Regrege is slain by Souma. Tsutomu Murashige is portrayed by Jouji Shibue (渋江 譲二, Shibue Jōji).
Lucargol (ルカルゴル, Rukarugoru): A Horror that possesses the body of Takeo Taniguchi (谷口 武夫, Taniguchi Takeo), a victim of extortion. Lucargol is slain by Ryuga. Takeo Taniguchi is portrayed by Shinya Yamamura (山村 真也, Yamamura Shin'ya).
Kazamatsuri (風祭): A fraud company president who became the host of a Horror emerging from a telephone. He is slain by Ryuga. Portrayed by Toshiki Kashu (賀集 利樹, Kashū Toshiki).
Gaera (ガエラ): A Horror that possesses the body of Naomi (ナオミ), a nightclub waitress. Gaera is slain by Ryuga. Naomi is portrayed by Miki Nishino (西野 未姫, Nishino Miki).
Zygarus (ジガルス, Jigarusu): A Horror slain by Godou.


== Taiga ==
Candolier (キャンドリア, Kyandoria): A Flame Beast Horror (炎獣ホラー, Enjū Horā) that possesses the body of an angler. Candolier is slain by Taiga. The angler is portrayed by Katsuhiro Higo (肥後 克広, Higo Katsuhiro).
Gido (ギド) and Abi (アビ): Horrors that serve as Jadou's minions and assume the form of twin brothers. Portrayed by Yuhi Otsu (大津 夕陽, Ōtsu Yūhi) and Asahi Otsu (大津 朝陽, Ōtsu Asahi).


=== Jadou ===
Jadou (蛇道, Jadō) is a Snake Venom Horror (蛇毒ホラー, Jadoku Horā) who was originally an elderly female Makai Guide serving the small shrine of the Sacred Beasts. He can absorb the memories and abilities of the humans he ate and transform his Horror form into the dragon-like Jadouryu (蛇道龍, Jadōryū). He seeks to eat the Sacred Beast Kirin and the other four Sacred Beasts to gain their powers.
Jadou is portrayed by Toshiki Seto (瀬戸 利樹, Seto Toshiki).


== Higashi no Kairou ==
Zagdam (ザグダム, Zagudamu): A Waste Horror (廃棄物ホラー, Haikibutsu Horā). Zagdam is slain by Ryuga.
Scorgan (スコルガン, Sukorugan): A Sand Spear Horror (砂槍ホラー, Sunayari Horā). Scorgan is slain by Ryuga.


=== Garzas ===
Garzas (ガルザス, Garuzasu) is a Horror known as the King of Sand (砂の王, Suna no Ō). He can turn areas into deserts and create and manipulate Horrors and an army of Sand Warriors (サンドウォーリアーズ, Sando Wōriāzu). He is slain by Ryuga.
Garzas is voiced by Kenji Nomura (乃村 健次, Nomura Kenji).


=== Aquas ===
Aquas (アクアス, Akuasu) is a Horror that does not possess humans but manipulates them with tainted water. She is slain by Ryuga.
Aquas is voiced by Maaya Sakamoto (坂本 真綾, Sakamoto Maaya).


== Notes ==


== See also ==

The Federal University Dutse (FUD), is one of the nine universities created by the Federal Government of Nigeria in 2011.
FUD offers both undergraduate and postgraduate programs (Pgde.Msc. as well as PhD.)
The Federal University, Dutse (FUD) held its first convocation ceremony on January 16, 2016.
Delivering his speech at the convocation ceremony the Pioneer Vice Chancellor of the University Professor Jibrilla Dahiru Aminu (OFR) revealed that the university has scored over 80 percent marks from the assessment made by National Council of University on Facilities and Academic Effectiveness.
Delivering his speech at the convocation ceremony the Pioneer Vice Chancellor of the University, Professor Jibrilla Dahiru Aminu (OFR) revealed that the university has scored over 80 percent marks from the assessment made by National Council of University on facilities and academic effectiveness.
The university's campus is located in the ancient town of Dutse, the capital of Jigawa State.  FUD seeks to attract a diverse cast of lecturers and students, support research and teaching on local, national and global issues and create academic relationships with many universities and higher education institutions in Nigeria and across the world.  FUD is offering a broad range of degree programs in Humanities, Natural and the Social Sciences,  Agricultural Science and also in Medicine. Faculties in offerings are Faculty of law, faculty of engineering and faculty of management science to take up this year.
From the university's pioneer crop of 205 students enrolled in four academic programmes in three faculties had grown to about 3,200 students in the university's fifth academic year of operation, while there are 1,332 academic
and non-teaching staff. The number courses in the university now
stand at 17.


== College of Medicine and Allied Medical Sciences ==
The College of Medicine and Allied Medical Sciences is the health-professional education arm of Federal University Dutse. The college is responsible for undergraduate medical education, clinical training, and biomedical research, including the Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) programme and allied health sciences.
The college trains medical students through a structured progression from basic medical sciences to full clinical practice and operates in affiliation with a federal teaching hospital for hands-on clinical instruction.


=== Organisation ===
The College of Medicine and Allied Medical Sciences is organised into three faculties:

Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences
Faculty of Basic Clinical Sciences
Faculty of Clinical Sciences
The Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences provides foundational biomedical education, while the Faculties of Basic Clinical Sciences and Clinical Sciences are directly involved in the training of medical students and clinical practice.


=== Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences ===
The Faculty of Basic Medical Sciences provides foundational instruction in human structure, function, and public health. It supports the early phases of medical education and allied health programmes.
Departments in the faculty include:

Department of Human Anatomy
Department of Human Physiology
Department of Medical Biochemistry
Department of Nursing Sciences
Department of Environmental Health
Department of Public Health
The faculty emphasizes laboratory-based learning and prepares students for subsequent clinical training.


=== Faculty of Basic Clinical Sciences ===
The Faculty of Basic Clinical Sciences serves as a bridge between the basic medical sciences and full clinical practice. It introduces medical students to disease mechanisms, diagnostics, and therapeutic principles prior to clinical rotations.
Departments in the faculty include:

Department of Chemical Pathology
Department of Haematology
Department of Histopathology
Department of Medical Microbiology and Parasitology
Department of Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics


=== Faculty of Clinical Sciences ===
The Faculty of Clinical Sciences delivers advanced clinical training and patient-centered education. Medical students undertake supervised clinical postings and rotations during the later stages of the MBBS programme.
Departments in the faculty include:

Department of Community Medicine
Department of Internal Medicine
Department of Surgery
Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology
Department of Paediatrics


=== Teaching Hospital ===
Clinical training for students of the College of Medicine and Allied Medical Sciences is conducted primarily at the Rasheed Shekoni Federal University Teaching Hospital, Dutse. The hospital was taken over by the Federal Government of Nigeria and designated as a teaching hospital to support the medical programmes of Federal University Dutse.
The teaching hospital provides clinical services across major medical and surgical specialties and serves as the main centre for bedside teaching, clinical rotations, and residency training.


=== Research and Community Service ===
The college engages in biomedical, clinical, and public health research and participates in community-based health programmes, rural clinical postings, and public health outreach initiatives as part of its medical training curriculum.


== University Library ==
The main Library is located at the central campus with seven divisions that is headed by a University Librarian.  Each division has information resources that meet the information needs of the academic community. these sections are

Collection Development division is concerned with acquisition of information resources i n the library.
Technical services division is concerned with processing of information resource through classification, cataloguing, indexing and abstracting.
Readers service Division is the public relation units that deal with staff and students registration and controlled the uses of library materials.
Education and information division take care of General Studies course of library instructions.
Serial Management division acquires scientific and other materials that are published time to time like newspapers, magazines, journals etc.


== List of academic programmes ==


=== College of Medicine and Allied Medical Sciences, Federal University Dutse ===
Federal University Dutse in its fifth academic calendar have succeeded in establishing College of  Medicine and
Allied Medical Sciences. The faculty runs the following programs:

Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery
Human Anatomy
Human Physiology
Nursing science
Public Health
Environmental Health Science
Nursing sciences


=== Faculty of Agriculture ===
FUD currently run six academic programmes in the Faculty of Agriculture

Department of Agricultural Economics & Extension
Department of Animal Science
Department of Crop Science
Department of Fisheries and Aquaculture
Department of Forestry and Wildlife
Department of Soil Science


=== Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences ===
FUD currently run four academic programmes in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences

Department of Economics
Department of  Linguistics English Language
Department of Linguistics Arabic
Department of Political Science
Department of Criminology And Security Studies


=== Faculty of Management Sciences ===
FUD currently run five academic programmes in the Faculty of Management Sciences

Department of Accounting
Department of Actuarial Science
Department of Banking and Finance
Department of
Department of insurance
Department of Taxation


=== Faculty Of life Science ===
FUD currently run six academic programmes in the Faculty of life Sciences including :

Department of Physics
Department of Chemistry
Department of Environmental Management & Toxicology
Department of Mathematics
Department of Biological Sciences
Department of Biochemistry
Department of Microbiology & Biotechnology


=== Faculty of physical science ===
Department of chemistry
Department of Physics
Department of mathematics
Department of environmental management and taxicology
Department of industrial chemistry
Department of industrial mathematics


=== Faculty of Computing ===
Department of Software Engineering
Department of Computer Science
Department of Cyber Security
Department of Information Technology


=== Faculty of Education ===
Department of Library and information science
Department of primary education
Department of Islamic studies


=== School of Postgraduate Studies Federal University Dutse ===
The school of postgraduate was established in 2014/2015 and it runs 10 post graduate Studies. In addition to Msc, Federal University Dutse now offers PhD degree on Biotechnology and Microbiology. Federal University Dutse focuses on building relations with other universities locally and internationally. The university has entered an agreement with North Dakota State University.


== Federal University Dutse News ==
FUD ranks No.1 University in Northwest -NUC
SCImago ranks FUD No.1 in Mathematics in Africa


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== See also ==
List of universities in Nigeria
Education in Nigeria


== External links ==
Official website
FUD Contact Email

Convergence: The International Journal of Research into New Media Technologies is a Q1-ranked (ranking by Scimago) quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the fields of communications and media. The current editors are Sarah Aitkinson (King's College London) and Helen Kennedy (University of Nottingham). It was founded in 1995 by Julia Knight and Alexis Weedon (University of Bedfordshire) who edited volumes 1-23. The journal set the agenda for research the social and cultural implications of the new media technologies. First published by John Libbey Media, and then The University of Luton Press, it is now published by SAGE Publications.
It has published research by Amy Bruckman, danah boyd, Larissa Hjorth, Stine Lomborg, Mette Mortensen, Simone Murray, Kate Pullinger, T.L. Taylor, M Whiteman, Andre Caron, Jay Bolter, Henry Jenkins, Annette Markham, Mark Deuze, amongst others.


== Abstracting and indexing ==
The journal is abstracted and indexed in:

British Education Index
Compendex
Film and Television Literature Index
Scopus
Zetoc
Scopus
Social Sciences Citation Index


== External links ==
Official website

The land of Odisha or former Kalinga has undergone several changes in terms of its boundaries since ancient ages. It was also known by different names like Odra Desha, Kalinga, Hirakhanda, Mahakantara or Utkala in different eras. Unlike other ancient kingdoms in India, Odisha for most part of the History remained a stable and major power till medieval era due to widespread martial culture and prosperity brought by successive native ruling dynasties.
The year 1568 is considered a turning point in the history of Odisha. In 1568, Kalapahad invaded the state. This, aided by internal conflicts, led to a steady downfall of the state from which it did not recover.


== Ancient period ==


=== Kalinga kingdom (c. 1100–261 BCE) ===

According to political scientist Sudama Misra, the Kalinga janapada originally comprised the area covered by the Puri and Ganjam districts.


==== Kalinga dynasty (I) (c. 1100–700 BCE) ====

According to Mahabharata and some Puranas, the prince 'Kalinga' founded the Kalinga kingdom, in the current day region of coastal Odisha, including the North Sircars.
The Mahabharata also mentions one 'Srutayudha' as the king of the Kalinga kingdom, who joined the Kaurava camp. In the Buddhist text, Mahagovinda Suttanta, Kalinga and its ruler, 'Sattabhu', have been mentioned.

Known rulers are-
King Kalinga, (founder of Kalinga kingdom)
King Odra, (founder of Odra kingdom)
Srutayudha
Srutayush
Manimat
Chitrangada
Subahu
Virasena
Sudatta
Nalikira
Yavanaraj
Dantavakkha or Dantavakhra (c. 9th century BCE)
Avakinnayo Karakandu (c. late 9th to early 8th century BCE)
Vasupala (c. 8th century BCE)


==== Kalinga dynasty (II) (c. 700–350 BCE) ====
This dynasty is mentioned in Chullakalinga Jataka and Kalingabodhi Jataka. The last ruler of the first Kalinga dynasty is said to have broken away from the Danda kingdom along with the kings of Asmaka and Vidarbha as its feudal states, and established rule of second Kalinga dynasty.

Known rulers are

Dandaki
Mahakalinga
Chullakalinga
Kalinga II (c. 7th – 6th century BCE)
Other or late Kalinga rulers according to Dāṭhavaṃsa are

This was probably another dynasty or late rulers of Second Kalinga dynasty, which is mentioned in Dāṭhavaṃsa.

Known rulers are

Brahmadatta (c. 6th – 5th century BCE)
Sattabhu
Kasiraja
Sunanda
Guhasiva


==== Suryavamsha of Kalinga (c. 350–261 BCE) ====
Known rulers are-
Brahmaadittiya (c. 4th century BCE)
His son, prince 'Soorudasaruna-Adeettiya' (sudarshanāditya) was exiled and as per Maldivian history, established the first kingdom the Kingdom of Dheeva Maari and laid the foundation of the Adeetta dynasty.

Unknown rulers
Unknown (till 261 BCE), ruler of Kalinga at time of Mauryan annexation of Kalinga.
After Kalinga War (261 BCE), Kalinga kingdom became a part of Mauryan Empire, after which Kalinga kingdom was succeeded by Mahameghavahana Empire between 230–190 BCE which ruled till 350 CE.


=== Kalinga under Magadha Empire (c. 345–225 BCE) ===


==== Under Nanda Empire (c. 345–322 BCE) ====

Kalinga was believed to be briefly annexed by Mahapadma Nanda.

Mahapadma Nanda (380–340 BCE)
Pandhuka
Panghupati
Bhutapala
Rashtrapala
Govishanaka
Dashasidkhaka
Kaivarta
Mahendra
Dhana Nanda (322–321 BCE)
When Chandragupta Maurya rebelled against the Nandas, Kalingas broke away from the empire of Magadha.


==== Under Maurya Empire (c. 261–225 BCE) ====

Ashoka invaded Kalinga in 261 BCE. Kalinga broke away from the Mauryan empire during the rule of Dasharatha.

Ashoka (274–232 BCE)
Dasharatha Maurya (232–224 BCE)


=== Mahameghavahana Empire (c. 225 BCE – 350 CE) ===

Mahamegha Vahana was the founder of the Kalingan Chedi or Cheti dynasty. The names of Sobhanaraja, Chandraja, Ksemaraja also appear in context. But, Kharavela is the most well known among them. The exact relation between Mahamegha Vahana and Kharavela is not known.

Vasu
Mahamegha Vahana
Sobhanaraja
Chandraja
Ksemaraja
Vakradeva (or) Virdhharaja
Kharavela (c. 193 BCE–155 BCE)
Kudepasiri Vakradeva ll
Vaduka
Galaveya
It is not known that, if Vakadeva was a successor or predecessor of Kharavela. From the inscriptions and coins discovered at Guntupalli and Velpuru, Andhra Pradesh, we know of a series of rulers with the suffix Sada who were possibly distant successors of Kharavela.

Mana-Sada
Siri-Sada
Maha-Sada
Sivamaka-Sada
Asaka-Sada


=== Murunda dynasty (150–250 CE) ===

Gana (c. 2nd cen CE)
Dhamadamadhara (Dharmatamadharasya) (c. 3rd century CE)


=== Satavahana Empire (ca. 60–199 CE) ===

Source:
Gautamiputra Satakarni is known to have invaded Kalinga during his reign. The Nashik prashasti inscription of Gautamiputra's mother during the reign of Vasisthiputra Pulumavi, located in the Nasik Caves, states that his orders were obeyed by the circle of all kings and calls him the lord of mount Mahendra among a list of other mountains.

Gautamiputra Sri Satakarni (c. 60–84 CE)
Vasisthiputra Sri Pulumavi (c. 84–119 CE)
Vasisthiputra Sri Satakarni (c. 119–148 CE)
Vasisthiputra Sivasri Pulumavi (c. 148–156 CE)
Vasisthiputra Sriskanda Satakarni (c. 156–170 CE)
Gautamiputra Sriyajña Satakarni (c. 171–199 CE)


== Pre-classical period ==


=== Naga dynasty of Vindhyatabi (225–360) ===

An inscription dating from 3rd to 4th century found in Asanpat village in Keonjhar revealed the existence of this dynasty. 

Manabhanja (225–261)
Satrubhanja (261–340)
Disabhanja (340–360)


=== Parvatadvarka dynasty (360–400) ===

During the same period as the Nalas, the region around modern-day Kalahandi was ruled by them. Not much is known about them.

Sobhanaraja
Tustikara


=== Kings mentioned in Raghuvamsha of Kalidasa ===

Hemangada


=== Gupta Empire (335–550) ===

Samudragupta invaded Kalinga during his reign in c.350. By c.571, most of Kalinga had broken away from the Gupta empire.

Samudragupta (335–380 CE)
Ramagupta (380)
Chandragupta II (380–415 CE)
Kumaragupta I (415–455 CE)
Skandagupta (455–467 CE)
Purugupta (467–473 CE)
Kumaragupta II (473–476)
Budhagupta (476–495)
Kumaragupta III (495–500)
Vishnugupta (500–520)
Vainyagupta (520–540)
Bhanugupta (540–550 CE)


=== Nala dynasty (400–740) ===

For some time in 4th century, the southern Odisha region around modern-day Koraput, Rayagada, Malkangiri and undivided Bastar, was ruled by the Nalas.

Vrishadhvaja (400–420 CE)
Varaharaja (420–440 CE)
Bhavadattavarman or Bhavadattaraja (441–446 CE)
Arthapatiraja (446–478)
Skandavarman (480–515 CE)
Stambha (515–550 CE)
Sri-Nandanaraja (550–585 CE)
Prithviraja (585–625 CE)
Viruparaja (625–660 CE)
Vilasatunga (660–700 CE)
Prthivivyaghra (700–740 CE)


=== Rajarsitulyakula (4th–6th century CE) ===

The later half of the 4th century, this dynasty was established in the South Kosala region.

Maharaja Sura
Maharaja Dayita I (or Dayitavarman I)
Maharaja Bhimasena I
Maharaja Dayitavarman II
Maharaja Bhimasena II (c. 501 or 601–?)


=== Sharabhapuriya dynasty (475–590) ===

Not much is known about this dynasty. Everything known about them, comes from the inscriptions on copper plates and coins. They may or may not have also been known as the Amararyakula dynasty. This dynasty is supposed to have started by one Sarabha, who may have been a feudal chief under the Guptas. They ruled over the modern-day region of Raipur, Bilaspur and Kalahandi.

Sharabha (Śarabha), c. 475–500 CE
Narendra, c. 500–525 CE
Prasanna, c. 525–550 CE
Jayarāja, c. 550–560 CE
Sudevarāja, c 560–570 CE
Manamatra alias Durgarāja, c. 570–580 CE
Sudevarāja, c. 570–580 CE
Pravarāja, c. 580–590 CE


=== Mathara dynasty (4th–5th century CE) ===

The Mathara dynasty ruled during the 4th and the 5th centuries. The Mathara rulers include:

Shakti-varman (Śaktivarman)
Prabhanjana-varman (Prabhañjanavarman)
Ananta-shakti-varman (Anantaśaktivarman)


=== Vishnukundina dynasty (420–555) ===

Anantasaktivarman lost southern part of his kingdom to Madhava Varma II and the Matharas never recovered it.

Madhava Varma I (420–455 CE)
Indra Varma (455–461)
Madhava Verma II (461–508 CE)
Vikramendra Varma I (508–528)
Indra Bhattaraka Varma (528–555 CE)
Indra Bhattaraka Varma possibly lost his Kalinga holdings to one Adiraja Indra, who possibly was Indravarma I of East Ganga Dynasty.


=== Vigraha dynasty (575–630) ===
They ruled the region called South Toshali or Kalinga-rashtra, around modern-day Puri and Ganjam, during second half of 6th century.

Prithivi Vigraha (575–600 CE)
Loka Vigraha (c. 600–630 CE)


=== Mudgalas dynasty (580 CE–?) ===
They ruled the region of North Toshali, the river Mahanadi served as the border between North and South Toshali. Around 599-600 CE, they invaded South Toshali and by 604 CE the Vigrahas claim to suzerainty over Toshali ended.

Sambhuyasa (c. 580 CE–?)
Copper plate grants have been found of a feudatory of Sambhuyasa named Bhanudatta in Olasingh Village, Khordha and Balasore. The absence of the name of his overlord in his grants during his 5th regnal year may indicate that Sambhuyasa died without an heir and his kingdom maybe in a state of chaos. Bhanudatta might have enjoyed a short independent rule in the region around Soro, Balasore. Somadatta, presumably of the same family as Bhanudatta from the Balasore region, issued a grant from the visaya of Sarephahara (now identified with the region around Soro, Balasore) which was included in the Odra-visaya or Ordra-desa. Odra-visaya is taken to be another name for the entire Toshali kingdom under Sambhuyasa.


=== Durjaya dynasty (620–680) ===
In mid-6th century CE, a chief, Ranadurjaya, established himself in South Kalinga. Prithivimaharaja probably consolidated his kingdom by conquering parts of the Toshali kingdom.

Ranadurjaya
Prithivimaharaja


== Post-classical period ==


=== Gauda Kingdom ===
Shashanka invaded and possibly occupied North Toshali (or Utkala including modern day Mayurbhanj, Balasore, Cuttack, Keonjhar and Dhenkanal) and South Toshali (or Kalinga including Cuttack, Puri and Ganjam) from the Mudgalas. A copper plate grant from Somadatta's 19th regnal year calls him the ruler of Utkala and Dandabhukti(Dantan in South-Western Midnapore) and he assumes the subordinate royal title of samanta-maharaja under Shashanka.
Shashanka seemed to have established another fief called Kongoda under a new ruling family called Shailodbhava. The Ganjam grant of Madhavaraja II was issued on the occasion of solar eclipse. Lorenz Franz Kielhorn worked out the two nearest possible dates which could have corroborated with the Gupta year mentioned in this record, the two solar eclipses that could have been visible from Ganjam district being on 4 November 617 CE and 2 September 620 CE. Evidently the possible date of the grant is the latter one. Immediately after 620 CE, Madhavaraja II might have assumed independence from Shashanka. After this Shashanka was no more in the political arena of Odisha when Madhavaraja II issued his Khordha grant which describes him as "lord of the whole of Kalinga".

Shashanka (c. ?–620 CE)


=== Shailodbhava dynasty ===

They ruled from the region ranging from coastal Odisha to Mahanadi and to Mahendragiri in Paralakhemundi. This region was called the Kongoda mandala. Sailobhava, the founder of dynasty, is said to have been born of a rock, hence the name Shailodbhava. Sailobhava was the adopted son of one Pulindasena, who was possibly a chieftain. They were possibly the subordinates of Shashanka until Madhavaraja II.

Pulindasena (?)
Sailobhava (?)
Dharmaraja I (or Ranabhita)
Madhavaraja I (or Sainyabita I)
Ayasobhita I (or Chharamparaja)
Madhavaraja II (or Madhavavarman) (? – 665 CE)
Madhyamaraja I (or Ayasobhita II) (665 CE – ?)
Dharmaraja II
As the feudatory of Shashanka, Madhavaraja I had the title of Maharaja Mahasamanta. In the second copper plate chatter issued by Madhavaraja II from Kongoda, he is endowed with the title of Sakala-Kalingadhipati(Lord of the whole of Kalinga). Based on Chinese traveler Xuanzang's account it is believed that the Pushyabhuti emperor Harshavardhana may have invaded Utkala and Kongoda. But his victories if any may have been formal as Madhavaraja II did not refer to any overlordship in his grants after gaining independence from Shashanka.


=== Bhaumakara dynasty ===

The Bhauma or Bhauma-Kara Dynasty lasted from c. 736 CE to c. 940 CE. They mostly controlled the coastal areas of Kalinga. But by c.850 CE, they controlled most of modern Odisha. The later part of their reign was disturbed by rebellions from the Bhanja dynasty of the Sonepur and Boudh region.

Lakshmikaradeva (?)
Ksemankaradeva (736)
Sivakaradeva I (or Unmattasimha) (c. 756/786 –?)
Subhakaradeva I (c. 790 –?)
Sivakaradeva II (c. 809 –?)
Santikaradeva I (or Gayada I) (?)
Subhakaradeva II (c. 836 –?)
Subhakaradeva III (?–845)
Tribhuvana Mahadevi I (widow of Santikaradeva I) (c. 845 –?)
Santikaradeva II (?)
Subhakaradeva IV (or Kusumahara II) (c. 881 –?)
Sivakaradeva III (or Lalitahara) (c. 885 –?)
Tribhuvana Mahadevi II (or Prithivi Mahadevi, widow of Subhakara IV) (c. 894 –?)
Tribhuvana Mahadevi III (widow of Sivakara III) ?
Santikaradeva III (?)
Subhakara V (?)
Gauri Mahadevi (wife of Subhakara) (?)
Dandi Mahadevi (daughter of Gauri) (c. 916 or 923 – ?)
Vakula Mahadevi (stepmother of Dandi Mahadevi) (?)
Dharma Mahadevi (widow of Santikaradeva) (?)


=== The mandala states ===
Between the 8th and 11th centuries, Odisha was divided into mandalas which were feudal states ruled by chieftains. These chieftains swore allegiance to the Bhaumakaras. This period saw the rise of the Bhanja dynasty.


==== Bhanjas of Khinjali mandala ====


===== Early Bhanjas of Khinjali mandala =====
Silabhanja I (8th cen CE)
Satrubhanja (8th cen CE)
Ranabhanja (9th cen CE)
Netribhanja I (Nettabhanja I)
Digbhanja
Silabhanja II
Vidyadharbhanja
Nettabhanja II


===== Baudh Bhanjas of Khinjali mandala =====
Solanabhanja
Durjayabhanja
Kanakabhanja


===== Later Bhanjas of Khinjali mandala =====
Devabhaja
Rayabhanja I
Virabhanja
Rayabhanja II
Yasobhanja (12th cen CE)
Jayabhanja (12th cen CE)
Virabhanja II


==== Bhanjas of Khijjinga mandala ====
Virabhadra Adi-Bhanja (8th cen CE)
Kottabhanja
Digbhanja
Rajabanja
Ranabhanja (924 CE Bamanghaty inscription)
Narendrabhanja


==== Sulkis of Kodalaka Mandala ====
Kodalaka refers to the modern-day district of Dhenkanal.

Kanchanastambha who was succeeded by his son Kalahastambha.
Ranastambha (c.839-?)
Jayasthambha
Kulastambha II
Later, the mandala was divided into two parts, Yamagartta Mandala and Airavatta Mandala. The Bhaumas allowed the Tunga and the Nandodbhava families to rule over Yamagartta Mandala and Airavatta Mandala respectively.


==== Tungas of Yamagartta Mandala ====
The Mandala refers to the northern part of modern Dhenkanal district. Jayasimha was ruler of the mandala before the Tungas, he was not a member of the Tunga dynasty.

Jayasimha (c. 864 )
Khadaga Tunga
Vinita Tunga
Solana Tunga
Gayada Tunga
Apsara Deva.
It is not clearly known if Apsara Deva belonged to the Tunga family or not.


==== Nandodbhavas of Airavatta Mandala ====
This region extended over the territory comprising southern part of Dhenkanal district, some western portion of Cuttack district and almost the entire Nayagarh district.

Jayananda
Paramananda
Sivananda
Devananda I
Devananda II (c. 920–?)
Dhruvananda (c. 929–?)


==== Mayuras of Banei Mandala ====
This region roughly comprised the modern-day Banei sub-division and parts of Panposh subdivision of Sundergarh district. 

Udita Varsha
Teja Varsha
Udaya Varsha


==== Gangas of Svetaka Mandala ====
The capital of Svetaka known as Svetakapura has been identified with modern Chikiti.

Jayavarma Deva
Anantavarman
Gangaka Vilasa
Bhupendra Varman
Mahendravarman
Prithivarman
Indravarman I
Indravarman II
Samantavarman (c. 909–921?)


=== Somvanshi (Keshari) dynasty ===

The Soma or Kesari Dynasty originates in South Kosala, but by the reign of Yayati I, they controlled most of modern Orissa.

Janmejaya I (c. 882–992)
Yayati I (c. 922–955)
Bhimaratha (c. 955–80)
Dharmarstha (c. 980–1005)
Nahusa (c. 1005–1021)
Indranatha (c. 1021–1025)
Yayati II (c. 1025–1040)
Udyotakesari (c. 1040–1065)
Janmejaya II (c. 1065–1080)
Puranjaya (c. 1080–1090)
Karnadeva (c. 1090–1110)
Janmejaya, the predecessor of Karnadeva and the son of Janmejaya II, was not considered a ruler by his successors, as he captured the throne in a violent coup and soon-after lost it.


=== Chindaka Naga dynasty ===

The Chindaka Nagas are believed by certain historians to have arrived in the Chakrakota Mandala region (Bastar and Koraput) with the expedition of Rajendra Chola. The Telugu Chodas who invaded the region later, settled as their feudal rulers. This dynasty continued to rule the region till the thirteenth century with not many details known about their rulers excepting a few.

Nrupati Bhushana (1023– ?)
Jagadeka Bhushana or Dharavarsha
Madhurantaka
Somesvara
Kanhara


=== Eastern Ganga dynasty ===

Indravarman I is earliest known independent king of the dynasty. He is known from the Jirjingi copper plate grant.

Mittavarman, a feudal Eastern Ganga king under Vakataka rule  (c. ?–?)
Indravarman I (c. ?–537?)
Samantavarman (c. 537–562)
Hastivarman (c. 562–578)
Indravarman II (c. 578–589)
Danarnava (c. 589–652)
Indravarman III (c. 589–652)
Gunarnava (c. 652–682)
Devendravarman I (c. 652–682?)
Anantavarman III (c. 808–812?)
Rajendravarman II (c. 812–840?)
Devendravarman V (c. 885–895?)
Gunamaharnava I (c. 895–939?)
Vajrahasta II (or Anangabhimadeva I) (c. 895–939?)
Gundama – (c. 939–942)
Kamarnava I (c. 942–977)
Vinayaditya (c. 977–980)
Vajrahasta IV (c. 980–1015)
Kamarnava II (c. 1015 – 6 months after)
Gundama II (c. 1015–1038)
Vajrahasta V (c. 1038–1070)
Rajaraja Deva I (c. 1070–1077)
Anantavarman Chodaganga (c. 1077–1147)
Jatesvaradeva (c. 1147–1156)
Raghava Deva (c. 1156–1170)
Rajaraja Deva II (c. 1170–1190)
Anangabhima Deva II (c. 1190–1198)
Rajraja Deva III (c. 1198–1211)
Anangabhima Deva III (c. 1211–1238)
Narasimha Deva I (1238–1264)
Bhanu Deva I (1264–1278)
Narasimha Deva II (1279–1306)
Bhanu Deva II (1306–1328)
Narasimha Deva III (1328–1352)
Bhanu Deva III (1352–1378)
Narasimha Deva IV (1378–1414)
Bhanu Deva IV (1414–1434)


==== Gudari Kataka Eastern Ganga rulers ====
According to Gangavansucharitam written in sixteenth or seventeenth century, Bhanu Deva IV also known as Kajjala Bhanu founded a new small princedom in southern Odisha at Gudari in modern Rayagada district after he was toppled from power by his general Kapilendra Deva.

Kajjala Bhanu or Bhanu Deva IV
Svarna Bhanu
Kalasandha Deva
Chudanga Deva
Harimani Deva
Narasimha Deva
Ananta Deva
Padmanabha Deva
Pitambara Deva
Vasudeva
Purrushottama Anangabhima Deva or Bhima Deva


==== Parlakhemundi Ganga rulers ====
Parlakhemundi state rulers were the direct descendants of the Eastern Ganga dynasty rulers of Odisha.

Narasingha Deba (1309–1320)
Madanrudra Deba (1320–1339)
Narayana Rudra Deba (1339–1353)
Ananda Rudra Deba (1353–1354)
Ananda Rudra Deba (1354–1367)
Jayarudra Deba (1367–1399)
Lakhsmi Narasingha Deba (1399–1418)
Madhukarna Gajapati (1418–1441)
Murtunjaya Bhanu Deba (1441–1467)
Madhaba Bhanu Deba (1467–1495)
Chandra Betal Bhanu Deba (1495–1520)
Subarnalinga Bhanu Deba (1520–1550)
Sibalinga Narayan Bhanudeo (1550–1568)
Subarna Kesari Govinda Gajapati Narayan Deo (1568–1599)
Mukunda Rudra Gajapati Narayan Deo (1599–1619)
Mukunda Deo (1619–1638)
Ananta Padmanabh Gajapati Narayan Deo I (1638–1648)
Sarbajgan Jagannatha Gajapati Narayan Deo I (1648–1664)
Narahari Narayan Deo (1664–1691)
Bira Padmanabh Narayan Deo II (1691–1706)
Prataprudra Gajapati Narayan Deo I (1706–1736)
Jagannatha Gajapati Narayana Deo II  (1736–1771)
Goura Chandra Gajapati Narayan Deo I (1771–1803)
Purushottam Gajapati Narayan Deo (1803–1806)
Jagannath Gajapati Narayan Deo III (1806–1850)
Prataprudra Gajapati Narayan Deo II (1850–1885)
Goura Chandra Gajapati Narayan Deo II (1885–1904)
Krushna Chandra Gajapati Narayan Deo (1913 – 25 May 1974)
Gopinath Gajapati Narayan Deo  (25 May 1974 – 10 January 2020)
Kalyani Gajapati (10 January 2020–present)


==== Chikiti Ganga rulers ====
Historians conclude that the rulers of Chikiti were from the line of Ganga ruler Hastivarman.

Kesaba Rautara (Bira Karddama Singha Rautara) (881–940)
Balabhadra Rautara (941–997)
Madhaba Rautara (998–1059)
Languli Rautara (1060–1094)
Mohana Rautara (1095–1143)
Balarama Rautara (1144–1197)
Biswanatha Rautara (1198–1249)
Harisarana Rautara (1250–1272)
Raghunatha Rautara (1273–1313)
Dinabandhu Rautara (1314–1364)
Gopinatha Rautara (1365–1417)
Ramachandra Rautara (1418–1464)
Narayana Rautara (1465–1530)
Narasingha Rautara (1531–1583)
Lokanatha Rautara (1584–1633)
Jadumani Rautara (1634–1691)
Madhusudana Rajendra Deba (1692–1736)
Kulamani Rajendra Deba (1737–1769)
Krusnachandra Rajendra Deba (1770–1790)
Pitambara Rajendra Deba (1791–1819)
Gobindachandra Rajendra Deba (1820–1831)
Kulamani Rajendra Deba (1832–1835)
Brundabanachandra Rajendra Deba (1835–1846)
Jagannatha Rajendra Deba (1847–1855)
Biswambhara Rajendra Deba (1856–1885)
Kisorachandra Rajendra Deba (1885–1903)
Radhamohana Rajendra Deba (1903–1923) and (1934–1937)
Gaurachandra Rajendra Deba (1923–1934)
Court of Wards (1937–1945)
Sachhidananda Rajendra Deba (1945–1947)


==== Gadapur Ganga Estate ====
History of the Gadapur Royal Family
Historians conclude that the Ganga rulers of Gadapur were from the line of Sanakhemundi Ganga Family, and close relation with chikiti Royal family,
The Gadapur Zamindari family traces its origin to the royal lineage of Sanakhemundi Rajya. During the reign of Aadhi Kandha Deba, his two sons were set to inherit the throne, which created tensions and the possibility of conflict. To prevent a war, the nearby branches of the family — Parlakhemundi and Badakhemundi — intervened and settled lands for the two sons, who were cousins of these lines. Consequently, the Sanakhemundi State was divided: the elder son retained the native Sanakhemundi region, while the younger son, Thata-Raja Raghunath Deba, established his estate in the hilly regions of Kandhamal, founding the Gadapur Zamindari.
Under British rule, this estate became known as the 14 Koss Zamindari, extending from Surada Rajya to Tumerbinda Patra Rajya, and emerged as one of the major estates in the Kandhamal region. The Gadapur rulers were renowned as Maladhipatis (Lords of the Tribals), exercising significant influence and responsibility over tribal communities. Remarkably, the Zamindari system in Gadapur continued until 1995, surviving even after the official abolition of Zamindari in 1951, reflecting the enduring legacy and respect commanded by the family.

Thatraj Saheb Raghunath Deba (1840-1899)
Thatraj Saheb Surjya Narayan Deba (1899-1917)
Thatraj Saheb Kishore-Chandra Deba (1917-1928)
Thatraj Saheb Brindaban Deba (younger son of Surjya Narayan Deba) (1928-1940)
Thatraj Saheb Rajiblochan Deo (Elder & Successor son of Kishore Chandra) (1940-2003)
Thatraj Saheb Nalinikantha Deo (Titular King) (2003-2020)
Thatraj Saheb Khirod Chandra Deo, (Titular & Current Rajha from 2020)


=== Naga dynasty of Kalahandi ===

Raghunath Sai (1005–1040 AD)
Pratap Narayan Deo (1040–1072 AD)
Birabar Deo (1072–1108 AD)
Jugasai Deo I (1108–1142 AD)
Udenarayan Deo (1142–1173 AD)
Harichandra Deo (1173–1201 AD)
Ramachandra Deo (1201–1234 AD)
Gopinath Deo (1234–1271 AD)
Balabhadra Deo (1271–1306 AD)
Raghuraj Deo (1306–1337 AD)
Rai Singh Deo I (1337–1366 AD)
Haria Deo (1366–1400 AD)
Jugasai Deo II (1400–1436 AD)
Pratap Narayan Deo II (1436–1468 AD)
Hari Rudra Deo (1468–1496 AD)
Anku Deo (1496–1528 AD)
Pratap Deo (1528–1564 AD)
Raghunath Deo (1564–1594 AD)
Biswambhar Deo (1594–1627 AD)
Rai Singh Deo II (1627–1658 AD)
Dusmant Deo (1658–1693 AD)
Jugasai Deo III (1693–1721 AD)
Khadag Rai Deo (1721–1747 AD)
Rai Singh Deo III (1747–1771 AD)
Purusottam Deo (1771–1796 AD)
Jugasai Dei IV (1796–1831 AD)
Fate Narayan Deo (1831–1853 AD)
Udit Pratap Deo I (1853–1881 AD)
Raghu Keshari De (1894–1897 AD)
Court of Wards (1897–1917 AD)
Brajamohan Deo (1917–1939 AD)
Pratap Keshari Deo (1939–1947 AD until the merger with Orissa state)


=== Silavamsa rulers of Nandapur ===

The Machkund or Matsyakund River (also called Sileru River in Andhra Pradesh) formed the border between the Silavamsa dynasty of Nandpur and the Matsya dynasty of Odda-Adi in Madugula. The Silavamsa and Matsya family were connected by matrimonial alliances and the Vaddadi kingdom of Matsya family was eventually destroyed by Krishna Deva Raya and absorbed into the Nandapur Kingdom.

Ganga Raja (1353–??)
Viswanadha Raja or Bhairava Raja
Pratap Ganga Raja (??–1443)
The Silavamsa king Pratap Ganga Raja died without any male heir, only leaving behind his wife and daughter Lilavati. Lilavati married Vinayak Dev, the ruler of Gudari and he became the ruler of Nandapur after Pratap Ganga Raja's death. Vishwanath Dev Gajapati transferred his capital to Rayagada. During his reign Shri Chaitanya migrated southward and they adopted the title of "Nauna Gajapati". In 1540 CE, after the death of Prataparudra Deva he declared himself Gajapati, but later accepted the suzerainty of Govinda Vidyadhara. He consolidated his kingdom but by 1550 lost the regions between Krishna and Godavari to Qutb Shahi dynasty. After his death in 1571, Ibrahim Qutb Shah invaded the kingdom and incorporated their territories into Golconda Sultanate.

Vinayak Dev (1443–1476)
Vijay Chandra or Vijaychandraksha Dev(1476–1510)
Bhairav Dev (1510–1527)
Vishwanath Dev Gajapati (1527–1571)


=== Early Chauhan rulers ===
This Rajput dynasty had arrived from Mainpuri or Garh Sambhor amidst a conflict with the Muslim rulers of Delhi around 13th or 14th century. The founder Ramai Deva was still in the womb of his mother when his father was murdered by the Yavanas and she fled to the hilly and forest terrains of western Odisha to seek refuge. The early 17th-century works by the Poet Gangadhar Mishra (a descendant of the famous Sanskrit poet Sambhukara from Puri) known as Kosalananda and early 18th-century work by the Chauhan king Vaijala Deva known as Probodha Chandrika and Jayachandrika give detailed descriptions about their origins and foundation of the state first at Patna and then Sambalpur.
Ramai Deva was first adopted by a local priest or Brahmin chief known as Chakradhara Panigrahi who provided shelter and refuge to his fleeing mother during her pregnancy. Ramai Deva later won over other local chiefs and established the Patna state. He married the daughter of the Eastern Ganga King Bhanudeva III


==== Patna (Bolangir) ====

Ramai Deva (1360–1380)
Mahalinga Deva (1380–1385)
Vatsaraja Deva (1385–1410)
Vaijala Deva I (1410–1430)
Bhojaraj Deva (1430–1455)
Pratap Rudra Deva I (1455–1480)
Bhupal Deva I (1480–1500)
Vikramaditya Deva I (1500–1520)
Vaijal Deva II (1520–1540)
Bajra Hiradhara Deva (1540–1570)
Narsingh Deva (1570–1577)
Hamir Deva (1577–1581)
Pratap Deva II (1581–1620)
Vikramaditya Deva II (1620–1640)
Mukunda Deva (1640–1670)
Balaram Deva (1670–1678)
Hrdesha Deva (1678–1685)
Rai Singh Deva (1685–1762)
Prithviraj Deva (1762–1765)
Ramchandra Singh Deo I (1765–1820)
Bhupal Singh Deo (1820–1848)
Hiravajra Singh Deo (1848–1866)
Pratap Singh Deo (1866–1878)
Ramchandra Singh Deo II (1878–1895)
Lal Dalganjan Singh Deo (1895–1910)
Prithviraj Singh (1910–1924)
Rajendra Narayan Singh Deo (1924–1948)


==== Sambalpur ====

Balarama Deva (1570 – 1595 CE)
Hrdayanarayana Deva (1595–1605)
Balabhadra Deva (1605–1630)
Madhukar Deva (1630–1660)
Baliara Deva (1650–1688)
Ratan Singh (1688–1690)
Chhatra Sai (1690–1725)
Ajit Singh (1725–1766)
Abhaya Singh (1766–1778)
Balabhadra Singh (1778–1781)
Jayanta Singh (1781–1818)
Maharaj Sai (1820–1827)
Rani Mohan Kumari (f) (1827–1833)
Narayan Singh (1833–1849)
Surendra Sai (in rebellion) (1857–1862)


=== Bahubalendra Chalukya ===
The Bahubalendra Chalukya dynasty, traces its ancestry to the Eastern Chalukyas of Rajahmundry, a powerful dynasty that ruled parts of South India between the 7th and 12th centuries. The dynasty’s spiritual and dynastic lineage is linked to divine origins—stemming from the sage Atri and Pururavas, leading to the Pandavas of the Mahabharata, particularly Arjuna, and continuing through his son Abhimanyu and descendant Vishnuvardhana, the progenitor of the Eastern Chalukyas. From this illustrious line, Vijayaditya, son of Kulottunga I and Chandambika Devi, founded the independent Chalukya kingdom of Elamanchili around 1175 CE. Over time, his descendants, known as the Chalukyas of Elamanchili, ruled parts of modern-day Andhra and Odisha, particularly in the Vizagapatam and Godavari districts. Despite recognizing the suzerainty of the Eastern Gangas, they remained mostly independent and were known for military resilience and cultural patronage. As time passed, a northern branch of the Elamanchili Chalukyas migrated and established themselves in Machamara village (now in Odisha), giving rise to the Bahubalendra Chalukyas of Machamara. Their royal insignia—a wild boar holding a sword, flanked by the sun and half-moon—symbolized their divine protection, strength, and enduring sovereignty.
Rulers

Rajha Sarvaloksrya Vimaladitya
Rajha Sarvaloksrya Rajanarendra Chola-Chalukya
Rajha Sarvaloksrya Kulottunga Chola-Chalukya
Rajha Vijayaditya Chola-Chalukya
Rajha Mallavadeva Chola
Rajha Upendra Bhupati I
Rajha Kopparaja Bhupati
Rajha Mana Bhupati
Rajha Visveswara Bhupati
Rajha Nagendra Bhupati
Rajha Kumar-Yarrama Bhupati
Rajha Singharaja Deva Rai Mahapatra
* Rajkumar Sridharajanarendra     * Rajkumar Sarvaraja (secondary lineage)

Rajha Sridharajanarendra Deva Rai Mahapatra
Rajha Bahubalendra Gajapati Narasimha Deva Rai
Rajha Bahubalendra Mukunda-Raj Deva Rai (Mukunda-raj lost their ancestral territory to Golconda Qutab Quli Saha)
Bahubalendra Ananta Narayana Deva Rai {Migrated to Machamara due to political instability (in-present day, Near Parlakhemundi, Gajapati)}
Bahubalendra Gaurava Deva Rai
Bahubalendra Padmanabha Deva Rai
Bahubalendra Sarangadhara Deva Rai
Bahubalendra Visvanatha Deva Rai
Bahubalendra Bankini DevaRai Samanta (Granted Village-Batisiripur Mandal from Gajapati Jagannatha Narayana Deba)
Bahubalendra Dayanidhi Deva Rai Samanta
Bahubalendra Laxmipati Deva Rai Samanta
Bahubalendra Krushna Chandra Deva Rai Samanta
Bahubalendra Devendra Deva Rai Samanta
Bahubalendra Chandrasekhar Rai Samanta,(He adopted by his aunt, Rani Chandramani Patta Maha devi of Madugulu Estate)
Bahubalendra Krushna Chandra Deo
Bahubalendra Biranchi Narayana Deo, (Current Head Of Family)


== Medieval period ==


=== Gajapati Empire or Routray dynasty ===
Source:

Kapilendra Deva (1435–67)
Purushottama Deva (1467–97)
Hamvira Deva (Defacto Gajapati of Southern territories of the Gajapati Empire 1472-76)
Prataparudra Deva (1497–1540)
Ramachandra Deva
Purushottam Deva
Govinda Vidyadhara, the general of Prataparudra, killed Prataparudra's remaining sons in c. 1541 and began the Bhoi dynasty.


=== Early Bhoi dynasty ===
Govinda Vidyadhara (1541–1548)
Chakrapratapa (1548–1557)
Narasimha Ray Jena (1557–1558)
Raghuram Ray Chotaraya (1558–1560)
Bhoi dynasty was short-lived but during their reign, Orissa came into conflicts with the invaders from Golconda. After being deposed by Mukunda Deva, the dynasty shifts its power centre to Khurda where they continue as Rajas of Khurda.


=== Eastern Chalukya dynasty of Mukunda Deva ===
Mukunda Deva who traced his descent from the Eastern Chalukyas of Vengi rebelled and killed the last two successors of the Bhoi dynasty and declared himself an independent ruler in 1559 but Sulaiman Khan Karrani formed a kingdom in the region of Bengal which proved a potential threat to Mukunda Deva.

Mukunda Deva (1560–68)


== Post-medieval period ==


=== Karranis of Bengal ===
Instigated by Mukunda Deva's alliance with Akbar, Sulaiman's army led by Kalapahad invaded Orissa in 1568. The Karranis of Bengal had control over much of Northern Odisha coast above Cuttack, the Bhoi dynasty ruled over Khordha, the Garhjat Kings had control over much of the interior regions of Odisha and the Southern Odisha coast including Northern Circars became a part of Golconda Sultanate in 1572.

Sulaiman Khan Karrani (1568–1572)
Bayazid Khan Karrani (1572)
Daud Khan Karrani (1572–12 July 1576)
In the Battle of Tukaroi, which took place in modern-day Balasore, Daud was defeated and retreated deep into Orissa. The battle led to the Treaty of Katak in which Daud ceded the whole of Bengal and Bihar, retaining only Odisha. The treaty eventually failed after the death of Munim Khan (governor of Bengal and Bihar) who died at the age of 80. Sultan Daud Khan took the opportunity and invaded Bengal. This would lead to the Battle of Raj Mahal in 1576.


=== Qutb Shahi dynasty ===
Ibrahim Qutb Shah invaded South Odisha coast in 1572 and Balaram Dev of Jeypore accepted his suzerainty. In 1604 Mukunda Bahubalendra, a relative of Mukunda Deva who was ruling from Rajahmundry raised a revolt but was defeated.

Ibrahim Qutb Shah (1572-1580)
Muhammad Qutb Shah (1580-1612)
Sultan Muhammad Qutb Shah (1612-1626)
Abdullah Qutb Shah (1626-1672)
Tana Shah (1672-1686)


=== Mughal Empire ===
Qutlu Khan Lohani (former officer of Daud Khan Karrani, ruler of coastal Northeastern Orissa and south Bengal) (1576–1590)
Nasir Khan (son of Qutlu Khan, Mughal vassal) (1590–1592)
Man Singh I (Mughal Subahdar) (1592–1606)
Man Singh I attacked Nasir Khan when the later broke a treaty by attacking the temple town of Puri. Orissa was annexed into the Bengal subah (province).The Mughal rule was weak in the region, this allowed local chieftains to somewhat enjoy a semi-independence.


=== Nawab of Bengal ===
By 1717, with the weakening of Mughal Empire following Mughal–Maratha Wars in which the Marathas became the dominant power in the subcontinent, the Bhoi dynasty of Khurda kingdom and the semi-autonomous Garhjat kings of Odisha became independent of the Mughal sovereign authority, while the Nawabs of Bengal retained control over the Northern coast of Odisha from Cuttack to Subarnarekha river until the region was finally conquered by the Maratha Empire starting from the invasion in 1741 by 1751.

Murshid Quli Khan (Nawab of Bengal) (1717–1727)
Shuja-ud-Din (Nawab of Bengal) (1727–1739)
Sarfaraz Khan (Nawab of Bengal) (1727 and 1739–1740)
Alivardi Khan (Nawab of Bengal) (1740–1751)
The Nawabs of Bengal controlled the Northern Odisha coast from Cuttack to Subarnarekha river which was conquered by the Marathas and eventually ceded following the peace treaty in 1751.


=== Maratha Empire ===
The Maratha Empire general, Raghoji I Bhonsle of the Nagpur kingdom led the Maratha expeditions in Bengal in 1741 which extended Maratha control over Odisha and signed a treaty with Alivardi Khan in 1751, ceding the perpetuity of Cuttack up to the river Suvarnarekha to the Marathas.

Raghoji I Bhonsle (Maratha general of Nagpur) (1751–1755)
Janoji Bhonsle (1755–1772)
Mudhoji Bhonsle (1772–1788)
Raghoji II Bhonsle (1788–1803)


==== Maratha administrators ====
Mir Habib (1751–1752)
Mirza Saleh (1752–1759)
Seo Bhatt Sathe (1760–1764)
Bhawani Pandit (1764–1768)
Sambhaji Ganesh (1768–1770)
Babuji Naik (1770–1773)
Madhaji Hari (1773–1777)
Rajaram Pandit (1778–1793)
Sadashiv Rao (1793–1803)


=== Later Bhanja dynasty states ===


==== Mayurbhanj ====

Adi Bhanj (?Adi Bhanj II of the Bhanj dynasty) (12th cen CE)
...
Savesvara Bhanj Deo (1688–1711)
Viravikramaditya Bhanj Deo (1711–1728)
Raghunath Bhanj Deo (1728–1750)
Chakradhar Bhanj Deo (1750–1761)
Damodar Bhanj Deo (1761–1796)
Rani Sumitra Devi (f) – Regent of Mayurbhanj (1796–1810)
Rani Jamuna Devi  (f) – Regent of Mayurbhanj (1810–1813)
Tribikram Bhanj Deo (1813–1822)
Jadunath Bhanj Deo (1822–1863)
Shrinath Bhanj Deo (1863–1868)
Krishna Chandra Bhanj Deo (1868 – 29 May 1882)
Sriram Chandra Bhanj Deo (29 May 1882 –  22 February 1912)
Purna Chandra Bhanj Deo (22 February 1912 – 21 April 1928)
Pratap Chandra Bhanj Deo (21 Apr 1928 – 1 January 1948)


==== Keonjhar ====

Jyoti Bhanj (12th cen CE)
...
Jagannath Bhanj (1688–1700)
Raghunath Bhanj (1700–1719)
Gopinath Bhanj (1719–1736)
Narsingh Narayan Bhanj (1736–1757)
Daneswar Narayan Bhanj (1757–1758)
Jagateswar Narayan Bhanj (1758–1762)
Pratap Balbhadra Bhanj (1762–1794)
Janardan Bhanj (1794–1825)
Gadadhar Narayan Bhanj Deo (1825 – 22 March 1861)
Dhanurjai Narayan Bhanj Deo (4 September 1861 – 27 October 1905)
Gopinath Narayan Bhanj Deo (27 Oct 1905 – 12 August 1926)
Balbhadra Narayan Bhanj Deo (12 Aug 1926 – 1 January 1948)


==== Nilgiri ====

Narayan Singh Bhujang Mandhata Birat Basant Harichandan (1521–1564)
...
Ram Chandra Mardraj Harichandan (1797–1832)
Govind Chandra Mardraj Harichandan (1832–1833)
Chira Devi – Rani (1833–1843)
Krishna Chandra Mardraj Harichandan (1843–1893)
Shyam Chandra Mardraj Harichandan (1893-6 Jul 1913) (from the Bhanj dynasty of Mayurbhanj State)
Kishor Chandra Mardraj Harichandan (6 July 1913 – 1 January 1948)


==== Baudh ====

The Baudh princely state had gradually become a small state after it had ceded away large sways of territories in the west and south to the Chauhans of Sambalpur and Daspalla region in Nayagarh which became a separate Bhanja princely state later.

Ananga Bhanja (Ananga Deba) (14th cen CE)
...
Siddhabhanja Deba (Siddheswar Deba) (1640s)
Pratap Deba
Bswambhar Deba (1778–1817)
Chandrasekhar Deba (1817–1839)
Pitamber Deo (1839-5 October 1879)
Jogendra Deo (5 October 1879 – 1913)
Narayan Prasad Deo (1913-1 January 1948)


==== Daspalla ====

The Daspalla Bhanja state was established by Sal Bhanja from the territories gifted to his father Narayan Bhanja Deo by his brother, the ruler of Baudh.

Naren Bhanja (1498 CE)
...
Chakradhar Deo Bhanja (1653–1701)
Padmanav Deo Bhanja (1701–1753)
Trilochan Deo Bhanja (1753–1775)
Makunda Bhank Deo Bhanja (1775–1795)
Guri Charan Deo Bhanja (1795–1805)
Krishna Chanda Deo Bhanja (1805–1845)
Madhusudan Deo Bhanja (1845–1861)
Narsimha Deo Bhanja (1861–1873)
Chaitan Deo Bhanja (1873–19 April 1897)
Narayan Deo Bhanja (19 April 1897 – 11 Dec 1913)
Kishor Chandra Deo Bhanja (11 December 1913 – 1 January 1948)


=== Later Chauhan rulers ===


==== Sonepur ====

The territory of Sonepur was procured by the Chauhans of Sambalpur from the Bhanja kings of Baudh.

Madan Gopal (1650 – 1680 CE)
Lal Sai Deo (1680–1689)
Purusottam Deo (1689–1709)
Raj Singh Deo (1709–1729)
Achal Singh Deo (1729–1749)
Divya Singh Deo (1749–1766)
Jarawar Singh Deo (1766–1767)
Sobha Singh Deo (1767–1781)
Prithvi Singh Deo (1781–1841)
Niladhar Singh Deo (1841 – 11 September 1891)
Pratap Rudra Singh (11 September 1891 – 8 August 1902)
Bir Mitrodaya Singh Deo (8 August 1902 – 29 April 1937)
Sudhansu Shekhar Singh Deo (29 April 1937 – 1 January 1948)


==== Khariar ====
The third branch of Chauhan rulers descended in the line of Patna's Ramai Deva started their separate rule from Khariar in the seventeenth century.

Gopal Rai (1600–1625)
Ramsai Deo I
Padman Rai
Vishnu Rai
Ghansi Rai Deo
Gopinath Sai Deo
Ramsai Deo II
Balabhadra Sai
Prataprudra Singh (1793–1818)
Ratan Singh Deo (1818–1835)
Sudarsan Singh Deo (1835–1849)
Krishna Chandra Singh Deo (1849–1867)
Padma Singh Deo (1867–1889)
Brajraj Singh Deo (1889–1907)
Vir Vikram Singh Deo (1907–1913)
Artatran Singh Deo (1913–1946)
Anup Singh Deo (1946 – until accession)


=== Later Nandapur-Jeypore rulers ===

After the death of Vishwanath Dev in 1571 the Qutb Shahis militarily encroached the eastern parts of the kingdom lying adjacent to Bay of Bengal which made Balaram Dev accept the suzerainty of Golconda.
Aurangzeb conquered Golconda in 1687 and the Circars along with the Jeypore Kingdom were annexed to the extensive empire of Aurangzeb. The successor of Raghunath Krishna Dev proved to be an inefficient ruler and as a result lost the vast territory of Northern Circars to their minister Viziaram Raz who formed the Vizianagaram State, who also adopted the title of Gajapati. However, the kings of Jeypore continued to rule their decreased kingdom independently until the advent of the British in 1777. The British destroyed the fort of Jeypore and granted them a demoted status of a Zamindari.

Balaram Dev (1571–1597)
Yashasvana Dev (1597–1637)
Krishna Raj Dev (1637)
Veer Vikram Dev (1637–1669)
Krishna Dev (1669–1672)
Vishwambhara Dev I (1672–1676)
Mallakimardhana Krishna Dev (1676–1681)
Hari Dev (1681–1684)
Balaram Dev II (1684–1686)
Raghunath Krishna Dev (1686–1708)
Ramchandra Dev I (1708–1711)
Balaram Dev III (1711–1713)
Vishwambhara Dev II (1713–1752)
Lal Krishna Dev (1752–1758)
Vikram Dev I (1758–1781)
Ramchandra Dev II (1781–1825)
Vikram Dev II (1825–1860)
Ramchandra Dev III (1860–1889)
Vikram Dev III (1889–1920)
Ramchandra Dev IV (1920–1931)
Vikram Dev IV (1931–1951)


=== Later Bhoi dynasty ===


==== Khurda ====
After 1576 following the wars between the Afghans and Mughals which ended with the victory of the Mughals, and with the advent of Mughal rule in Odisha in 1592, the centre of power of Bhoi dynasty had shifted from Cuttack to Khurda. They continue to remain as vassal of the Mughal empire from 1592 until 1717 and later under the Maratha empire from 1741 until they were eventually ceded to the British empire under the control of the British East India Company in 1803 following the Second Anglo-Maratha War with the signing of the Treaty of Deogaon.

Ramachandra Deva I (Abhinav Indradyumna) (1568–1600)
Purusottam Deva (1600–1621)
Narasingha Deva (1621–1647)
Balabhadra Deva (1647–1657)
Mukunda Deva I (1657–1689)
Divyasingha Deva I (1689–1716)
Harekrushna Deva (1716–1720)
Gopinath Deva (1720–1727)
Ramachandra Deva II (1727–1736)
Birakesari Deva I (Bhagirathi Deva) (1736–1793)
Divyasingha Deva II (1793–1798)
Mukundeva Deva II (1798–1804) (titular till 1809)
The Rajas of Khurda continued to rule the region well into the early 1800s but by then their power had diminished. Then the Raja of Khurda along with other local chieftain led a series of rebellions against the British which was suppressed in 1804 and the kingdom was annexed by the British. The Raja of Khurda was exiled but later reinstated and shifted to Puri in 1809.


==== Puri ====

Mukundeva Deva II (1809–1817) (reinstated and continues as Raja of Puri)
Ramchandra Deva III (1817–1854)
Birakesari Deva II (1854–1859)
Divyasingha Deva III (1859–1882)
Mukundeva Deva III (1882–1926)
Ramchandra Deva IV (1926–1956)
Birakisore Deva III (1956–1970)
Divyasingha Deva IV (1970–current)


== British colonial period ==

Mukundeva Deva II was discontent under Maratha rule, so he agreed to help British troops to march through his territory without resistance. In 1803, Maratha ceded Orissa to the British empire. The Rajas and other local chieftains lead a series of rebellions against the British. Notable among the rebellions is that of Surendra Sai.
Odia speaking people at this time were placed in different provinces. Around 1870, a movement was started to unify the Oriya-speaking 
within a state. In 1936, the new state of Orissa was formed. About 25 princely states, remained independent but they were later integrated by 1947, except Saraikela, Kharsawan, Bastar, Parlakhemundi Zamindari (rest of today's Vijayanagaram).


=== Lieutenant governors and governors of Bihar and Orissa Province ===
Sir Charles Stuart Bayley (1912–1915)
Sir Edward Albert Gait (1915–1918) & (1918–1920)
Sir Edward Vere Levinge (acting) (1918)
Satyendra Prasanna Sinha, 1st Baron Sinha (1920–1921)
Havilland Le Mesurier (acting) (1921–1922)
Sir Henry Wheeler (1922–1927)
Sir Hugh Lansdown Stephenson (1927–1932)
Sir James David Sifton (1932–1936)


=== Governors of Orissa Province ===
Sir John Austen Hubback (1936–1938) & (1938–1941)
George Townsend Boag (Acting) (1938)
Sir Hawthorne Lewis (1941–1946)
Chandulal Madhavlal Trivedi (1946–1947)


=== Prime ministers of Orissa Province ===
Krushna Chandra Gajapati (1937) & (1941–1944)
Bishwanath Das (1937–1939)
Harekrushna Mahatab (1946–1947)


== Post Independence ==
See: List of governors of Odisha
See: List of chief ministers of Odisha


== See also ==
History of Orissa
Maritime history of Orissa


== References ==


=== Bibliography ===

Rolf Anders Zetterlund (born 2 January 1942) is a Swedish former football player and manager. He was the 1980 recipient of Guldbollen as Sweden's best footballer of the year.


== Playing career ==
Zetterlund played for Atvidabergs FF, Sandvikens IF, AIK and IK Brage during a career that spanned between 1963 and 1980. He was bestowed the Swedish Football player of the year award when he retired in 1980, at the age of 38, never having been called up to the Sweden national team.


== Managerial career ==
Zetterlund coached IK Brage, AIK, Örebro SK, Spårvägens FF, Malmö FF, Hammarby IF, Vasalunds IF, Vallentuna BK and Vasalund/Essinge IF between 1977 and 2005.


== Honours ==
Individual

Guldbollen: 1980


== References ==


== External links ==
Profile at AIK
Rolf Zetterlund at WorldFootball.net

Karyn Ellen Polito (born November 11, 1966) is an American attorney, businesswoman, and politician who served as the 72nd lieutenant governor of Massachusetts from 2015 to 2023. Polito was a Republican member of the Massachusetts House of Representatives for the 11th Worcester district from 2001 to 2011. Polito was first elected lieutenant governor in 2014 with her running mate, Charlie Baker. They were both re-elected in 2018, and declined to seek reelection in 2022.


== Early life and education ==
Polito is a lifelong resident of Shrewsbury, Massachusetts. She graduated from Holy Name Central Catholic High School. Shortly after graduating from Boston College with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1988, she received her Juris Doctor from New England Law in 1991.


== Career ==
An attorney, Polito co-owns and operates a commercial real estate development firm.
Polito is a member of the Republican Party. Her experience in politics and government includes stints as a Shrewsbury Town Meeting member (1993–2000), a member of the Shrewsbury Zoning Board of Appeals (1994–1995), and a Shrewsbury selectman (1995–1998). Polito was the commissioner of the Massachusetts Lottery from 1999 to 2000. In 1998, Polito ran for the Massachusetts Senate in the Second Worcester district. However, she lost the general election to Guy Glodis.


=== Massachusetts House of Representatives ===
In 2000, Polito was elected State Representative for the 11th district of Worcester, which covers the town of Shrewsbury and precincts 1 and 4 of the adjacent town of Westborough in Worcester County. She served in the Massachusetts House of Representatives from 2001 to 2011, winning every election without any opposition.


=== 2010 state treasurer campaign ===

On March 1, 2010, Polito announced she would run for the office of treasurer and receiver-general of Massachusetts. She was unopposed in the Republican primary. Polito lost in the general election to Democratic candidate Steve Grossman, but won 45% of the vote, receiving the most votes of any Republican running for office in Massachusetts in 2010.


=== Lieutenant governor of Massachusetts ===


==== 2014 campaign ====

On December 3, 2013, Polito announced her candidacy for Lieutenant Governor of Massachusetts. The leading GOP candidate for Governor, Charlie Baker, endorsed her candidacy. She was not opposed in the September 2014 primary. Baker and Polito won the 2014 gubernatorial election, defeating Democratic candidates Martha Coakley and Steve Kerrigan, respectively, 48.40% to 46.54%.


==== 2018 campaign ====

In August 2018, Baker and Polito formally launched their re-election campaign. Both were successful in the Republican primary election held on September 4, 2018, with Polito running unopposed. Baker and Polito faced challengers Jay Gonzalez and Quentin Palfrey of the Democratic Party in the general election. The Baker/Polito ticket defeated the Gonzales/Palfrey ticket by a margin of 1,781,341 votes to 885,770.


=== Issues and record ===
Karyn Polito has been described as a socially moderate Republican who is generally conservative on most other issues. On the Issues, a non-partisan organization that records a politician's position on issues, considers her to be a "Moderate Conservative." Polito did not vote for President Donald Trump in 2016 and announced that she did not support Trump's re-election.

Polito has supported term limits and eliminating state pensions for elected officials.
She has been supportive of state tax cuts.
She said she is proud of her pro-choice record, noting high ratings from NARAL Pro-Choice America and Planned Parenthood.
Polito had an A+ rating from Gun Owners' Action League (GOAL), and an A− rating from the NRA Political Victory Fund.
As a state representative in 2007, Polito voted yes on a constitutional amendment defining marriage as between one man and one woman. She did support same-sex civil unions. In 2013, however, Polito reversed her position and expressed public support for same-sex marriage.
Polito opposed Donald Trump's executive order to build a wall on the southern border of the United States.


== Personal life ==
Polito resides in Shrewsbury, Massachusetts with her husband, Stephan M. Rodolakis, and their two children. Rodolakis is an attorney specializing in bankruptcy proceedings.


== Electoral history ==


== See also ==
List of female lieutenant governors in the United States


== References ==


== External links ==

Lieutenant Governor Karyn Polito official government website
About Lieutenant Governor Polito Archived October 21, 2018, at the Wayback Machine official campaign website
Karyn Polito for Lieutenant Governor (archived)
Appearances on C-SPAN
Profile at Vote Smart

Student athlete (or student–athlete) is a term used principally in universities in the United States and Canada to describe students enrolled at postsecondary educational institutions, principally colleges and universities, but also at secondary schools, who participate in organized competitive sports sponsored by that educational institution or school.  The term is also interchangeable with the synonymous term “varsity athlete”.
The term student-athlete was coined by Walter Byers, the first executive director of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). It arose in response to a 1957 worker's compensation case filed by Billie Dwade Dennison, the widow of Ray Dennison, who died while playing football for Fort Lewis A&M (since renamed to Fort Lewis College). As Byers writes in his memoir, the word was designed to avoid the "dreaded notion that NCAA athletes could be identified as employees by state industrial commissions and the courts. We crafted the term student-athlete and soon it was embedded in all NCAA rules and interpretations as a mandated substitute for such words as players and athletes." 


== Historical perspective ==


== Scholar-athletes in England ==
In the mid-19th century, paedagological reformers in the UK, especially in England, such as Thomas Arnold, Headmaster of Rugby, emphasised the importance of English schoolboys from the upper and middle classes developing the spirit, the mind, and the body, which was known as Muscular Christianity.


== Student athletes in USA ==
Competitive intramural sports were introduced in post-secondary education in the United States in the nineteenth century. The first popular collegiate sport was crew, but American rules football began its reign as the leading collegiate sport in the late 1880s. As interest in football increased, so did injuries incurred in competition. The NCAA was born out of President Theodore Roosevelt's demand to reform college football.
The relationship in the US between US secondary and tertiary educational institutions and US college and US high school sports has been controversial since the 1930s, with media coverage of sports generating significant revenue for schools in broadcast rights for school sports programs and increased enrollment resulting from athletic team success. Concerns about the role of intercollegiate athletics in post-secondary education and the conflicting demands faced by student-athletes remain.


== Athletic scholarships ==
An athletic scholarship is a form of support for tuition, room, board, and related costs awarded to an individual based predominantly on ability in sport. Educational institutions may offer athletic scholarships to potential students that excel in sports and meet specific educational achievement standards. Student-athletes must be amateurs and may not participate in professional competition. Special treatment or incentives beyond the scope of the scholarships themselves are banned. The scholarships generally include academic support such as tutoring and library services.
Scholarships are regulated by organizations such as the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA), the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA) and the National Junior College Athletic Association (NJCAA). They set requirements such as a minimum academic performance for scholarship recipients (typically a grade point average), and a limit to the number of scholarships for players on college rosters. Each level (divisions) have different limits of scholarship money they can give out. Division III can not give out scholarships for athletics though.


=== Scholarships in the NCAA ===
NCAA regulations govern amateur status, and prohibit student-athletes from accepting prize money or compensation or sports agent representation.  Prospective student-athletes at NCAA schools have their academic credentials and amateur status certified.
The NCAA Eligibility Center certifies whether prospective college athletes are eligible to play sports at NCAA Division I or II institutions. It reviews the student-athlete's academic record, SAT or ACT scores, and amateur status to ensure conformity with NCAA rules. To be eligible for an athletic scholarship in an NCAA member institution, students must meet four main requirements: 1. Graduate from high school; 2. Complete the required number of core high school courses; 3. Earn a specified minimum GPA on a 4.0 scale in required core academic courses; 4. Achieve a specified minimum SAT or ACT score.
The NCAA has developed prerequisites for potential collegiate athletes based on its division structure:

To receive an athletic scholarship in an NCAA Division I institution during the first year of college, a student-athlete in high school must complete 16 core-course requirements in eight semesters while earning at least the minimum required grade-point average. The student-athlete must also earn SAT or ACT scores corresponding to the core course grade-point averages and test-score sliding scale. (For example, a 3.000 core-course grade-point average might require at least 620 in the SAT.) 
To enroll in an NCAA Division II college and participate in athletics or receive an athletic scholarship during a student's first year, the student must graduate from high school and complete 16 core courses with a 2.000 grade-point average or better in those courses, and earn a SAT score of 820 or an ACT sum score of 68.
No athletic scholarships are available at schools in NCAA Division III. Athletic budgets there are significantly lower and standards more straightforward. A student-athlete satisfying the admission requirements for a particular school is eligible to compete in their sport.
The Student Athlete Performance Rating (SAPR)  and Academic Progress Rate (APR) are used to measure student-athlete academic performance.
The Academic Progress Rate is an NCAA tool that measures the success of a program's athletes toward graduation. It takes into account academic eligibility and retention. Division I sports teams calculate their student-athletes APRs each academic year; it serves as a predictor of graduation success.


=== Athletic scholarship challenges ===
Gaining access to athletic programs and athletic scholarships can be difficult.  Few high school athletes earn college scholarships, and only a small percentage of athletic scholarships cover a student's tuition, room, board, and related expenses. Only about 2% of high school athletes earn an athletic scholarship to an NCAA university and, on average, these scholarships are far less than the average tuition. Only 1% of students get a full ride scholarship. The student athletes must meet the NCAA eligibility standards, and failure to meet these standards and complete academic work can jeopardize the student athlete's ability to compete, receive scholarships, and graduate from the institution at which they are enrolled.


== Student athlete pressures ==
Student-athletes face distinct challenges, including balancing athletic responsibilities with academic and social responsibilities; balancing athletic success or failure with emotional stability; balancing physical health and injury with the need to continue competing; balancing relationships with coaches, teammates, parents, and friends; and addressing the end of a college athletic career.
Student-athletes also face challenges relating to identity, with self-worth often hinging on athletic success.


== Title IX of the U.S. Education Amendments of 1972 ==
Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, commonly known simply as Title IX, is a United States law enacted on June 23, 1972, that states: "No person in the United States shall, based on sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance." Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 was designed to balance the amount of money spent on men's and women's sports. The late Sen. Ted Kennedy took a serious interest in women's athletics and was a champion of Title IX. "Over time, he played the leading role in keeping Title IX strong through the Senate, using his stature and his savvy to ensure that it remained strong protection for women in athletics," said Marcia Greenberger, co-president of the National Women's Law Center. "As his leadership in the Senate grew, his responsibility for ensuring that Title IX remained strong and enforced grew. He became the dominant force behind the Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987, which virtually re-enacted Title IX after a devastating, narrow Supreme Court decision, which among other things, removed Title IX coverage from all intercollegiate athletics; in this country." Greenberger contends that Title IX might not have survived without Kennedy's guardianship, and thus the sports world as it is today might be vastly different. The increased opportunities for female athletes can be witnessed in college and high school athletics programs and, in turn, have helped spawn professional leagues and greater participation and success at the Olympic level.


== Graduation rates for student athletes ==
United States federal law mandates that universities reveal their graduation rates to inform policymakers and constituencies about efforts to support educational attainment for students and athletes.  Revealing student-athlete graduation rates helps prospective student-athletes estimate the course load and amount of practice and game time that will occupy their schedules. Universities with more selective admission policies graduate both students and athletes at higher rates, though their athletes graduate at lower rates relative to their student cohorts.
All three levels of competition take a Graduation Success Rate; it analyzes the percentage of athletes who receive a degree from their school. The Graduation Success Rate is different from an ordinary graduation rate in that it fails to include athletes who have transferred from a given school (perhaps because of grades). 
At the Division I level, the most recent Graduation Success Rate measurement is 86 percent, which is the highest ever. This score is 15 percent better than the initial record in 1984. Overall, athletes graduated at a higher rate than their non-athletic peers. Graduation rates of athletes and non-athletes vary based on demographics. 
Division II uses the Academic Success Rate, which is different than the Graduation Success Rate used by the Division I level. The Academic Success Rate includes freshman athletes on a team who are not on an athletic scholarship. Division II athletes and Division II non-athletes perform at a relatively similar level.


=== Reason for higher graduation rates ===
The reason that student-athletes appear to have higher graduation rates is not clear. One answer may be that athletes stay on track due to tutors and other academic resources provided to them by their university. Student-athletes are reportedly often discouraged from taking more challenging courses.


== Student athletes after college ==
98% of collegiate athletes do not move on to professional sports after college.  Many struggle.
Administrators, teachers, counselors and others may accommodate academic cheating in an effort to ensure academic eligibility or to guarantee college admission. 
“Unfortunately, those high school/college athletes who have role status and popularity thrust on them may see little need to develop a wide repertoire of interpersonal skills or to augment their educational and vocational skills”. Ultimately this could lead to a lack of rationality when it comes to future goals and objectives.
Fewer than 4% of high school football and basketball players make the transition to the collegiate level, and fewer than 2% of that 4% continue into the professional ranks, making the prospects for continuing in competitive team athletics more an illusion than a realistic option. Despite these data, a significant number of high school athletes continue to view college sport as the minor league experience necessary for entry into professional sports.


=== Graduation rates compared ===
There is a noticeable difference in graduation rates between scholarship and non-scholarship athletes. The athletes who attend school on scholarship have typically fared worse than non-scholarship or partial-scholarship athletes in academic achievement.  The table of Demographic and Academic Information for Athletes and the General Student Population reveals that non-athlete students on average have higher GPA's than student athletes. The national average high school GPA for athletes was 2.99, while it was 3.31 for non-athletes. The national average college GPA for student athletes is 2.56 with a national graduation rate of 34.2%; non-athletes average GPAs are slightly higher at 2.74 with a national graduation rate of 46.8%.  Analysis of 10 years of graduation rates across all major athletic programs concludes that graduation rates alone are insufficient and misleading unless they account for the widely varying constituencies served by different universities.


=== Student athletes and NCAA compliance ===
Educational institutions in the NCAA are required to comply with the NCAA's rules and regulations, at the risk of serious penalties.


== See also ==
Academic All-America
College athletics
Youth sports
College athletics in the United States
U Sports
NCAA Division II
NCAA Division I
NCAA Division III
Student athlete compensation


== References ==


== External links ==
The Shame of College Sports - Taylor Branch, The Atlantic, September 7, 2011
O'Shaughnessy, Lynn. "8 things you should know about sports scholarships". cbsnews.com. Accessed December 13, 2017.

Mahewish Shahid Khan (Urdu: مہوش شاہد خان) (born 12 August 1981) is a Pakistani-Canadian former cricketer who played as a right-arm medium-fast bowler and right-handed batter. She appeared in two Test matches and 14 One Day Internationals for Pakistan between 1998 and 2001 before moving to play for Canada, appearing in 3 Twenty20 Internationals for the side in 2019.
In May 2019, she was named as the captain of Canada's squad for the 2019 ICC Women's Qualifier Americas tournament against the United States. She made her WT20I debut against the United States in the Americas Qualifier on 17 May 2019.


== References ==


== External links ==
Mahewish Khan at Cricinfo
Mahewish Khan at CricketArchive (subscription required)

Hypercompe amulaensis is a moth of the family Erebidae first described by Herbert Druce in 1889. It is found in Mexico.


== References ==

Pitkin, Brian & Jenkins, Paul. "Search results Family: Arctiidae". Butterflies and Moths of the World. Natural History Museum, London.

Nepenthes argentii (; after George Argent) is a highland Nepenthes pitcher plant native to Mount Guiting-Guiting on Sibuyan Island in the Philippines. It is possibly the smallest species in the genus and does not appear to have a climbing stage.


== Distribution ==
Nepenthes argentii inhabits subalpine shrubbery "with a smooth wind-clipped canopy 30 cm tall on an ultrabasic ridge". It grows at an elevation of 1,400–1,900 m.
On Mount Guiting-Guiting, N. argentii is sympatric with N. sibuyanensis at around 1,600 to 1,770 m. A taxon resembling N. alata grows on Mount Guiting-Guiting at lower elevations of 800 to 1,000 m; it was described as N. graciliflora by Adolph Daniel Edward Elmer. Other plant species endemic to the mountain include Lobelia proctorii and Rhododendron rousei.
Nepenthes argentii has no known natural hybrids, although it may hybridise with N. sibuyanensis. No forms or varieties have been described.


== References ==

Amoroso, V.B., L.D. Obsioma, J.B. Arlalejo, R.A. Aspiras, D.P. Capili, J.J.A. Polizon & E.B. Sumile 2009. Inventory and conservation of endangered, endemic and economically important flora of Hamiguitan Range, southern Philippines. Blumea 54(1–3): 71–76. doi:10.3767/000651909X474113
Amoroso, V.B. & R.A. Aspiras 2011. Hamiguitan Range: a sanctuary for native flora. Saudi Journal of Biological Sciences 18(1): 7–15. doi:10.1016/j.sjbs.2010.07.003
Co, L. & W. Suarez 2012. Nepenthaceae. Co's Digital Flora of the Philippines.
McPherson, S.R. & V.B. Amoroso 2011. Field Guide to the Pitcher Plants of the Philippines. Redfern Natural History Productions, Poole.
(in German) McPherson, S. & T. Gronemeyer 2008. Die Nepenthesarten der Philippinen: eine Fotodokumentation. Das Taublatt 60: 34–78.


== External links ==

Photographs of N. argentii at the Carnivorous Plant Photofinder
Borneo Exotics: Nepenthes argentii

Sir Ernest Roy Griffiths (8 July 1926 – 28 March 1994) was a British businessman. He was a director of Monsanto Europe (1964–68), and a director and deputy chairman of J. Sainsbury plc (1968–91).
He was engaged by Margaret Thatcher in 1983 to produce a report on the management of the National Health Service (NHS) and went on to be deputy chairman of the NHS Management Board (1986–89) and adviser to the government on the NHS (1986–94). He recommended, "The Secretary of State should set up, within DHSS and the existing statutory framework, a Health Services Supervisory Board and a full-time NHS Management Board" and that general managers should be introduced throughout the NHS.
In 1985, he was knighted for "services to the National Health Service". He produced a report on Care in the Community in 1987.


== References ==

Obituary in The Independent


== External links ==
Griffiths Report on the NHS (1983)

Rufford Colliery was a coal mine located near Rainworth, a village in Nottinghamshire, England.  Its first shafts were sunk in 1911. In February 1913, fourteen workers at the mine died when a water barrel "containing some tons of water was precipitated down the shaft on to some men who were working at the bottom" of one of shafts. The mine was operated by Bolsover Colliery Company from 1915 to 1946, the National Coal Board from 1947 to 1987, and the British Coal Corporation from 1987 to 1993. The mine ceased operation in 1993.


== After mining ==
A waste incinerator to be built on the site of the former colliery was proposed in 2006 by Veolia Ltd., the preferred contractor for Nottinghamshire County Council. Previously, the Forest Town area of Mansfield was considered as a possible location. The Rufford proposal met with hostile views from many local residents, concerned with the environmental impact and the increased traffic around the village.
A planning permission application was made to Nottinghamshire County Council and to the Environment Agency, whose consultation ended in May 2008.
Opposition was from several local environmental groups, led by People Against Incineration (PAIN), who obtained the support of botanist David Bellamy.
The application was heard by Nottinghamshire County Council and they approved it despite heavy local opposition, but a public inquiry was put in place involving then-minister Eric Pickles. This inquiry sat in October 2009, only to be adjourned until April 2010 and yet again to September 2010, owing to the possibility of there being nationally important nesting sites for nightjars and woodlarks, among other disputed matters.
On 27 May 2011 the Secretary of State formally turned down the planning application.
Veolia then launched an appeal against the Secretary of State's decision but this was eventually withdrawn in October 2012.
The incinerator had been expected to process 180,000 tonnes (180,000 long tons; 200,000 short tons) a year, with the company claiming it had the potential to create electricity for heating, power and lighting for 15,000 homes and businesses.
The Harworth Group and the Nottinghamshire Wildlife Trust have worked together on restoration of the site. In 2021, Nottinghamshire County Council commenced a project to reclaim the land and plant trees on the site of the former colliery.
A small 9 MWh nickel manganese cobalt battery system, used for grid augmentation from 2018, caught fire in 2026 due to an internal fault.


== Natural amenity ==
Rainworth Heath is an adjacent, wider area of natural heathland overlying sandstone strata, known as Bunter, under improvement. It is one of the last remaining areas of heathland in Nottinghamshire, and has areas of both dry and wet heath.


== References ==

Fagerlund is a surname. It may refer to:

Jonathan Fagerlund (born 1991), Swedish singer, sometimes known just by the mononym Jonathan
Lennart Fagerlund (born 1952), Swedish cyclist
Reino Fagerlund (1953–2019), Finnish judoka
Rickard Fagerlund (1937–2009), Swedish ice hockey player and manager
Rusameekae Fagerlund (born 1986), Thai-Senegalese actor, volleyball player, celebrity boxer
Sebastian Fagerlund (born 1972), Finnish composer

Calotes mystaceus, the Indo-Chinese forest lizard or blue crested lizard, is an agamid lizard found in China, South Asia and Southeast Asia.


== Description and identification ==

Physical Structure: Upper head-scales smooth or feebly keeled, imbricate, scarcely enlarged on supraorbital region; a few small spines on each side of the head above the tympanum; latter measuring at least half the diameter of the orbit. Gular sac small; gular scales feebly keeled, as large as dorsals. An oblique fold in front of the shoulder. Dorso-nuchal crest well developed in the male, composed of falciform spines directed backwards, the longest measuring the diameter of the orbit; it gradually decreases in height on the back, being reduced to a mere denticulation on the sacrum. 45-53 scales round the middle of the body; dorsal scales keeled, nearly twice as large as ventrals, all directed upwards and backwards; ventral scales strongly keeled. The adpressed hind limb reaches the tympanum or the posterior border of the orbit; fourth finger slightly longer than the third. Tail a little compressed, at the base with a slightly serrated upper ridge.
Color Pattern:  Background color grey to olive, frequently with large transverse red spots on the back; lips yellowish.

Length: Maximum: 42 cm. Common: 28 cm. (Snout to vent 9.5 cm).


== Distribution ==
Cambodia, China (Yunnan), India (Mizoram), Laos, Myanmar (Tenasserim to Naypyitaw = Naypyitaw, Mandalay, and Kachin State [26°00N, 97°30E]), Thailand (Chiang Saen) (north of the Isthmus of Kra), & Vietnam (South). It is also reported from Bangladesh (Chittagong Hill Tracts), adjacent to Mizoram province of India.


== Vernacular names ==
Bengali: নীল-মাথা গিরিগিটি, romanized: Neel-matha girigiti or নীলা রক্তচোষা (proposed)
Burmese: ပုတ်သင်ညို, romanized: Pote Thin Nyo
Chinese: 白唇树蜥
English: Blue-crested lizard, Indo-Chinese bloodsucker, Indo-Chinese forest lizard, White-lipped calotes
Hindi: girgit
Khmer: បង្គួយក្បាលខៀវខាងលិចទន្លេមេគង្គ
Lao: ກະປອມ, romanized: gabpom
Thai: กะปอม, romanized: gabpawm or กิ้งก่า, (ginggaa)


== Habitat ==
Terrestrial & arboreal; diurnal; naturally found in forest, but can be found in treed neighborhoods and city parks.


== Diet ==
Feeds on crickets, grasshoppers, moths, and other insects.


== Reproduction ==
The Indo-Chinese forest lizard is oviparous.


== Uses ==
No known practical uses. Plays an insectivorous role in its ecosystem.


== Threat to humans ==
Non-venomous and harmless to humans. Can give a painful bite if handled, but is not dangerous.


== References ==

Hallermann, J. 2005 Mit Hörnern, Kämmen und Gleithäuten - die bizarren Baumagamen. Reptilia (Münster) 10 (1): 18-25

Kutrasovka (Russian: Кутрасовка; Bashkir: Ҡутрас, Qutras) is a rural locality (a village) in Duvansky Selsoviet, Duvansky District, Bashkortostan, Russia. The population was 16 as of 2010. There is 1 street.


== Geography ==
Kutrasovka is located 35 km northwest of Mesyagutovo (the district's administrative centre) by road. Lemazy is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

George Walton Berry (February 18, 1900 – February 25, 1986) was a guard in the National Football League. He split his first season between the Racine Legion and the Hammond Pros. He played another season with the Hammond Pros before splitting the 1924 NFL season with Hammond and the Akron Pros. Berry played another year in Akron, during which time the team changed their name to the Indians, before splitting his final season with Akron and the Hammond Pros.


== References ==

The Methadones is the last album by punk rock band The Methadones. It was released on November 16, 2010, by Asian Man Records. The album contains five new songs, six songs from The Methadones/The Copyrights Split with the remaining songs coming from out of print singles.


== Track listing ==
"Murmurs in the Dark" – 2:39
"Undecided" – 2:40
"Arial" – 3:24
"April Rain" – 3:42
"Self Destruct" – 3:44
"3-2-1" – 1:20
"Imperfect World" – 1:25
"Under The Skyline" – 1:58
"On The Clock" – 1:58
"Easter Island" – 3:44
"What Do You Believe In?" – 2:23
"Showing Me The Way" – 3:02
"Gary Glitter" – 3:37
"Over The Moon" – 2:41
"I Believe" – 2:28
"Exit 17" – 2:34
Tracks 6–11 are from The Methadones/The Copyrights Split EP.
Track 12 is an outtake from the This Won't Hurt... session.
Tracks 13 and 14 are from the "Gary Glitter" single.
Tracks 15 and 16 are from the "Exit 17" single.


== Personnel ==
Dan Vapid – guitar, vocals
Mike Byrne — guitar, vocals
Sensitive Pete – bass, vocals
Mike Soucy – drums


== References ==


== External links ==
The Methadones  at Discogs (list of releases)

"The Other Side of Life" is a 1986 single written by Justin Hayward and first released by the Moody Blues in May 1986 as the title track on the album The Other Side of Life. It was released as a single in August 1986, the second single released from the album, the first being "Your Wildest Dreams". The single became a modest success in the United States, peaking at No. 11 and No. 18 on the adult contemporary and mainstream rock charts respectively. It also reached No. 58 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart.


== Lyrics and music ==
Hayward explained the origin of the song as follows:it came about because of where [producer Tony Visconti's] studio was, right in the middle of Soho in London and what we would do after we finished recording and [what was happening in] the clubs up and down Water Street. It's a part of London and a part of the world that I hadn't seen since I was 16 or 17 years old when I first came to London. So I wanted to express that in the song and it was a very odd kind of place and an odd sort of atmosphere, where Tony had his little haven of peace and serenity in the middle of this madness in the middle of London. That definitely came through in the song.
Music journalist Geoffrey Freakes said that "with the odd exception (the unnecessarily exaggerated drum fill before the chorus), the synthetic rhythms are more discreet and work for, rather than against, the song," resulting in "an atmospheric, radio-friendly song" with a "fresh, contemporary sound."  Freakes described Patrick Moraz' keyboard playing as "superbly tasteful" and Hayward's guitar solo as "scorching". "The Other Side of Life" was included in most of the Moody Blues' live shows after its release.


== Reception ==
Billboard said it is a "bluesy shuffle with a light, lyrical texture."  Cash Box praised the music and poetry and "riveting" vocal and said the tune is helped by "bright synthesizers."
In a contemporary review, Indiana-Penn critic Ward Allebach called "The Other Side of Life" "probably the strongest track have put out since their Long Distance Voyager album six years ago."  Allebach added that "The driving drum beat into the chorus adds to the ominous mood that anyone could feel." Daily Oklahoman critic Chuck Davis said it is of "epic proportion". Davis described the song's theme as being "inspecting the other side of life," saying that "We never really learn what that means, but, heck, the music is beautiful and Hayward's voice still sounds like a songbird." New Braunfels Herald-Zeitung critic Tom Labinski said that the song "features some great ensemble performances and Hayward's vocals sound better than they have in years."  Press and Sun-Bulletin critic Steve Hochman felt that the refrain "Baby, baby, baby let's investigate/The other side of life tonight" sounds "more like a pick-up line than a ticket to ride on the astral plane."
Midder critic Will Fenton rated "The Other Side of Life" as the Moody Blues' 5th greatest song, saying that "With its hauntingly beautiful melody and lyrics, the song speaks to the delicate balance between life and death." AllMusic critic Bruce Eder found it to be "more lugubrious than lyrical".


== Music video ==
A music video was produced for "The Other Side of Life", which received power rotation on MTV.


== Personnel ==
Justin Hayward – acoustic guitar, electric guitar, vocals
John Lodge – bass guitar
Patrick Moraz – keyboards
Graeme Edge – drums, percussion


== Chart history ==


== References ==


== External links ==
"The Other Side of Life" official music video (YouTube)

The Darkest Hour is a 2011 science fiction action film directed by Chris Gorak from a screenplay by Jon Spaihts and produced by Timur Bekmambetov. The film stars Emile Hirsch, Max Minghella, Olivia Thirlby, Rachael Taylor, and Joel Kinnaman as a group of people caught in an alien invasion. The film was released on December 22, 2011 in Russia by 20th Century Fox and on December 25, 2011, in the United States by Summit Entertainment, and grossed $65 million on a $35 million budget.


== Plot ==
Two Americans, Ben and Sean, travel to Moscow to sell a software application. After arriving, they find their business partner, Skyler, has betrayed them by already selling a knockoff. Disappointed, the pair goes to a nightclub, where they meet tourists Natalie and Anne. Suddenly, the electricity cuts off around the world and everyone heads outside. They witness balls of light fall from the sky and fade away. Invisible entities begin hunting and disintegrating people, plunging the entire world into chaos.
Ben, Sean, Natalie, Anne, and Skyler hide in the club's storeroom. After a few days, they emerge to find the city full of scorched cars and ruined buildings, but devoid of people. While they search for supplies in a Militsiya police car, an alien appears as an invisible, shifting spherical object. They hide as it moves closer, causing the car's lights and siren to turn on. Sean realizes that light bulbs and other electronics give the aliens away. The group takes shelter in a shopping mall. Looking for clothes, Sean and Natalie almost run into an alien, which cannot "see" them through a glass wall. Sean theorizes that the aliens can only sense their bodies' electrical charge, but not through glass or other insulators.
The group finds the US embassy gutted and lifeless. A logbook there reveals that the invasion is worldwide. They also discover a radio broadcasting a message in Russian. During their search, Skyler is killed by the aliens. Seeing a light in a nearby apartment tower, the survivors go to investigate. They find a young woman named Vika and a man named Sergei, an electrical engineer. Sergei has turned his apartment into a giant Faraday cage that hides everyone. He has also developed a microwave gun that weakens an alien's force field, rendering them visible and vulnerable. Vika and Sergei translate the radio message, which says that a nuclear submarine is waiting in the Moscow River to take survivors to safety, but will leave soon.
Vika, Natalie, and Anne gather supplies from other apartments. An alien senses them and gives chase. When they get to the apartment, the alien gets inside with them. Sergei shoots the alien with his gun, to no avail. The alien kills him while the others escape. Anne is also killed in the ensuing chase. To fight back, Natalie sets the apartment on fire and meets up with Vika.
The group later meets with Russian policemen who manage to wound an alien with conventional weapons. Sean collects a piece of the alien's body while the small police band agrees to help the group get to the submarine. As they move through the subway, an alien discovers them and kills Ben.
The survivors make it to a powerless patrol boat on the river and drift downstream to the waiting submarine. The boat nears the submarine, but runs aground. As they attempt to push free, an alien light beam causes the boat to capsize. Sean and the policemen swim towards the submarine, but upon reaching it, they discover Natalie is missing. Sean is determined to get her, possibly missing his chance to escape. The policemen agree to help him. The submarine crew, after expressing their doubts about the rescue, assist by building another microwave gun with stronger batteries.
Sean finds Natalie on a bus while the policemen and Vika start destroying aliens with the microwave guns. During the battle, Sean discovers the creatures' weakness when he throws a piece of the wounded alien he collected to another one, killing it. The two stop the bus and narrowly avoid a collision.
After returning to the submarine, the police team decides to stay and fight for the city. Sean, Natalie, and Vika plan to spread what they learned about the aliens to the rest of humanity. They learn that multiple resistance groups are fighting back all over the world.


== Cast ==
Emile Hirsch as Sean, Natalie's love interest
Olivia Thirlby as Natalie, Sean's love interest
Max Minghella as Ben, Sean's best friend
Rachael Taylor as Anne, Natalie's best friend
Joel Kinnaman as Skyler, the gunner and former business partner of Sean and Ben
Dato Bakhtadze as Sergei
Gosha Kutsenko as Matvei
Veronika Vernadskaya as Vika
Nikolay Efremov as Sasha
Pyotr Fyodorov as Anton Batkin
Georgiy Gromov as Boris
Artur Smolyaninov as Yuri
Anna Rudakova as Tess


== Production ==
The Darkest Hour was directed by Chris Gorak and produced by Timur Bekmambetov. While most films about alien invasions are centered in the United States or have an international scale, Bekmambetov's involvement ensured the premise to be an alien invasion from Russia's perspective.
With a production budget of $34.8 million, filming with 3D cameras began in Moscow on July 18, 2010. Production used resources from the Russian-based company Bazelevs, owned by Bekmambetov.
Filming was temporarily suspended three weeks later due to the 2010 Russian wildfires affecting the city and its vicinity with their smog. By September 2010, filming had resumed. In April 2011 the release date was changed to December 25 due to filming conflicts in Russia.


== Release ==
The Darkest Hour was released in the United States on December 25, 2011. The DVD release date was April 10, 2012, by Summit Entertainment. In the United Kingdom, it was released theatrically on January 13, 2012, and on DVD on May 21, 2012.


== Reception ==
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 12% of 60 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 3.2/10. The website's consensus reads: "Devoid of believable characters or convincing visual effects, this may be The Darkest Hour for the careers of all involved." Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 18 out of 100, based on 10 critics, indicating "overwhelming dislike". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of "C+" on an A+ to F scale.
The Hollywood Reporter criticized the film for having a "flatlining screenplay and the absence of even a single compelling character", and The New York Times wrote that it has "a depressing failure of imagination". Writing for Slant Magazine, Budd Wilkins called it "a dimwitted 3D sci-fi travesty" and wrote, "Indifferently structured, Jon Spaihts's lame-brained script knows no narrative contrivance it doesn't love and, what's worse, blows its expositional load in the first 10 minutes, bringing together a quintet of cardboard cutout leads."  Joe Leydon of Variety called it a "modestly inventive and involving variation on a standard-issue sci-fi doomsday scenario".


== References ==


== External links ==
The Darkest Hour at IMDb
The Darkest Hour at Box Office Mojo
The Darkest Hour at Metacritic

Tomasz Bajerski (born 9 September 1975 in Toruń, Poland) is a former motorcycle speedway rider from Poland. He earned three international caps for the Poland national speedway team.


== Career ==
Bajerski rode in the 2003 Speedway Grand Prix. He was won Team Polish Champion title in 2001 and Individual U-21 Polish Champion titles in 1993 and 1996.
In the British leagues, Exeter Falcons wanted to sign Bajerski in 1995 before he actually rode for King's Lynn Stars, Oxford Cheetahs and Peterborough Panthers in the British speedway leagues.


== Speedway Grand Prix results ==


== Results ==


=== World Championships ===
Individual World Championship (Speedway Grand Prix)
2003 - 15th place (51 points)
Individual U-21 World Championship
1992 -  Pfaffenhofen - 11th place (6 points)
1993 -  Pardubice - 7th place (8 points)
1994 -  Elgane - 5th place (11 points)
Team World Championship (Speedway World Cup)
2003 -  Vojens - 4th place (6 points)


=== European Championships ===
European Club Champions' Cup
2002 -  Pardubice - Bronze medal (7 points)


=== Polish competitions ===
Individual U-21 Polish Championship
1993 -  Toruń - Polish Champion
1996 -  Rzeszów - Polish Champion
Team Polish Championship
1992 - Bronze medal
1993 - Bronze medal
1994 - Bronze medal
1995 - Runner-up
1996 - Runner-up
2000 - Bronze medal
2001 - Polish Champion
2003 - Runner-up
Golden Helmet
1995 -  Wrocław - Bronze medal
1997 -  Wrocław - Runner-up
Silver Helmet U-21
1992 -  Grudziądz - Runner-up
Bronze Helmet U-19
1993 -  Tarnów - Runner-up


== References ==


== See also ==
Poland national speedway team
List of Speedway Grand Prix riders

Timothy Michael Krul (Dutch pronunciation: [ˈkrʏl]; born 3 April 1988) is a Dutch former professional footballer who played as a goalkeeper.
Krul's career began at youth clubs RAS and ADO Den Haag before moving to Newcastle United in 2005. At Newcastle, he made his debut in the UEFA Cup, securing a clean sheet in his first game. He signed a new four-year contract with Newcastle in 2007 and had loan spells at Falkirk and Carlisle United. His return to Newcastle saw him rise from backup to first-choice goalkeeper. He won awards and received a new contract. He had loans to Ajax and AZ Alkmaar in the Netherlands, providing him with first-team football as he recovered from injury. In 2017, Krul joined Brighton & Hove Albion on loan before signing permanently. His career continued at Norwich City, where he was named the club's Player of the Season and won the EFL Championship twice.
Krul represented the Netherlands at every level from 2002. He made his debut for the full national team in July 2011 and was part of the team that came third at the 2014 FIFA World Cup, playing in the quarter-final penalty shoot-out win against Costa Rica.


== Club career ==


=== Newcastle United ===
Krul began his career at hometown club RAS and later local Eredivisie club ADO Den Haag. He joined Premier League club Newcastle United in the summer of 2005 on a three-year deal after failing to sign professional terms. ADO demanded a compensation fee and objected to the FIFA Dispute Resolution Chamber (DRC). The DRC denied the claim and ADO took the case to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS). CAS ruled in February 2007 in favour of ADO, ordering Newcastle to pay €220,000 as compensation for the transfer.
Following an injury to Newcastle's first-choice goalkeeper Shay Given, Krul appeared on the bench as back-up to second-choice Steve Harper. Krul made his Newcastle debut in the UEFA Cup on 2 November 2006 against Palermo. His debut was well-received; he displayed his shot-stopping abilities, saving efforts from Giuseppe Biava and David Di Michele and recording a clean sheet in the process.
He was injured during the warm-up prior to the second leg tie against Palermo and then aggravated that injury in the warm-up before a game against Watford. He required two cartilage operations as a result, keeping him out of action for almost six months. He returned to action in April 2007.
On 13 June 2007, he signed a new four-year contract with Newcastle. In the same month, he was part of the Dutch Under-21 squad that won the European Championships and also qualified for the 2008 Summer Olympics.


==== Falkirk (loan) ====
On 3 August 2007, Krul joined Scottish side Falkirk on loan, originally until 1 January 2008 though it was later extended until the end of the season after a number of impressive performances. The following day he made his debut for Falkirk and kept a clean sheet as the team won 4–0 against Gretna. Falkirk initially wanted to sign him on a permanent deal but it was refused by Newcastle. 
In the two games immediately following his debut, he conceded four goals against Celtic and seven goals against Rangers at Ibrox. Krul was sent off for the first time in his professional career on 2 January 2008 after reacting badly to an opponent's challenge. Shortly afterwards, he suffered a dislocated shoulder during a Scottish Cup defeat against Aberdeen and missed the rest of the season.


==== Carlisle United (loan) ====
On 21 November 2008, Krul joined Carlisle United on a one-month loan from Newcastle to replace Ben Alnwick, who had rejoined Tottenham Hotspur. The loan deal was extended for a further month in December with Krul returning to Newcastle in January.


=== Return to Newcastle ===

Krul returned to Newcastle as backup to first choice Steve Harper. He made his senior league debut on 8 August 2009 in the opening Football League Championship game of the season away to West Bromwich Albion, coming on as a half time substitute for the injured Harper. Following this match, The Guardian called him "an excellent reserve goalkeeper". He later played the full Football League Cup match against Huddersfield Town on 26 August 2009, which Newcastle won 4–3. Krul also started the 2–0 League Cup defeat to Peterborough. Against Swansea City on 28 November, he again came on to replace the injured Steve Harper. On 2 January, he played in the FA Cup Third Round tie against Plymouth Argyle, the game ending 0–0. He then played in the replay at St James' Park on 13 January, a 3–0 victory. Krul started his first league game for Newcastle on 2 May 2010, the last day of the Championship campaign, against Queens Park Rangers at Loftus Road and kept a clean sheet. In July 2010, Krul signed a new four-year contract with Newcastle.
Krul made his Premier League debut for Newcastle on 18 September 2010 against Everton at Goodison Park, coming on as a substitute in the 35th minute for the injured Steve Harper in a match that ended in a 1–0 win for the Magpies. He made his first Premier League start on 26 September against Stoke City at St James' Park. He then played against Manchester City in a 2–1 loss, Wigan Athletic in a 2–2 draw and in the 2–1 away win to West Ham United, before starting in his first Tyne-Wear derby, Newcastle winning 5–1, and a 1–0 away win at Arsenal a week later.
Following his good performances, Alan Pardew gave him more chances. He eventually became first choice and Harper was sent on loan to Brighton & Hove Albion. He started the 2011–12 season well, keeping clean sheets in the first two matches of the season against Arsenal and Sunderland. On 3 December 2011, Krul made his 50th Newcastle appearance against Chelsea. He saved a Frank Lampard penalty and made several other impressive saves, although Newcastle went on to lose the game 3–0. On 3 March 2012, Krul signed a new five-year contract at Newcastle United. Krul then went on to play in the away game against Arsenal, which Newcastle lost 2–1. During the match, fellow Dutchman Robin van Persie accused Krul of wasting time throughout the match and taunted Krul after the match had ended. The row continued into the tunnel and the two players had to be separated. Although he received criticism from Arsenal player Jack Wilshere, teammate James Perch defended Krul, believing van Persie "out of order". At the end of the season, Krul received Toon Talk's Newcastle United Player of the Year award.

In the summer before the 2012–13 Premier League, Krul was given the number 1 jersey, with Steve Harper receiving number 37. Krul started the first three matches of the season before suffering an elbow injury whilst on international duty. After seven weeks off, Krul returned to training. Krul made his return in the Tyne–Wear derby on 21 October 2012, a 1–1 draw. He injured his ankle during a Europa League match in the Round of 32 against Ukrainian side Metalist Kharkiv which ruled him out for five weeks. In the Tyne–Wear derby on 14 April 2013, Krul suffered a dislocated shoulder on 57th minutes after he landed awkwardly after punching away an Adam Johnson free-kick. After surgery on his dislocated shoulder, Krul was ruled out for the rest of the 2012–13 season.
Ahead of the 2013–14 season, Krul made his first appearance since his ankle injury in a friendly match against Rangers. In November, Krul made some impressive displays, conceding just two goals and keeping clean sheets against Tottenham, where he made a total of 14 saves during the match), and Chelsea. His impressive displays earned him November's Premier League Player of the Month. Krul's performance was praised by Newcastle United goalkeeping legend Pavel Srníček and manager Alan Pardew.
Krul sustained an ankle injury in training before Newcastle's match with West Ham United and was ruled out for up to six weeks with the injury. Krul returned in his side's 2–0 defeat to Chelsea.


==== Return to the Netherlands ====
On 25 August 2016, Krul signed a one-year contract extension at Newcastle United before joining Ajax on a season-long loan deal to provide him with top-tier first-team football as he continued his recovery from injury. That deal was cut short, Krul only playing six games for the club's reserve side, and, in January 2017, he joined fellow Eredivisie side AZ Alkmaar on loan for the rest of the season.


=== Brighton & Hove Albion ===
On 31 August 2017, Krul signed for Premier League club Brighton & Hove Albion on a season-long loan, reuniting him with former Newcastle manager Chris Hughton. On 19 September, he made his debut for the club in an EFL Cup third round tie against AFC Bournemouth. The following day, he signed a permanent deal with Brighton, ending his twelve-year association with Newcastle. At the end of the season, Krul left the club.


=== Norwich City ===
Krul signed for Championship club Norwich City on 24 July 2018 on a two-year contract. He signed a new three-year contract in June 2019. Krul was named Norwich City's Player of the Season in the club's 2019–20 campaign, making him only the fifth ever different goalkeeper to win the Barry Butler memorial trophy.
Krul remained Norwich's starting keeper for the 2020–21 season. He would suffer a hamstring injury in November in a game against Stoke City, being replaced by Michael McGovern. He proceeded to miss a number of games between then and the end of January, with McGovern or Daniel Barden deputising, but eventually regained his place as Norwich won the Championship and promotion back to the Premier League.
Krul was once again the first choice goalkeeper for the 2021–22 season but Norwich now had Angus Gunn as an alternative. After a run of poor results, Krul was absent from two games in December with Gunn played instead. Krul would regain his place for the next two games, only to suffer a late injury in a game against Everton. He would be out of the side until March, retaining his place as Norwich were relegated back to the Championship at the first attempt.
The following season would again see Krul start as first choice but his days as Norwich's No.1 were drawing to an end. Following a 3–2 home defeat by Preston North End, Krul was replaced by Gunn in the starting line-up. He was restored to the side by new manager David Wagner for his first game in charge, ironically against Preston, with Norwich winning the game 4–0. This was to be short-lived however, and Krul made his final appearance for Norwich two games later, in a 3–0 defeat to Burnley.


=== Luton Town ===
On 17 August 2023, Krul signed for newly promoted Premier League club Luton Town with an undisclosed contract length. On 9 May 2025, the club announced Krul would be released in June when his contract expired.
On 23 September 2025, Krul officially announced his retirement from professional football at the age of 37.


== International career ==

Krul represented the Netherlands national team at U17 level at the 2005 FIFA U-17 World Cup in Peru. He represented the U21s at the 2008 Toulon Tournament and was a regular in the side for the 2011 European Under-21 Championship qualifying campaign.
On 4 June 2011, Krul made the starting eleven for the Netherlands in a friendly against Brazil, his first cap at senior level. He went on to keep a clean sheet, pulling off a string of decent saves in a 0–0 draw. He played his second match for the international team four days later against Uruguay in a 3–4 penalty shoot-out loss, the match having finished 1–1 after 90 minutes. He was called up to the Netherlands UEFA Euro 2012 squad but did not make any appearances. In new coach Louis van Gaal's first competitive game in charge against Turkey in Amsterdam, Krul was selected as starting goalkeeper, keeping a clean sheet in a 2–0 win for the Oranje.

In June 2014, Krul was included in the Netherlands' squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil. In the quarter-final against Costa Rica, he was brought on by Louis van Gaal as a 120th-minute substitute for the penalty shootout. He saved two of the five penalties he faced as the Netherlands won 4–3. This was the first time in the history of the World Cup that a goalkeeper was sent on as a substitute solely for a penalty shoot-out.


== Personal life ==
In September 2025, he graduated in the inaugural cohort of students from the PFA Business School, with an award from the University of Portsmouth.


== Career statistics ==


=== Club ===


=== International ===


== Honours ==
Norwich City

EFL Championship: 2018–19, 2020–21
Netherlands U17

UEFA European Under-17 Championship runner-up: 2005
FIFA U-17 World Championship third place: 2005
Netherlands U21

UEFA European Under-21 Championship: 2007
Netherlands

FIFA World Cup third place: 2014
Individual

Newcastle United Player of the Year: 2011–12
Premier League Player of the Month: November 2013
Norwich City Player of the Season: 2019–20
PFA Team of the Year: 2020–21 Championship


== References ==


== External links ==

Tim Krul at Premier League (archived)
Tim Krul at Soccerbase 
Netherlands U17 stats at OnsOranje (archived 20 October 2013)
Netherlands U19 stats at OnsOranje (archived 20 October 2013)
Netherlands U21 stats at OnsOranje (archived 20 October 2013)

Song of Old Wyoming is a 1945 American Western film directed by Robert Emmett Tansey, written by Frances Kavanaugh from a story by Tansey.  It was shot in Cinecolor and released by Producers Releasing Corporation. Western star Lash LaRue debuted in this film playing the Cheyenne Kid (Eddie Dean's sidekick in the film).


== Plot ==
The film's story concerns Wyoming statehood, or "the fight of the lawless crowd to keep the territory from becoming a state and the determined fight of the decent element" to achieve statehood, with "action, romance and thrills" in a scenic Western setting.


== Cast ==
Eddie Dean as Eddie
Sarah Padden as Kate 'Ma' Conway
Ian Keith as Lee Landow
Lash LaRue as Cheyenne Kid (billed as Al LaRue)
Jennifer Holt as Vicky Conway, adopted
Emmett Lynn as Uncle Ezra
Robert Barron as Jesse Dixon
Gene Alsace as Henchman Ringo
Don Williams as Cowhand Slim – Musician
Johnny Carpenter as Cowhand Buck
Horace Murphy as Editor Timothy Meeks


== Soundtrack ==
Eddie Dean – "Hills of Old Wyoming" (Written by Ralph Rainger and Leo Robin)
Eddie Dean – "My Herdin' Song" (Written by Eddie Dean and Milt Mabie)
Eddie Dean – "Wild Prairie Rose" (Written by Eddie Dean and Carl Hoefle)


== Reception ==
Wanda Hale of the New York Daily News called Song of Old Wyoming "a good, lusty, old-fashioned Western melodrama enhanced by soft, natural-color photography."


== References ==


== External links ==

Song of Old Wyoming at IMDb

Kassegaran Madrasa (Persian: مدرسه کاسه گران) is a historical madrasa in Isfahan, Iran. It belongs to the era of the Safavid King Suleiman. According to the thuluth inscription above its portal, it was built in 1694 by the order and under supervision of Amir Mohammad Mehdi Hakimolmolk Ardestani.


== References ==

The 1999 Japan Football League (Japanese: 第1回日本フットボールリーグ, Hepburn: Dai Ikkai Nihon Futtobōru Rīgu) was the first season of the Japan Football League, the third tier of the Japanese football league system.


== Overview ==

After the dissolution of former Japan Football League in order to form J. League Division 2, the new Japan Football League was established from this season as the nationwide top division for amateur clubs. It was originally planned to have 8 clubs, including seven former JFL clubs and Yokogawa Electric, promoted from Kantō Soccer League, one of nine Japanese Regional Leagues. But it eventually became nine-club structure by accepting Yokohama FC, which was established by supporters of defunct Yokohama Flügels, as an associate member as an extralegal measures. Nine clubs played 24 matches each, in triple round-robin format. Yokohama F.C. won the championship but under the conditions of their associate membership were not eligible to promotion and had to stay in JFL for the next year.


== Table ==


== Results ==
Round 1

Round 2

Round 3


== Top scorers ==


== Attendances ==


== Promotion and relegation ==
No relegation has occurred because the league was expanding to 12 teams. At the end of the season, the winner and runner-up of the Regional League promotion series, ALO's Hokuriku and Tochigi SC were promoted automatically. In addition, FC Kyoken and Shizuoka Sangyo University were included by JFA and College FA recommendations.

Tandzut (Armenian: Տանձուտ formerly, Armutlu) is a village in the Armavir Province of Armenia.


== See also ==
Armavir Province


== References ==

Tandzut, Armavir at GEOnet Names Server
World Gazeteer: Armenia – World-Gazetteer.com
Report of the results of the 2001 Armenian Census, Statistical Committee of Armenia

Bitter's Kiss is an indie pop project from Weehawken, New Jersey led by musician Chloe Baker. She is best known for her singles No One Will and Love Won't Make You Cry.


== Career ==
Bitter's Kiss started as a vehicle for singer/songwriter Chloe Baker to showcase her talents alongside her father. Chloe grew up in a home filled with music, with a father who maintained a studio, a guitar collection and a band. She started Bitter's Kiss as a way to document her world. Baker has publicly discussed many of her songs meanings and how they relate to her own life. Having started the project while attending High Tech, an arts academy in North Bergen, her father helped her to access the necessary resources to record and release her self-titled debut in March 2015. It rapidly received massive critical acclaim.
The project has been noted for its heavy use of music videos and other visual content. Baker released her first music video, for the song, The Rope, in March 2015. By the end of the year she had gone on to make videos for Love Won't Make You Cry and No One Will. Love Won't Make You Cry rapidly received more than 100,000 views on YouTube, meanwhile No One Will, which was shot on location in Ireland, garnered hundreds of thousands of views on Facebook. Music Times wrote of the video for No One Will, "Clearly, "No One Will" is not only the song title, but the message of the visuals featured in this video." Meanwhile, Wild Honey Pie claimed, "If you’ve ever felt the stress and depressing reality of being a teen in the suburbs, then you’ll be able to relate to Bitter's Kiss and her melancholic single “The Rope.” She was also featured on the Bolier & Relondo track Lost & Found and starred in the music video which rapidly cleared a million views on YouTube. Lost & Found reached No. 4 on the Beatport Top House Charts and #10 on the Beatport Top 100 Charts.


== Critical reception ==
While Bitter's Kiss received generally positive reviews, several had a more lukewarm take on her debut release and suggested that her youth may have played a factor in her artistic development. This was a sentiment popularized by The Big Takeover who claimed, "It’s possible to say it’s all the result of a little needed experience, but that’s what makes it so fascinating of a document, like a snapshot of a specific time and place we all go through."
Major media outlets seemed largely positive in their reception of her debut. Huffington Post wrote of her record, "Just like the teenage psyche, many of Chloe’s songs are melancholic yet hopeful, also a reflection of the duality of mankind. Though young in age, there is a mature sophistication to her lyrics that combine the struggles of young adulthood with an ageless wisdom." Young Hollywood meanwhile raved about her potential, writing, "To say that Chloe is talented is a vast understatement; even if she hadn’t written the music, her vocals alone are plenty to be a successful artist, but both of those together mean she’s probably just scratching the surface."
Some publications did not embrace Bitter's Kiss quite as much though, Elmore Magazine said of the album, "it’s a little too safe, stylistically" Contactmusic.com echoed this, giving the record a 3.5/5 rating and stating, "It will be interesting to see if she develops it or allows it to stagnate."


== Discography ==
Bitter's Kiss (2015)


== References ==

De Morbis Artificum Diatriba (English: Discourse on the Diseases of Workers) is the first book written specifically about occupational diseases and work-related risk prevention. Written in Latin by Italian physician Bernardino Ramazzini (1633–1714), it is a founding work of occupational medicine and remains one of its most seminal, continuing to influence the field to this day. It was first published in Modena in 1700 while Ramazzini was a professor of Practical Medicine at the University of Padua; its second, definitive edition was printed in Padua in 1713 while he was a professor of Theoretical Medicine at the university.
For this work, Ramazzini is considered the father of occupational medicine. The book is also a seminal work in the field of occupational health. Cited by Adam Smith, Karl Marx, and Cotton Mather, it has been acknowledged or quoted directly in virtually all notable works on occupational medicine of the 19th and 20th centuries.
It describes between 53 and 69 different professions; includes analytical and methodological approaches to diagnose and prevent diseases associated with them; and details health hazards posed by chemicals, dust, metals, repetitive or violent motions, odd postures, and other disease-causative agents encountered by workers in them.
The breadth of occupations Ramazzini covers is so great that there remains even today a high chance that one might inadvertently address an occupation-related illness already touch on by Ramazzini. A paper discussing grain itch indicated that the book described the same disorder, and it was proposed that farmer's lung should be renamed Ramazzini's disease.


== Contents ==
The book describes Ramazzini's observations made as a doctor and as an investigator of the territory, combining clinical remarks of the patient-worker with the description of working conditions and techniques, and related risks to health. In 54 chapters the book reports health risks faced by workers in more than one hundred occupations and currently it is considered the first textbook of occupational medicine and a precursor of occupational health.
The Diatriba describes specific disorders in individuals and in groups of workers carrying out the same activity. Whereas some clinical pictures deserve only a historical interest, several disorders represent even today a health problem for specific groups of workers. Ramazzini proposed several precautions for the prevention of diseases whose basic idea, mostly based on common sense, was correctly conceived.


=== Musculoskeletal disorders ===

Much space is dedicated to the discussion of musculoskeletal disorders in workers employed in many jobs. Ramazzini understood that different morbid pictures were associated with postures, movement repetition, weight lifting, muscular load, which today define the ergonomic factors. The Diatriba lists 26 different occupations, from brick-makers to sailors and from printers to writers and notaries, affected by all kinds of musculoskeletal disorders.


=== Stress-related health disorders ===
Ramazzini identified stress-related health disorders associated with circumstances involving high job demands and repetitive job activity. In addition to the continuous sitting responsible for sedentariness issues, he detected in accounting clerks the psychological stress to avoid mistakes or cause loss to their employers and keenly noted that an intense application of the mind harmed those workers.


=== Breast cancer in nuns ===
Ramazzini described consumptive affections mostly in heavy occupations such as miners. However, he also made an explicit reference to tumors. In fact, he reported that breast cancers were very often found in nuns’ breasts more than in any other women. He explained that it might be due to their celibate life. This remark anticipated the observation between nulliparity and hormonal status of women by centuries. For this remark, Ramazzini has been acknowledged as a precursor in the search for the prevention of neoplastic diseases.


=== Sensory system diseases and other disorders ===
He also observed diseases associated with the sensory system such as visual fatigue problems in people who did small objects, deafness among workers exposed to noise, and voice disorders and dysphonia involving intense voice exercise.
The Diatriba reports morbid forms such as dust-related lung problems and serious neurological disorders associated with lead and mercury exposure. It reports still existing clinical pictures and important widespread health problems: bronchopulmonary pictures such as asthma in millers and hypersensitivity pneumonitis, of which he understood the pathophysiological mechanisms. The book describes risks from excessive exposure to heat and sunlight and health troubles arising from nightwork. It was the first book to report headaches resulting from exposure to chemical substances.


=== Environmental pollution ===
The Diatriba reports an episode of chemical pollution associated with pathological pictures affecting the inhabitants who lived near a polluting site thus revealing that Ramazzini’s attention was not limited to the working environment but extended to the context of life. The episode is one of the earliest examples of chemical pollution associated with an increase in disease. Reporting of unexpected health damages represented yesterday and represents today, an alarm signal of a potential environmental problem of interest for public health. These observations have been valued as they anticipated modern epidemiological tools in work and living environments.


=== Inequalities and vulnerability ===
Much attention was given to inequality and above all to the vulnerability that today remains a topic of great concern. He described health-related problems in ethnic minorities of that time and women. Women were usually employed in different occupations entailing exposure to dangerous materials and ergonomically challenging works, in agriculture and transport of stones and bricks, although they were committed to the production of commodities such as pasta, bread and clothing items.


=== Risk prevention and health protection ===

The Diatriba goes well beyond the identification of health risks in workplaces and description of the work-related diseases and also deals with risk communication, risk prevention and health promotion. It foreshadowed many interventions that are well established today: removing the polluted air emitted from the minerals and carrying out the work in spacious places, interrupting the prolonged posture, reducing the working time to limit the exposure to hazards, using personal protective tools.
His main precept was given in 1711 in his Oratio xiii. De contagiosa epidemia. On that occasion, he pronounced the well-known precept "far better to prevent than to cure". This expression evokes the phrase he used some years later in the dissertation on nuns' health that appeared in the 1713 edition of the Diatriba. He explained, with other words, the idea already expressed earlier, preaching this new message fully and with courageous perseverance.


== Editions and translations ==
Several editions and translations of the Diatriba have been published since its first edition in 1700 and its second in 1713. It was translated into Italian, English, French, Dutch, and German in the 18th century, and further translations in Italian, French, and German were published in the 19th century. It was published in Japanese, Russian, and Swedish in the 20th century. The Japanese translation was published as an eleven-part series from January 1962 through February 1963, with the final version coming out in 1979. The Swedish translation appeared in 1991, its publication supported by the Swedish Work Environment Fund.
Wilmer Cave Wright's 1940 English translation of the 1713 edition, published by the University of Chicago Press, helped rekindle interest in the book. During her tenure at Bryn Mawr College, she was induced to produce the translation by Haven Emerson; it was the second book for the New York Academy of Medicine's History of Medicine Series, the first being Wright's translation of one of Girolamo Fracastoro's works.
Just 300 copies of this edition were produced, and it was out of print by 1942. Despite Emerson having implored them to do so in 1949, the New York Academy of Medicine would not reprint it until 1964, with some of its extant copies, of which 3,000 were produced in total, still being held by them as of 1996.
Arguably the greatest edition of the book was published in 1983 by Gryphon Editions as part of their Classics of Medicine Library series, putting Ramazzini in the company of others such as William Osler, William Harvey, Rudolf Virchow, Thomas Sydenham, Joseph Lister, Harvey Cushing, and Ignaz Semmelweis.
A 1993 edition, based on Wright's translation, was published in Thunder Bay, Canada, by OH&S Press.


== Legacy ==
While introducing a resolution to amend the U.S. Code in 1979 during the 96th United States Congress, George Miller began with a quote from the book: "Tis a sordid profit that's accompanied by the destruction of health."
A rare copy of the first edition can be found on display in Ramazzini Hall, a section of the University of Occupational and Environmental Health in Kitakyushu, Japan.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Bibliography ==


== External links ==
De Morbis Artificum Diatriba (1703) (in Latin) at the Internet Archive
De Morbis Artificum Diatriba (1743) (in Latin) at HathiTrust

"It's Gonna Be Me" is a 2000 single by NSYNC.
It's Gonna Be Me may also refer to:

"It's Gonna Be Me", a song by Peter Green from White Sky (1982)
"It's Gonna Be Me", a 1974 song by David Bowie, first released on the 1991 reissue of Young Americans
"It's Gonna Be Me", a song by Merle Haggard from I Am What I Am (2010)

An engineering change order (ECO), also called an engineering change notice (ECN), engineering change (EC), or engineering release notice (ERN), is an artifact used to implement changes to components or end products. The ECO is utilized to control and coordinate changes to product designs that evolve over time.  
The need for an engineering change may be triggered by a number of events and varies by industry. Typical engineering change categories are:

Product evolution - a change resulting in applying an existing part to a new application and maintaining backwards compatibility
Cost reduction - a change resulting in lower overall cost to produce or maintain
Product performance - a change that improves the capabilities of the item
Safety - a change required to enhance the safety to those using or interacting with the item


== Usage and contents ==

An ECO is defined as "[A] document approved by the design activity that describes and authorizes the implementation of an engineering change to the product and its approved configuration documentation".
In product development the need for change is caused by:

Correction of a design error that doesn't become evident until testing and modeling, or customer use reveals it.
A change in the customers' requirements necessitating the redesign of part of the product
A change in material or manufacturing method. This can be caused by a lack of material availability, a change in vendor, or to compensate for a design error.
An ECO must contain at least this information:

Identification of what needs to be changed. This should include the part number and name of the component and reference to the drawings that show the component in detail or assembly.
Reason(s) for the change.
Description of the change. This includes a drawing of the component before and after the change. Generally, these drawings are only of the detail affected by the change.
List of documents and departments affected by the change. The most important part of making a change is to see that all pertinent groups are notified and all documents updated.
Approval of the change. As with the detail and assembly drawings, the changes must be approved only by those individuals that are authorized to approve such a document. Typically, a number of individuals approve changes related to their own speciality with a final overall approval from management.
Instruction about when to introduce the change—immediately (scrapping current inventory), during the next production run, or at some other milestone.


== Chip design ==
In chip design, ECO is the process of inserting a logic change directly into the netlist after it has already been processed by an automatic tool. Before the chip masks are made, ECOs are usually done to save time, by avoiding the need for full ASIC logic synthesis, technology mapping, place, route, layout extraction, and timing verification. EDA tools are often built with incremental modes of operation to facilitate this type of ECO.
After masks have been made, ECOs may be done to save money. If a change can be implemented by modifying only a few of the layers (typically metal) then the cost is much less than it would be if the design was re-built from scratch. This is because starting the process from the beginning will almost always require new photomasks for all layers, and each of the 20 or so masks in a modern semiconductor fabrication process is quite expensive. A change implemented by modifying only a few layers is typically called a metal-mask ECO or a post-mask ECO. Designers often sprinkle a design with unused logic gates, and EDA tools have specialized commands, to make this process easier.
One of the most common ECOs in ASIC design is the gate-level netlist ECO. In this flow, engineers manually (and often tediously) hand-edit the gate-level netlist, instead of re-running logic synthesis. The netlist files have to be searched for the logic affected by the change, the files need to be edited to implement the changes up and down the hierarchy, and the changes need to be tracked and verified to make sure exactly what needs to change gets changed and nothing more. This is a very time and resource-intensive process that is easily subject to errors. Therefore formal equivalence checking is normally used after ECOs to ensure the revised implementation matches the revised specification.
With time-to-market pressures and rising mask costs in the semiconductor industry, several electronic design automation (EDA) companies are beginning to bring more automation into the ECO implementation process. Most popular place and route products have some level of built-in ECO routing to help with implementing physical-level ECOs. Cadence Design Systems has recently announced a product called conformal ECO designer, that automates the creation of functional ECOs, usually the most tedious process in implementing an ECO. It uses formal equivalence checking and logic synthesis techniques to produce a gate-level ECO netlist based on the changed RTL. Synopsys in the past had a product called ECO compiler that is now defunct. Synopsys now has primetime-ECO for dealing with ECOs. Tweaker-F1 & Tweaker-T1 have also come into the limelight in the recent DAC-2012 for their ECO algorithms.


== Telecommunications industry ==
The telecommunications industry has a formal process that takes elements of the ECO and other considerations and combines them into the "product change notice" (PCN). After telecommunications products have been generally available and/or in service for a period of time, it often becomes necessary for suppliers to introduce changes to those products. As a result of implementing these changes – regardless of who performs the actual work – the telecommunications carriers are significantly impacted with respect to labor and resources, etc. Thus, it is imperative that changes to these products are accurately reported and tracked through completion, according to the needs and requirements of the carriers.
The term "product change" includes changes to hardware, software, and firmware that occur over the entire life of a product. Product changes include those considered reportable and non-reportable. These changes may be applied by a supplier, a customer, or a contractor retained by the customer, depending on negotiated agreements. Fundamentally, the customer's goal is to ensure there is a process by which there is accurate and efficient tracking and reporting of changes to products. 
Changes are considered reportable when they affect the performance or life span of a product. Such changes include any that affect the form, fit, function, or the product technical specification (i.e., documentation) of the product. The desire for supplier or customer traceability may result in a reportable change.
The entire PCN process is documented in GR-209, Issue 6, Generic Requirements for Product Change Notices (PCNs).


== References ==

David DePoe (born 1944) is a community activist and retired teacher. He is best known for his activities in the late 1960s as an unofficial leader of the Yorkville hippies, founder of the Diggers movement in Yorkville and for staging protests and a sit-in at the Toronto city council chambers in 1967 in an ultimately unsuccessful bid to make Yorkville a pedestrian-only street.
David DePoe was born in Toronto in 1944 and is the son of well-known CBC journalist Norman DePoe and Madeline DePoe. He joined the Pearson government initiative, the Company of Young Canadians (CYC) project, in 1966. In 1967, under guidance from the CYC, he founded the Diggers in the Yorkville neighbourhood of Toronto. At this time Yorkville was the hippie capital of Canada and local politicians, the police force and residents were concerned over the developing youth subculture. The initiative was inspired by the Diggers theatre group that was active in the Haight-Ashbury area of San Francisco. The Digger group in Yorkville was concerned with community action and provided support to youth in need of food and shelter.
DePoe's activities came to national attention in 1967 prompting the Star Weekly to publish a picture of him on the cover of an issue in September 1967 with the headline "SUPER HIPPIE," a title he himself disdained. He was known as the unofficial spokesperson for Yorkville through a number of disputes with Toronto city council over traffic in Yorkville, most famously with former mayor and councillor Allan A. Lamport. DePoe led a series of sit-ins throughout the city during the period of August 17 to August 24, 1967, to try to persuade the city to close Yorkville Avenue to vehicle traffic and create a pedestrian mall as Yorkville was the site of numerous coffee houses, cafes, and shops. Traffic had become a problem as people came to the cruise the strip and gawk at the hippies. The city had grown frustrated with the traffic and a perceived problem with drugs and vagrancy. On August 17 David DePoe and the Diggers were invited to a "Talk-in" with Allan Lamport. The talks did not go well and on August 20 a sit-in was held in the middle of Yorkville Avenue. After a number of arrests the large group moved to Queen's Park and finally, on August 23 a "sleep-in" took place in front of Toronto's City Hall. Ultimately these efforts were not successful. The protests were documented by the National Film Board of Canada in the films Flowers on a One-Way Street (1967), directed by Robin Spry and Mort Ransen's Christopher's Movie Matinee (1968). In the latter film a group of high school aged students making a film about Toronto youth become indirectly involved in the Yorkville protests. Their production is shut down when their participation in a 'Film-in' is (erroneously) suspected to have contributed to the volatility of the situation. A  follow up film, The Summer of '67 (1994), revisited key personalities in the two prior films nearly thirty years after the events.


== References ==


== External links ==
Harbord Village Residents' Association. "Harbord Village Oral History Project". Retrieved 23 August 2016. Collection of interviews about local landmarks. David DePoe discusses the Free Times Cafe

The 1907 Mississippi gubernatorial election took place on November 5, 1907, in order to elect the Governor of Mississippi. Incumbent Democrat James K. Vardaman was term-limited, and could not run for reelection to a second term.


== Democratic primary ==
The Democratic primary election was held on August 1, 1907, with the runoff held on August 22, 1907.


=== Results ===


== General election ==
In the general election, Democratic candidate Edmond Noel, a former state senator, ran unopposed.


=== Results ===


== References ==

Ashbourne railway station formerly served the town of  Ashbourne in Derbyshire. There have been two stations in the town. The first, opened in 1852, was operated by the North Staffordshire Railway (NSR); it was replaced in 1899 by a station at a new location, jointly operated by the NSR and the London and North Western Railway (LNWR). In 1923 the station passed into the ownership of the London, Midland and Scottish Railway and in 1948 that of the London Midland Region of British Railways. It was finally closed to all traffic in 1963 (regular passenger services having been withdrawn in 1954).


== History ==
The first station was opened in 1852 by the North Staffordshire Railway on its branch from Rocester on its Churnet Valley line. This station was located on Clifton Road at grid reference SK 176 462 and had a single platform.
Most services ran to Uttoxeter although the NSR made arrangements with both the LNWR and the Midland Railway (MR) for services to London.  From the 1880s the MR ran a direct through carriage each day from Ashbourne to St Pancras and return while in the 1890s the LNWR ran several trains per day to Nuneaton where passengers could make a single change of journey to Euston.
In 1861 the LNWR took over the Cromford and High Peak Railway and started consideration of an extension of the line from Parsley Hay to Ashbourne which once connected to the NSR line would give the LNWR a direct line between Buxton and London to rival the MR service.
The London and North Western Railway Act 1890 (53 & 54 Vict. c. cliv) which received Royal assent on 4 August 1890 gave the LNWR approval to construct a line from Parsley Hay to Ashbourne and on the same day the NSR and the LNWR were given permission to construct a new joint station at Ashbourne.
It was not until 1898 that construction of the new station began at grid reference SK 178 464 approximately 14 chains (280 m) to the north east of the NSR station which became a goods depot.  The new station opened on 4 August 1899.  Unlike the earlier station, which had been of brick and stone, the new one was timber construction throughout to a standard LNWR design.  Four platforms were provided, two through platforms and two bay platforms.  Both bays were for trains arriving and departing in the direction of Uttoxeter. The station was built on a curve and shelter was provided by awnings which extended over the entrance.
The LNWR service initially comprised four trains per day, each way, between Buxton and Ashbourne and a single direct train from Buxton to London each way.  This level of local passenger service continued throughout the joint ownership period and into LMS and BR days with most services being Buxton–Ashbourne and Ashbourne–Uttoxeter with only a small number being Buxton–Uttoxeter services.
From Ashbourne towards Thorpe Cloud the line climbed steeply through Ashbourne Tunnel, at 1 in 59.  Southwards towards Clifton Mayfield the terrain was more gentle, following the valley of the River Dove.
After the move to a joint station, the line became part of the London, Midland and Scottish Railway during the Grouping of 1923. The station then passed on to the London Midland Region of British Railways on nationalisation in 1948.
From 1910, Nestle had a creamery in the town, which for a period was contracted to produce Carnation condensed milk. The factory had its own private sidings connected to the station's goods yard, which allowed milk trains to access the facility, and distribute product as far south as London.
It was closed to regular passenger traffic in 1954 by the British Transport Commission although excursions continued until 1963. Freight continued until October of that year, with the track finally being lifted in 1964.


== Preservation ==
The track bed from Ashbourne to Parsley Hay was acquired by Derbyshire County Council and the Peak National Park in 1968 for a cycle and walking route. This, the Tissington Trail, was one of the first of such ventures in the country. Later, Ashbourne Tunnel was acquired by Sustrans.
The former railway station site is now a car park for Ashbourne's Leisure Centre and the site of the original station and goods yard is now occupied by the new St.Oswald's Hospital. The Grade II-listed goods shed is still standing and is currently occupied by a steel merchant. A vestige of the station forecourt can still be seen in a wide filled-in pavement area directly opposite the Station Hotel. The course of the line as it heads southwards towards Uttoxeter has been partly interrupted by a retail park, but it can be traced to the rear of the retail park via a culvert under the A52, through a still-existing short cutting and then along a low embankment into the village of Clifton, and can then still be traced all the way to Rocester.


== Route ==


== See also ==
Ashbourne Line


== References ==
Notes

Sources
Bentley, J.M.; Fox, G.K. (1997). Railways of the High Peak: Buxton to Ashbourne. Scenes from the past. Vol. 32. Stockport: Foxline. ISBN 978-1-870119-45-0.
Quick, Michael (2009) [2001]. Railway passenger stations in Great Britain: a chronology (4th ed.). Oxford: Railway & Canal Historical Society. ISBN 978-0-901461-57-5. OCLC 612226077.
Sprenger, Howard (2013). Rails to Ashbourne. Southampton: Kestrel. ISBN 978-1-905505-29-6.


== External links ==
Tissington & High Peak Trails - access and facilities
The Pennine Bridleway
Pennine Cycleway - the Ashbourne Tunnel
Ashbourne railway station on navigable 1947 Ordnance Survey map

American women of Spanish and Latin American descent, also known as Latinas, contributed to the United States' efforts in World War II both overseas and on the Homefront.


== Before the war ==
In the aftermath of World War I, countries of Europe were left in debt from the war, inflation started to rise, and the United States suffered from the Great Depression. The United States opposed the fascist regimes that were gaining ground around the world, but it was not until 1941 that the U.S. entered into the war. In reaction to the December 7 attack on Pearl Harbor, the American public overwhelmingly supported military involvement and Congress declared war on Japan on December 8, 1941.


=== Latinos in the U.S. ===
American men and women of Latin American or Spanish descent had served in World War I and promoted the efforts of the United States. While many Latinos joined the military to serve their country, evidence shows that discrimination remained a common experience.
Herbert Hoover claimed that undocumented Latinos were a contributing factor for high unemployment rates during the Great Depression. In response to demands from organized labor, Secretary of Labor William Doaks reinvigorated the Immigration and Naturalization Service, advocating the use of random raids to apprehend undocumented persons and/or those unable to prove citizenship for repatriation outside the U.S.
Political rhetoric to otherize Latinos helped in the spread of stereotypes and contributed to discriminatory notions that Latinos were merely "part of the landscape, supporting actors in a drama that purported only to affect them, not to be affected by them." This inaccurate characterization that Latino Americans were not active contributors in the World War I effort, and mainstream society in general, was not based on societal stereotypes. It was common for Latinos to experience racial discrimination and unfair treatment in much of this time period.
Latinas were also treated unfairly on the basis of sex, like most American women in that time, including forms of sex discrimination particular to Latino communities. Nonetheless, some Latinas sought opportunities to support their country during World War II.


== Latinas at war ==


=== Life overseas ===

The contributions of Latinas throughout the war were notable and courageous.
During World War II, the Women's Army Corps and the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps were created alongside the existing Army Nurse Corps. This gave women the chance to work not only as nurses, but as uniformed members of the armed forces. Due to their fluency in the Spanish language, Latina women were even sought out for positions as "cryptologists and in correspondence and communications."
Members of the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps were not protected by the same international laws as prisoners of war. Furthermore, they were not granted the same benefits as their male counterparts. Latinas commonly faced discrimination on the basis of sex and/or race while overseas and within their respective units.
However, overseas employment opportunities during this period provided new options for some Latina women who had not previously received formal trade training. For many, this represented their first employment outside the home and provided experience that could contribute to later opportunities in technical fields. 
Women worked in positions such as nurses, technical agents, mechanics, and telegram operators overseas. In these positions, women gained new skills and a sense of "personal freedom" achieved by leaving their towns and communities. This increased their individual agency and set them up for success upon returning home.


=== Returning home ===

While women were a vital part of the military's success, they did not always receive recognition. This disparity is even greater when looking at the recognition of Latina Women in the armed forces and their work as nurses overseas.
As Latina service women returned to the United States, many expected to be welcomed as heroes who had served their country, but were disappointed to realize their participation in World War II did little to change the perception of Latinas in the eyes of much of the American public at the time. Many felt that they were seen as second class citizens or foreigners.
Within their local communities, many women who had served in the armed forces or as nurses used their experiences as a springboard to jumpstart their educational or career goals. Women entered the workforce in greater numbers after World War II. Their military service frequently enabled them to bypass many of the previous cultural norms surrounding women's roles in and outside of the home.
Re-acclimation to post-war life for Latinas was sometimes difficult in part due to government policies which specifically excluded female service members from the benefits given to their male counterparts. While it was common for Latino males to experience discrimination based on race, male soldiers received legislated benefits which enabled them greater ability to go to college and buy homes.
Like many American women who served overseas, Latinas sometimes encountered underlying social tension and judgement as being "drinkers and smokers" or morally dubious by more conservative communities.


== Latinas on the home front ==


=== Agriculture ===
One of the biggest sources of agricultural jobs for Mexicans in the United States during World War II was the Bracero Program, a temporary work agreement between the U.S. and Mexico through which workers would enter the United States for a certain amount of time, and then return to Mexico. Women were not included in the Bracero Program, yet it still had a profound effect on Latinas who raised their family as a single caretaker back in Mexico. In some cases, women in Mexico began taking more decision-making roles and participating more heavily in their family businesses while their husbands were away. Because it took a long time for funds from the Bracero Program to actually be sent back to Mexico, some Latinas chose undocumented migration into the U.S.


=== Industry ===

With the U.S. joining the war, the demand for labor increased significantly to support defense production, yet availability of male labor decreased as men volunteered for war. This dynamic resulted in women increasingly adopting industry-based jobs, as exemplified by the iconic Rosie the Riveter.
Like other American women, Latinas started to fill the positions left behind by men, helping these factories produce parts for weapons, ships, or aircraft. One example of many is The Friedrich Refrigeration Company in San Antonio, Texas, which was contracted to make parts for bombs where much of the company's workforce consisted of Mexican-American women.
Latinas became a big part of the workforce in the garment industry, including the manufacture of uniforms. In some cases, sweatshops sought to hire Latinas as very low-wage workers. For some time after World War II, the garment industry would continue to relocate to lower-wage areas, seeking Latina women in need of work.


=== Societal effects ===
For American Latinas during World War II, the transition from domestic life into working life, or from less intensive jobs into higher intensity positions, had major societal effects. Women in industrial jobs experienced an increasing a relaxation of previously rigid expectations of gender roles. The shift in work meant women were acquiring new skills, aiding in the changing societal gender norms.
These new jobs sometimes required new attire, such as coveralls, overalls, pants, and big heavy shoes, none of which would have been seen as women's attire prior to this shift of women into industry.  In many Latino communities, the image of Rosie the Riveter was widely seen as representing American women of many ethnicities as the majority of women who embodied the "denim-clad, tool-wielding, can-do figure" were not white women, but rather women of color.
Latina women also took part in the Pachuca and Zoot Suit culture of World War II.  The women's participation in this, as feminizing the zoot suit to fit their needs, showcased the newfound mobility and agency gained from the War.  The female zoot suiters were bold, knowing that they were challenging gender norms.  They were excluded from history for their failure to fit the masculine profile, however the women pachucas can be seen as a symbol of independence.


== Aftermath ==
As servicemen returned home from World War II, employment opportunities for women and especially women of color decreased.  Post-war reconversion efforts lead to job losses for American women, often followed by intense social pressures for women to return to previous norms of domestic focus. With the economy shifting from wartime to peace, many war-related industries reduced production and employment.
Attitudes towards the layoffs were mixed. Some Latinas were happy to return home to their children and families. Others chose to turn to desk jobs that were considered more "womanly" and less labor-intensive. A smaller portion wanted to stay in their previous jobs and some managed to do so.
Latina women felt a strong sense of patriotism while working in war-related industries. Options to fight discrimination practices diminished as Truman disbanded the Office of War Information and Office of the Coordinator of the Inter-American Affairs.


== See also ==
Hispanic Americans in World War II
Women in World War II


== References ==

Foulonia is a genus of trilobites in the order Phacopida, that existed during the lower Ordovician in what is now France. It was described by Pribyl and Vanek in 1985, and the type species is Foulonia peregrinus, which was originally described under the genus Ceraurinella by Dean in 1966. The type locality was on Montagne Noire.


== References ==


== External links ==
Foulonia at the Paleobiology Database

The 2011 FIM Team Ice Racing World Championship was the 33rd edition and the 2011 version of FIM Team Ice Racing World Championship season. The Final was held in Berlin, Germany on 26–27 February 2011.
The championship was won by the defending champion Russia (58 points), who they beat Austria (49 pts) and Czech Republic (37 pts).


== World Final ==


=== Results ===
26–27 February 2011
 Wilmersdorf, Berlin
Horst-Dohm-Eisstadion (Length: 386m)
Referee:  Istvan Darago
Jury President:  Ilkka Teromaa
References 


=== Heat details - Day One ===
 
m - exclusion for exceeding two minute time allowance • t - exclusion for touching the tapes • x - other exclusion • e - retired or mechanical failure • f - fellns - non-starter • nc - non-classify


=== Heat details - Day Two ===
 
m - exclusion for exceeding two minute time allowance •
t - exclusion for touching the tapes •
x - other exclusion •
e - retired or mechanical failure •
f - fell
ns - non-starter •
nc - non-classify


== See also ==
2011 Individual Ice Racing World Championship
2011 Speedway World Cup in classic speedway
2011 Speedway Grand Prix in classic speedway


== References ==

Sekba or sometimes called bektim is a Chinese Indonesian pork offal stewed in a mild soy sauce-based soup. The stew tastes mildly sweet and salty, made from soy sauce, garlic, and Chinese herbs. It is a popular fare street food in Indonesian Chinatowns, such as Gloria alley, Glodok Chinatown in Jakarta, Indonesia.


== Variations ==
As a street food fare, customer might choose the type of pork offals in their dish, and they will be charged accordingly. Other than pork meat, the types of pork offals being offered as sekba are pig's ears, tongue, liver, tripe, intestines and lungs. The prices of each pieces of pork offals ranged between Rp 5,000 to Rp 15,000. A personal portion usually contains three types of offals or meat. Vegetables, such as boiled potatoes, salted vegetables, tofu, and sometimes hard boiled eggs may also be added.


== See also ==

Babi kecap
Bak kut teh
Lou mei
Phá lấu
Pig's organ soup
Semur
List of stews


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Sekba at Wikimedia Commons
Sekba recipes (in Indonesian)

Now Hear This was a self-produced and distributed album by country rock band the Ozark Mountain Daredevils,  recorded in 1990 at Lou Whitney's Column One Studios in Springfield and sold only at concerts on cassette tape.


== Track listing ==
"I'm Still Dreamin'"
"Everywhere She Goes"
"Hilltop Girl"
"Over Again"
"Love Is Calling"
"There Oughta Be a Law"
"True Love"
"Gonna Buy Me a Car"
"(Flame of) Laredo"
"The River"


== Personnel ==
Steve Cash - harps, vocals
John Dillon - guitar, vocals, mandolini, fiddle
Mike (Supe) Granda - bass, vocals
Ron Gremp - drums
D. Clinton Thompson - lead guitar


== References ==

Claus Krag (born April 21, 1943) is a Norwegian educator, historian, and writer. He is a noted specialist in Old Norse philology and medieval Norwegian history. Krag  earned his Cand.philol. in 1969. He is professor of history at Telemark University College.


== Selected works ==
Motstandsbestemmelsene i Frostatingsloven (1969)
Artikler i utvalg for historiestudiet : Roma og middelalder (1975)
By og imperium : Romas historie fra republikk til keiserdømme : tekst, kilder og oppgaver (1977)
Introduksjon til bosetningshistorien (1980)
Oldtidens historie ca. 700 f.Kr. - 600 e.Kr. Første del : Hellas (1983)
Skikkethet og arv i tronfølgeloven av 1163 (1983)
Perspektiv på tidlig middelalder (1983)
Europa i middelalderen : hovedlinjer i den politiske utvikling ca. 500-1300 (1985)
Ynglingatal og Ynglingesaga- en studie i historiske kilder (1991)
Vikingtid og rikssamling 800-1130 (Aschehoug's History of Norway, 2) (Oslo, 1995)
Kirkens forkynnelse i tidlig middelalder og nordmennenes kristendom (1995)
Norges historie fram til 1319 (Oslo, 2000)
Sverre: Norges største middelalderkonge (2003)


== References ==


== External links ==
Claus Krag (Library Database)
Claus Krag  (Universitetsforlaget)

The 1965–66 Turkish Cup was the 4th edition of the annual tournament that determined the association football Süper Lig Turkish Cup (Turkish: Türkiye Kupası) champion under the auspices of the Turkish Football Federation (Turkish: Türkiye Futbol Federasyonu; TFF). Galatasaray successfully contested Beşiktaş 1–0 in the final. The results of the tournament also determined which clubs would be promoted or relegated.


== Quarter-finals ==
In the Quarter Finals round, Fenerbahçe, Galatasaray, Gençlerbirliği, and Beşiktaş advanced to the Semi-Finals round;  Denizli Karagücü, Ankaragücü, Adana Demirspor, and Bursaspor were eliminated.


== Semi-finals ==
In the Semi-Finals round, Galatasaray and Beşiktaş advanced to the final; Fenerbahçe and Gençlerbirliği were eliminated.


== Final ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Turkish Soccer

The ornate butterflyfish (Chaetodon ornatissimus), or clown butterflyfish is a species of marine ray-finned fish, a butterflyfish in the family Chaetodontidae.
The ornate butterflyfish is a close relative of the mailed butterflyfish (C. reticulatus) and the scrawled butterflyfish (C. meyeri). Together they make up the subgenus called "Citharoedus", but as this name had already been used for the mollusk genus when it was given to the fish, it is not valid. They are probably quite close to the subgenus Corallochaetodon, which contains the Melon Butterflyfish (C. trifasciatus). Like these, they might be separated into Megaprotodon if the genus Chaetodon is split up.


== Morphology ==
Chaetodon ornatissimus is most easily identified by its color pattern, which helps protect it from predators. Ornate butterflyfish have white bodies with orange to orange-brown oblique bands. They also have two yellow-edged black bars on their head: one runs across the eyes and the other is on the snout, and the tail has two black bars. The size of the ornate butterflyfish ranges from 13 to 18 cm total length (mean +/- SD = 16.2 +/- 1.4 cm) and pair members are nearly always indistinguishable based on size.


== Behavior ==
Ornate butterflyfish adults are predominately found in pairs that occupy exclusive territories including Clearwater lagoons and seaward reefs rich in coral growth (size range ~100-1400m2). On the other hand, juvenile Chaetodon ornatissimus live in solitary, tend to be shy, and hide in the arms of branching corals for protection. Once juveniles reach breeding age, they form pairs. It is uncommon to find adult Chaetodon ornatissimus without a mate. Pairs also establish a "home range" where they are likely always to be found.


== Reproduction ==
Ornate butterflyfish are monogamous and pair-forming coral reef fish. Many ornate butterflyfish mate for life. Spawning activity occurs at different times depending on each biome. Tropical spawning peaks in winter and early spring, while temperate spawning occurs in midsummer. Spawning occurs at dusk and eggs are released and fertilized in the water column.


== Habitat and range ==
The ornate butterflyfish is widespread throughout the tropical waters of the Indo-Pacific area, ranging from Sri Lanka to Hawaii, the Marquesas, the Pitcairn Islands, North to Southern Japan, South to Lord Howe, and Rapa in the Austral Islands. Over three-quarters of the world's fish species inhabit this region. The environment C. ornatissimus lives in is marine, inshore, tropical (30°N - 30°S, 77°E - 124°W) and reef associated. They tend to live at a depth range between 1–36 meters.


== Habitat threats ==
Ornate butterflyfish like other coral reef organisms, have many natural and anthropogenic disruptions which play a major role in loss of habitat of. Sessile, benthic communities on tropical coral reefs experience natural disruptions including tropical storms, unseasonal temperature extremes and infestations of crown-of-thorn sea stars (Acanthaster planci). These events are becoming more frequent, which makes anthropogenic influences more chronic. Anthropogenic disturbances include overfishing, pollution and coastal development, all of which cause depletion in corals. Over 30 percent of the coral reef communities in the world have already been degraded; however, by 2030 more than 60 percent of coral reef communities will have been lost.
These changes in the structure of benthic coral reef habitats have adverse effects on coral reef fish, specifically butterflyfish. Several studies have documented the decline of butterflyfish, and localized extinctions, following coral depletion. A study by Pratchett et al., revealed that declines in abundance of Chaetodon butterflyfish were almost certainly related to coral depletion. Declines in abundances of butterflyfish were due to starvation.
Another adverse anthropogenic effect which alters habitat community composition is the shift from coral-dominated to seaweed-dominated benthic communities. Coral reef communities provide shelter and food resources for Butterflyfish. However, the presence of seaweed has a substantial impact on butterflyfish, as they actively avoid corals in contact with seaweed. 
Anthropogenic impacts of overfishing of herbivorous fish and increase of eutrophication create favorable conditions for seaweed growth. Increase in seaweed-dominated benthic communities limits expansion of coral colonies and availability of surfaces for larval settlement and development.


== Diet and feeding ==
Ornate butterflyfish feed exclusively on coral polyp tissue and small organisms. Ornate butterflyfish feed on ten different coral species, which is the broadest range of corals when compared with other coral-eating  butterflyfish species. Other obligate corallivores (coral-eating) butterflyfish species include: Chaetodon austriacus, C. baronessa, C. bennetti, C. larvatus, C. lunulatus, C. meyeri, C. octofasiatus, C. rainfordi, and C. trifasicatus. Butterflyfish are obligate corallivores, which means the majority of their diet must be made up of live coral polyp - coral mucous rather than coral tissue. Butterflyfish have very fine hair-like teeth that enable them to pick out small organisms inaccessible to most other fish for eating. They thrive mainly on a diet of coral polyps, tentacles of feather dusters and Christmas-tree worms. All of those food sources tend to crawl back into their shells; therefore, butterflyfish need to be able to hover motionless while picking at the coral, and to dart swiftly over short distances to get the organisms that retreat into hiding before they retract. Ornate Butterflyfish are able to do this by using their pectoral fins as oars to brake, sprint, turn and reverse.


== Economic importance ==
Ornate butterflyfish are one of the most popular tropical fishes with divers and aquarists. However, ornate butterflyfish are nearly impossible to keep successfully in captivity, because they are obligate corallivores.


== Footnotes ==


== References ==

Adam, T. C. (2010). Competition encourages cooperation: client fish receive higher-quality service when cleaner fish compete. Animal Behaviour, 79(6), 1183–1189.
Collinske, G. (2017, August 2). Awesome Fish Spotlight: The Ornate Butterflyfish: Reef Builders: The Reef and Saltwater Aquarium Blog. Retrieved from https://reefbuilders.com/2017/08/02/awesome-fish-spotlight-the-ornate-butterflyfish/
Fessler, Jennifer L., and Mark W. Westneat. "Molecular phylogenetics of the butterflyfishes (Chaetodontidae): taxonomy and biogeography of a global coral reef fish family." Molecular phylogenetics and evolution 45.1 (2007): 50–68.
Froese, R. and D. Pauly. Editors. 2019. FishBase. World Wide Web electronic publication. www.fishbase.org, (2019)
Hernández, Sebastián, et al. "First Records of Striped Boarfish Evistias acutirostris and Ornate Butterflyfish Chaetodon ornatissimus from Easter Island1." Pacific Science 69.4 (2015): 525–529.
Myers, R. F. (1991). Micronesian reef fishes. Barrigada, Guam: Coral Graphics.
Hsu, Kui-Ching; Chen, Jeng-Ping & Shao, Kwang-Tsao (2007): Molecular phylogeny of Chaetodon (Teleostei: Chaetodontidae) in the Indo-West Pacific: evolution in geminate species pairs and species groups. Raffles Bulletin of Zoology Supplement 14: 77–86. PDF fulltext
Weinheimer, Monica; Jonna, R. Jamil. "Chaetodontidae (Butterflyfishes)". Animal Diversity Web. Retrieved 2020-04-13.
Pratchett, M. S., Wilson, S. K., & Baird, A. H. (2006). Declines in the abundance of Chaetodon butterflyfish following extensive coral depletion. Journal of fish Biology, 69(5), 1269–1280.
Brooker, R. M. et al. Cryptic effects of habitat declines: coral-associated fishes avoid coral-seaward interactions due to visual and chemical cues. Sci. Rep. 6, 18842; doin: 10.1038/srep18842 (2016).


== External links ==
Photos of Ornate butterflyfish in the Sealife Collection

Michiko is a traditional female Japanese given name. Although written romanized the same way, the Japanese language written forms (kanji, katakana, hiragana) can be different.  Common forms include:

美智子 — "beautiful wise child"
美千子 — "child of a thousand beauties"
見知子 — "child of recognition"
道子 — "child of the way"
路子 — "child of the road"
倫子 — "child of morals"
皆子 — "child of all"
通子 — "child of passage"
Phonetic spellings (no particular meaning):

みちこ (in hiragana)
ミチコ (in katakana)


== People ==
Michiko Shoda (正田 美智子), later Empress Michiko of Japan
Michiko Fujiwara (藤原 道子; 1900–1983), Japanese nurse and politician
Michiko Fukushima (長谷川-福島 實智子), a Japanese sport shooter from Kumaishi, Hokkaidō Japan
Michiko Godai (五大 路子), Japanese actress from Yokohama, Japan
Michiko Hada (羽田 美智子), an actress from  Mitsukaido, Japan
Michiko Hattori (服部道子), Japanese professional golfer and former Player of the Year on the Japan LPGA
Michiko Hamamura (浜村 美智子), Japanese singer and actress from Osaka, Japan
Michiko Hirai (平井 道子; 1935–1984), Japanese actress and voice actress
Horibe Michiko (堀部美智子), a Japanese ski mountaineer and telemark skier
Michiko Inukai (犬養 道子), Japanese Roman-Catholic author and philanthropist
Michiko Ishii (石井 道子; 1933–2012), Japanese politician
Michiko Ishimure (石牟礼道子), a Japanese writer
Michiko Itatani (born 1948), Japanese artist
Michiko Kakutani (角谷 美智子), an American literary critic
Michiko Kanba (樺 美智子; 1937–1960), Japanese communist
Michiko Kashiwabara (柏原 理子), a Japanese cross-country skier who competed at the 2010 Winter Olympic Games
Michiko Katagiri, paralympic swimmer from Japan
Michiko Kawai (河合 美智子; born 1968), Japanese actress and singer
Michiko Kichise (吉瀬 美智子), a Japanese actress
Michiko Kon (今道子), Japanese photographer
Michiko Kono,  Japanese former cricketer
Michiko Koshino (小篠 美智子), a Japanese fashion designer
Michiko Maeda (前田通子), Japanese film and television actress from Osaka
Michiko Matsuda (松田 理子; born 1966), former Japanese football player
Michiko Matsumoto (松本 路子), Japanese photographer
Michiko Nagai (永井路子), Japanese historical fiction writer
Michiko Neya (根谷 美智子), a voice actress from Echizen, Fukui Japan
Michiko Nishiwaki (西脇 美智子), a Japanese stunt woman, actress, martial artist, and former female bodybuilder
Michiko Nomura (野村 道子, born 1938), a voice actress
Michiko Naruke (なるけ みちこ), a Japanese video game composer
Michiko Okada,  Japanese professional golfer who played on the LPGA of Japan Tour
Michiko Omukai (大向 美智子; born 1975), Japanese former professional wrestler
Michiko Shimizu (athlete) (志水 見千子; born 1970), Japanese long-distance runner
Michiko Shimizu (entertainer) (清水 ミチコ; born 1960), Japanese television personality, comedian and actress
Michiko Shiokawa (塩川 美知子), retired Japanese volleyball player who competed in the 1972 Summer Olympics
Michiko Suganuma (菅沼　三千子), Kamakura-bori now Wagae-nuri artist from Japan
Michiko Tanaka (田中路子, 1913–1988), a Japanese actress and singer who was married to German stage and film actor Viktor de Kowa
Michiko Tomabechi (苫米地 美智子; born 1980), Japanese curler
Michiko Ueno (上野 通子; born 1958), Japanese politician
Michiko Yamamoto (山本 道子; 1936–2026), Japanese writer and poet
Michiko Yamamoto (screenwriter) (born 1979), Filipino screenwriter
Michiko Yamawaki (山脇 道子; 1910–2000), Japanese designer and textile artist
Michiko Yokote (横手 美智子), a Japanese screenwriter


== Fictional characters ==
Michiko Malandro (ミチコ・マランドロ), protagonist of the anime series Michiko to Hatchin
Michiko Sawada (沢田・ミチ子), a character from manga and anime Perman
Michiko, a character from anime Dennō Coil
Michiko Ueda, a character from the book The Knox Chronicles
Daimon Michiko (大門未知子), the eponymous protagonist of the successful Japanese television series Doctor-X: Surgeon Michiko Daimon   (ドクターX〜外科医・大門未知子〜) (2012–2021)
Michiko (美智子), a hunter in the video game Identity V
Michiko Arasaka, member of the Arasaka family from Mike Podsmith Cyberpunk franchise.*

The Senate of Buenos Aires Province (Spanish: Senado de la provincia de Buenos Aires) is the upper house of the Legislature of Buenos Aires Province, the largest and most populous of Argentina's provinces. It comprises 46 members elected in eight multi-member constituencies known as Electoral Sections. The number of senators that correspond to each of the electoral sections is proportional to their population, as observed in the results of every nationwide census conducted in Argentina every 10 years. Seats may only be added to adjust the proportionality of each section, but never reduced. 
As in the National Chamber of Deputies and most other provincial legislatures, elections to the Senate are held every two years, so that half of its members are up in each election. The same system is employed in the provincial Chamber of Deputies. 
The Senate was established with the promulgation of the Constitution of the State of Buenos Aires, a short-lived secessionist state, in 1854. Originally located in the City of Buenos Aires, the provincial legislature was moved to La Plata following that city's establishment in 1882. The body meets in the Legislative Palace, designed by Hannover architects Gustav Heine and Georg Hagemann in 1883 and completed in 1888.


== List of presidents of the Senate ==
The Senate is chaired by the vice governor of the province, who is elected alongside the governor every four years. The Vice Governor may only cast tie-breaking votes (according to article 93 of the provincial constitution). The following is a list of vice governors of Buenos Aires since the return of democracy in 1983.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Jonathan Brewster Bingham (April 24, 1914 – July 3, 1986) was an American politician and diplomat. He was the US delegate to the United Nations General Assembly and was elected to Congress from The Bronx, serving in the House of Representatives from 1965 to 1983.


== Early life ==
Bingham was born in New Haven, Connecticut. His father, Hiram Bingham III, was a Senator and explorer and his great grandfather, Hiram Bingham I, was a missionary, who helped translate the Bible into Hawaiian.
Bingham attended Hamden Hall Country Day School and Groton School and graduated from Yale University in 1936 with a BA and from Yale Law School in 1939 with a law degree. He was a member of Skull and Bones, class of 1936. In 1940 he was admitted to the bar, and began the practice of law in New York City. His practice was interrupted in August 1941, when he joined the Machinery Branch of the newly created Office of Price Administration (OPA) as a legal advisor.


=== World War II ===
He was not at the OPA for long, for in 1942 he joined the Military Intelligence Service. In April of the following year he was enlisted as a private in the United States Army and was discharged a captain in October 1945 with a War Department citation.


== Diplomat ==
On his return he was appointed chief of the newly created Alien Enemy Control Section of the State Department. The Alien Enemy Control Section was unpopular and short-lived. Bingham got off the boat before it sank, resuming the practice of law in New York City in 1946.
He left the practice of law again in 1951 to become assistant director of the Office of International Security Affairs. Bingham left in the same year to become deputy administrator of the Technical Cooperation Administration, implementing the Point 4 Program of technical assistance to developing countries.  His book, Shirt-Sleeve Diplomacy: Point 4 in Action, was published in 1953.  He left the administration in that year and resumed the practice of law. In 1955 he became secretary to fellow Bonesman, W. Averell Harriman, while he was Governor of New York. When Harriman was defeated in the 1958 election by Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller, Bingham joined the law firm Goldwater & Flynn.
In 1961 Bingham entered the world of diplomacy, as a United States representative on the United Nations Trusteeship Council with rank of Minister in 1961 and 1962, serving as President in 1962. During this period he was also principal adviser to the U.S. ambassador to U.N. on colonial and trusteeship questions. From 1963 to 1964 he was a United States representative on the United Nations Economic and Social Council with rank of Ambassador. He was also alternate representative to the 15th and 18th United Nations General Assemblies.


== Congress ==
In 1964 he was elected to the House of Representatives from the 23rd District of New York, a district in the Bronx, at a time when elections in the Bronx were decided in the Democratic primaries in contests between "regular" or machine Democrats, and "reform" or challenger Democrats. Bingham defeated Charles Buckley, the leader of the Bronx "regular" Democrats and a powerful, senior committee chairman in Congress, in a rematch following Bingham's defeat in his first try against the incumbent Buckley in the 1962 Democratic primary.
Bingham represented the 23rd District from January 3, 1965 until January 3, 1973, when, as a result of redistricting following the 1970 census, he was elected to the House from the 22nd District of New York following a bruising primary with neighboring Democratic incumbent congressman James H. Scheuer. He served the 22nd District from January 3, 1973 until January 3, 1983, but did not pursue reelection when, in 1982, his district essentially disappeared as a result of another post-census redistricting.
In the House, Bingham served on the Foreign Affairs and Interior and Insular Affairs Committees and chaired the Subcommittee on International Economic Policy and Trade. He was particularly dedicated to nuclear non-proliferation, national security, foreign assistance, and environmental protection. Bingham was instrumental in formulating and obtaining passage of the War Powers Act of 1973, the Trade Act of 1974 (including the Jackson-Vanik Amendment), the Foreign Assistance Act Amendments of 1974 and 1976, the Arms Export Control Act of 1976, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act of 1977, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, and the Export Administration Act of 1979. In 1976 he led a legislative movement opposed by members of the Joint Committee on Atomic Energy to replace the Atomic Energy Commission and create a Nuclear Regulatory Commission as part of a new U.S. Department of Energy. Those changes were adopted in the Energy Act of 1977. The House Subcommittee he chaired formulated and pressed for enactment of the first comprehensive anti-proliferation legislation in U.S. history, the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978. It was signed into law by President Carter in a Cabinet Room ceremony in March 1978. Since its enactment, only Pakistan and North Korea have become new nuclear powers. Bingham supported U.S. aid to Israel, particularly for the settlement of Soviet Jewish refugees, and to Romania after the March 1977 Vrancea earthquake, sponsoring a bill to provide $20 million in assistance to the country. He authored and obtained passage of legislation to place a statue of Martin Luther King Jr. in the Capitol Rotunda before a statue of King was erected on the Washington Mall.


== Family ==
He was married to June Rossbach, an author, playwright, and member of the Lehman family (her great-grandfather was Mayer Lehman, one of the founders of the Lehman Brothers firm). They had four children: Sherrell Bingham Downes; Timothy Woodbridge Bingham; Claudia Bingham Meyers; and June Mitchell (Micki) Esselstyn (d. 1999).
After Jonathan Bingham's death, Mrs. Bingham married Robert Birge and was then known as June Bingham Birge.


== Death ==
Bingham died from complications of pneumonia, aged 72, at the Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan on July 3, 1986.


== References ==


== External links ==
United States Congress. "Jonathan B. Bingham (id: B000472)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress.

Christian Riganò (born 25 May 1974) is an Italian football manager and former professional footballer who played as a striker.


== Career ==


=== Early career ===
Riganò was born in Lipari, Province of Messina. A former bricklayer, he started his career with amateur team Lipari, where he gained a reputation of a prolific striker. In 1997, he moved to then Serie D team Messina, but he failed to impress there. This was followed by two season with Igea Virtus, another Serie D team, and 28 goals with the Sicilian side.


=== Taranto ===
In 2000, at the age of 26, Riganò finally entered into professional football with Taranto, being instrumental in the rossoblu's promotion in their first season, and an impressive Serie C1 campaign the following year, being crowned Serie C1's topscorer with 27 goals in the 2001–02 season, and narrowly missing out on promotion to Serie B.


=== Florentia ===
In 2002, Riganò joined Florentia Viola of Serie C2, and scored a personal record of 30 goals in 32 matches, earning the title of top-scorer in the league once again and helping Fiorentina to obtain promotion. During the 2003–04 season, he scored 23 Serie B goals in 44 matches, helping Fiorentina to win promotion to Serie A and earning his Serie A debut at the age of 30 the following season. During the 2005–06 winter transfer window, he was loaned to Empoli with little success.


=== Messina ===
In August 2006 Riganò moved to Messina, making a very impressive season, scoring 19 goals in 26 appearances. He finished third on the top scorer chart in Serie A during the 2006–07 season, despite having sustained an injury in January which saw him miss action for three months.


=== Levante and loans ===
In August 2007 Riganò signed for Levante but scored only four goals in 13 matches during his six-month stay with the Spanish side (three of which came in a hat-trick against Almería, making him the second Italian player after Christian Vieri to score a hat-trick in La Liga), being then loaned out to Siena during the January transfer window.
He was released by Levante after the Valencian club went relegated to Segunda División.


=== Later years ===
Free agent Riganò joined Lega Pro Prima Divisione club Ternana on 31 August 2008. His time at Ternana however proved to be disappointing, as Riganò played only a handful of matches, being then excluded from the first team on November. On 2 February 2009 Riganò accepted a permanent move to Cremonese, another Lega Pro Prima Divisione club, where he re-joined Emiliano Mondonico, his former head coach at Fiorentina. He successively left Cremonese at the end of the season, and signed with Italian club Rondinella, the second team of Florence.


== Style of play ==
A large and tall striker who excelled in the air, Riganò was neither fast nor particularly powerful, but was known for his opportunism, anticipation, heading accuracy and eye for goal, despite his poor work-rate and struggles with fitness and weight-gain in his later career; due to his prolific goalscoring and place of birth, he earned the nicknames il bomber di Lipari and Riga-Gol. A former defender, he was a well-rounded forward, who possessed excellent movement, timing, and positional sense, which made him a difficult player to mark. Usually deployed as a centre-forward, he was also capable of using his physical strength and technical skills to hold up the ball for his team-mates when playing with his back to goal, and of providing them with assists in addition to scoring goals himself, and was an accurate penalty taker.


== Honours ==


=== Club ===
Taranto
Serie C2: 2000–01
Florentia Viola
Serie C2: 2002–03


=== Individual ===
Serie C1 Top-scorer: 2001–02 (27 goals)
Serie C2 Top-scorer 2002–03 (30 goals)
Fiorentina Hall of Fame


== References ==


== External links ==
Gazzetta.it career profile (in Italian)

Antonio Álvarez Villar, also known as Toño Álvarez (born 26 December 2003) is a Mexican professional footballer who plays for Piratas in Liga de Expansión MX.


== Early life ==
Álvarez began playing at age four with Club Deportivo Fortín (now known as Fuertes CDF). In 2016, he began playing with Atlante. After having departed Atlante a couple years earlier, in 2019, he joined the youth system of C.D. Guadalajara. In 2020, he joined the Cruz Azul youth system. In 2022, he joined the youth system of Club América.


== Club career ==
Álvarez played for Guadalajara B in the Mexican third tier.
On 12 July 2024, he made his debut for Club América in Liga MX against Querétaro. On 10 January 2025, he scored his first goal in Liga MX, in a 1-0 victory over Querétaro, in a match where America played the majority of its U23 squad.
In August 2025, he was loaned to Canadian Premier League club Atlético Ottawa. He made his debut on 10 August 2025 against Valour FC. At the end of the year he returned to América.
In June 2026 he signed with Piratas F.C. of the Liga de Expansión MX, the second tier of Mexican football.


== Career statistics ==
As of 9 June 2026


== References ==


== External links ==
Antonio Álvarez at Soccerway

Drumcondra Public Library is an art deco style public library in Drumcondra, Dublin designed by Robert Sorley Lawrie working in the city architect's office under Horace O'Rourke.
The library building was one of four similar libraries built by Dublin Corporation between 1935 and 1940 in the Dublin suburbs of Phibsborough, Ringsend, Drumcondra and Inchicore.


== See also ==
Ringsend Public Library
Inchicore Public Library
Phibsborough Public Library
List of libraries in the Republic of Ireland


== References ==

Theodosius Andreas Harnack (Russian: Феодосий Карлович Гарнак, romanized: Feodosij Karlovič Garnak; 3 January [O.S. 22 December 1816] 1817, St. Petersburg – 23 September [O.S. 11] 1889, Dorpat (now Tartu)) was a Baltic German theologian.
A professor of Divinity, he started his career as a Privatdozent for church history and homiletics at the Imperial University of Dorpat (in what is today Tartu, Estonia) in 1843, he was further appointed university preacher in 1847. Since 1848 he held an ordinary chair (tenure) as professor for practical and systematic theology. Between 1853 and 1866 Harnack was professor at Frederick Alexander University (merged in the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg since 1961) in Erlangen, Bavaria, German Confederation (now Germany).
Harnack was a staunch Lutheran and a prolific writer on theological subjects; his chief field of work was practical theology, and his important book on that subject summing up his long experience and teaching appeared at Erlangen (1877–1878, 2 vols.). The liturgy of the then Lutheran church in Russia has, since 1898, been based on his Liturgische Formulare (1872).
His twin sons were the German theologian Adolf von Harnack (1851–1930) and mathematician Carl Gustav Axel Harnack (1851–1888). His other two sons were also successful scientists, with the pharmacology and physiological chemistry professor Erich Harnack (1853–1914) and the history of literature professor Otto Harnack (1857–1914), father of Arvid Harnack and Falk Harnack.


== Books by Theodosius Harnack ==
Der christliche Gemeindegottesdienst im apostolischen und altkatholischen Zeitaltern (Erlangen, 1854)
Tabellarische Uebersicht der Geschichte der Liturgie der christlichen Hauptgottesdienstes (Erlangen, 1858)
Die lutherische Kirche Livlands und die herrnhutische Brüdergemeinde (Erlangen, 1860)
Luthers Theologie: mit besonderer Beziehung auf seine Versöhnungs- und Erlösungslehre (2 vols., Erlangen, 1862, 1886)
Praktische Theologie (4 vols., Erlangen, 1877-8)
Ueber den Kanon und die Inspiration der Heiligen Schrift: ein Wort zum Frieden (Erlangen, 1885)


== Further reading ==
Timothy C.J. Quill, An examination of the contributions of Theodosius Harnack to the renewal of the Lutheran liturgy in the nineteenth century, Madison: Drew University, Thesis (Ph. D.), 2002.


== Sources ==
die erfurt enzyklopädie
Alexander von Oettingen (1905). "Harnack, Theodosius" . Allgemeine Deutsche Biographie (in German). Vol. 50. Leipzig: Duncker & Humblot. pp. 8–16.
Martin Doerne (1966). "Harnack, Theodosius Andreas". Neue Deutsche Biographie (in German). Vol. 7. Berlin: Duncker & Humblot. pp. 690–691. (full text online).
Bernd Schröder, „Die Wissenschaft der sich selbst erbauenden Kirche – Theodosius Harnack“, in: Geschichte der Praktischen Theologie. Dargestellt anhand ihrer Klassiker, Christian Grethlein and Michael Meyer-Blanck (eds.), Leipzig: Evangelische Verlags-Anstalt, 2000, ISBN 3-374-01767-3, pp. 151–206.

Wheatland R-II School District (WSD) is a school district in Hickory County, Missouri with a jurisdiction over Wheatland, Missouri and the surrounding area. WSD has a graduation rate of 100%; 71% are eligible for free or reduced price lunches; and 56% of students head to college after graduation. The average teacher salary is $36,119. The school district spends $10,653 per student, slightly less than the national average 


== Schools ==


=== Elementary ===
Wheatland Elementary (PreK-6)


=== High school ===
Wheatland High School (6–12)


== Demographics ==


== References ==

Lempert is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:

Jochen Lempert (born 1958), German photographer
László Lempert (born 1952), Hungarian-American mathematician
Phil Lempert (born 1953), American television personality
Ted Lempert (born 1961), American politician
Werner Lempert (1937–2025), East German slalom canoeist

Mepiprazole (INN, BAN; brand name Psigodal) is an anxiolytic drug of the phenylpiperazine group with additional antidepressant properties that is marketed in Spain. It acts as a 5-HT2A and α1-adrenergic receptor antagonist and inhibits the reuptake and induces the release of serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine to varying extents, and has been described as a serotonin antagonist and reuptake inhibitor (SARI).


== Uses ==
Controlled clinical trials of mepiprazole in patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) were also carried out and suggested some benefits of the drug in relieving symptoms of IBS in some patients. Similarly to other phenylpiperazines like trazodone, nefazodone, and etoperidone, mepiprazole produces mCPP as an active metabolite.


== See also ==
Acaprazine
Enpiprazole
Lorpiprazole
Tolpiprazole


== References ==

Fred A. "Gildy" Gildersleeve (June 1881 – February 26, 1958) was an American photographer. His work helped pioneer aerial photography, panoramas, and light manipulation techniques. After settling in Waco, Texas, in 1905, Gildersleeve captured thousands of photographs depicting the city as it experienced an unprecedented period of growth. He first received recognition for his images of a biplane circling the Amicable building in 1911 and the Cotton Palace.
In May 1916, he was on the scene when Jesse Washington, a Black teenage farmhand, was lynched in front of a large crowd of onlookers. Gildersleeve's pictures of the event offer rare imagery of a lynching in progress. He printed and sold images of Jesse Washington’s mutilated body as souvenir postcards. Gildersleeve profited immensely from his postcards that depicted Black lynching victims, selling them for a premium, and often splitting the proceeds with local mayors who allowed him to set up his camera equipment first at advertised lynching sites.


== Early life and education ==
Fred A. Gildersleeve was born in Boulder, Colorado, in June 1881 but was raised in Kirksville, Missouri. In his youth, Gildersleeve was a race horse jockey, competing in county fairs throughout the state. While attending the state normal school, his mother purchased him an 1898 Kodak box camera. For 25 cents each, Gildersleeve sold images of fellow students to pay for his education. The aspiring photographer honed his craft by studying the trade further at an institute in Effingham, Illinois. Following his time in Effingham, Gildersleeve found work in Chicago before finally settling in Waco, Texas, in 1905 to manage his own studio.


== Career ==
Often working in tandem with his assistant Herbert Guinn, Gildersleeve rode through the city in an Excelsior motorbike and sidecar – later a Model T Ford –  to capture scenes of everyday life in the city; his imagery of Waco's developing infrastructure and its populace was well received by the townspeople who fully welcomed and affectionately came to know the photographer as "Gildy". As his popularity rose, Gildersleeve was commissioned more than any other photographer in Waco for local events and meetings, including his roles as official photographer for Baylor University and the State Fair of Texas.
"He was a man obsessed with freezing the moment in his adopted hometown", according to writer Joe Holley; indeed, thousands of photographs are credited to Gildersleeve, including his 1911 image of the Amicable building, Waco's first skyscraper, being circled in flight by aviator Calbraith Perry Rodgers. A few years later, he created a 12-foot wide panorama of the Cotton Palace, the world's largest photo at the time, and had it featured in exhibits across the United States. Gildersleeve's ambition to capture new perspectives of Waco's landmarks led him to pioneer aerial photography as he flew in biplanes.


=== Lynching of Jesse Washington ===

On May 15, 1916, a guilty verdict and a death sentence were announced at Waco's courthouse for Jesse Washington, a seventeen-year-old black farmhand, in complicity of the murder of Lucy Fryer, who was found dead seven days earlier. Attendees crowded the courthouse and sidewalks in anticipation of the trial; the crowd of about 2,000 spectators was almost entirely white aside from a few members of the city's black community. As officers approached Washington to escort him out of the courtroom, spectators pushed them aside and forcibly dragged Washington outside. Amid a growing mob, a chain was wrapped around Washington's neck, and he was stripped and beaten as he was taken to city hall. A bonfire was prepared next to a tree; doused in oil, Washington was repeatedly lowered into the flames and slowly burned to death in front of nearly 15,000 onlookers.
Perhaps at the request of mayor John Dollins, Gildersleeve arrived at the third floor of city hall shortly before Washington's lynching and photographed the event. His photographs offer rare depictions of an event in progress: views of the large crowd from the building and closer shots of Washington's corpse, possibly taken by an assistant. In some images, individuals from the crowd gathered around Washington to collect souvenirs from his body, making no attempts to hide their identities. Afterwards, Gildersleeve produced postcards of the lynching, a common practice of the era. A few postcards were sent out-of-state but local citizens persuaded Gildersleeve to stop selling them, fearing that the images would harm Waco's reputation.


=== Later life ===
Later in his career, hundreds of acetate negatives belonging to Gildersleeve were lost following divorce with his wife of thirty years. He experienced a significant decline in his health in the 1950s; on February 26, 1958, he died aged 77. Gildersleeve's will left his collection of 1,400 photographs to Roger Norman Conger, a Waco-based historian who, in an effort to preserve the images, donated Gildersleeve's work to the Texas Collection at Baylor University and the Lee Lockwood Library and Museum in Waco.


== References ==

Malaysia–Oman relations refers to the bilateral relations between Malaysia and Oman. Malaysia has an embassy in Muscat, and Oman has an embassy in Kuala Lumpur. Both countries are members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation.


== History ==

Official diplomatic relations were established on 15 January 1982., Embassy of Malaysia in  Muscat was established on 17 February 1983. On 3 March 1982, Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad made an official visit to Oman.
Oman established its embassy in Kuala Lumpur in April 1984.


== Economic relations ==
The total trade between the two countries grew from $28.1 million in 1995 to $1.06 billion in 2006 with Malaysia's exports to Oman increased from $26.4 million to $108 million and imports expanded from $1.7 million to $956 million. In 2009, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between Malaysia and Oman to improve co-ordination of trade and small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs).
Trade stood at nearly RM500 million during January–October 2010, with Malaysia's main exports to Oman being edible oil, machinery, appliances and parts, wood products, electrical and electronic products. Oman and Malaysia signed an agreement for Oman to import frozen chicken from Malaysia, costing RM120 million. Oman imports most of its food, up to 80%.
In 2011, Shell Malaysia Trading Sdn Bhd (SMTSB) signed a sale and purchase agreement with Oman's National Gas Co SAOG (NGC) to divest its liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) business in West Malaysia at an undisclosed amount. An agreement in cyber security co-operation was also signed between the two countries in 2015.
As of 2013, there are around 1,300 Omani students in Malaysia with 30,000 tourists from Oman have visiting Malaysia, while 1,000 Malaysians are working in Oman mainly in oil and gas, construction medical and as academicians. As of 2017, both countries are working to increase their trade relationship. In 2022, Omani ambassador Sheikh Al-Abbas Ibrahim Hamed Al Harthi said that the countries continue to have a positive relationship.


== Transport ==
Oman Air operates direct flights between Muscat and Kuala Lumpur and from Muscat to Penang. 


== See also ==
Foreign relations of Malaysia
Foreign relations of Oman


== References ==

The Big Dig was a megaproject in Boston that rerouted the elevated Central Artery of Interstate 93 into the O'Neill Tunnel and built the Ted Williams Tunnel to extend Interstate 90 to Logan International Airport. Those two projects were the origin of the official name, the Central Artery/Tunnel Project (CA/T Project). The megaproject constructed the Zakim Bunker Hill Bridge over the Charles River, created the Rose Kennedy Greenway in the space vacated by the previous elevated roadway and funded more than a dozen projects to improve the region's public transportation system. Planning began in 1982 and construction was carried out between 1991 and 2006. The project concluded in December 2007.
The project's general contractor was Bechtel, with Parsons Brinckerhoff as the engineers, who worked as a consortium, both overseen by the Massachusetts Highway Department. The Big Dig was the most expensive highway project in the United States, and was plagued by cost overruns, delays, leaks, design flaws, accusations of poor execution and use of substandard materials, criminal charges and arrests, and the death of one motorist.
The project was originally scheduled to be completed in 1998 at an estimated cost of $2.8 billion. The project was completed in December 2007 at $14.6 billion. As a result of a death, leaks, and other design flaws, the Parsons Brinckerhoff and Bechtel consortium agreed to pay $407 million in restitution, and several smaller companies agreed to pay a combined sum of approximately $51 million.


== Origin ==

This project was developed in response to the persistent and growing problem of traffic congestion on Boston's historically tangled and narrow streets, many of which were laid out centuries before the invention of the automobile. The layout, originally designed for horse-drawn carriages and pedestrian traffic, was never intended to accommodate modern vehicles, leading to chronic bottlenecks and delays that frustrated commuters and residents alike. As early as 1930, the city's Planning Board recognized the urgent need to address these traffic issues and recommended the construction of a raised express highway running north–south through the downtown district. The goal was to create a faster, more direct route that would allow through-traffic to bypass the congested city streets, reducing travel times and improving the flow of vehicles throughout the area.
Building on these early recommendations, Commissioner of Public Works William Callahan actively promoted detailed plans for what would become the Central Artery, an elevated expressway designed to run between the downtown district and the waterfront. The project was envisioned as a major infrastructure improvement that could transform urban mobility in Boston by separating local traffic from longer-distance through-traffic. Ultimately, the elevated expressway was constructed according to these plans, dramatically altering the cityscape while addressing some of the long-standing traffic challenges. Its development marked a pivotal moment in Boston's urban planning history, reflecting both the ambitions of city planners to modernize the transportation system and the broader nationwide trend during the mid-20th century toward building elevated highways through urban centers.
In the 1950s, Governor John Volpe interceded to change the design of the last section of the Central Artery, putting it underground through the Dewey Square Tunnel. While traffic moved somewhat better, the other problems remained. There was chronic congestion on the Central Artery (I-93), the elevated six-lane highway through the center of downtown Boston, which was, in the words of Pete Sigmund, "like a funnel full of slowly-moving, or stopped, cars (and swearing motorists)."
In 1959, the 1.5-mile-long (2.4-kilometer) road section carried approximately 75,000 vehicles a day. By the 1990s, this had grown to 190,000 vehicles a day. Traffic jams of 16 hours were predicted for 2010.
The expressway had tight turns, an excessive number of entrances and exits, entrance ramps without merge lanes, and as the decades passed and other planned expressways were cancelled, continually escalating vehicular traffic that was well beyond its design capacity. Local businesses again wanted relief, city leaders sought a reuniting of the waterfront with the city, and nearby residents desired removal of the matte green-painted elevated road, which mayor Thomas Menino called Boston's "other Green Monster", as an unfavorable comparison to Fenway Park's famed left-field wall. MIT engineers Bill Reynolds, and eventual state Secretary of Transportation Frederick P. Salvucci envisioned moving the whole expressway underground.


=== Cancellation of the Inner Belt project ===

Another important motivation for the final form of the Big Dig was the abandonment of the Massachusetts Department of Public Works' intended expressway system through and around Boston. The Central Artery, as part of Mass. DPW's Master Plan of 1948, was originally planned to be the downtown Boston stretch of Interstate 95, and was signed as such. A bypass road called the Inner Belt, was subsequently renamed Interstate 695. The law establishing the Interstate highway system was enacted in 1956.
The Inner Belt District was to pass to the west of the downtown core, through the neighborhood of Roxbury and the cities of Brookline, Cambridge, and Somerville. Earlier controversies over impact of the Boston extension of the Massachusetts Turnpike, particularly on the heavily populated neighborhood of Brighton, and the additional large amount of housing that would have had to be destroyed, led to massive community opposition to both the Inner Belt and the Boston section of I-95.
By 1970, building demolition and land clearances had been completed along the I-95 right of way through the neighborhoods of Roxbury, Jamaica Plain, the South End and Roslindale. This led to secession threats by Hyde Park, Boston's youngest and southernmost neighborhood, which I-95 was also slated to go through. By 1972, with relatively little work done on the Southwest Corridor portion of I-95 and none on the potentially massively disruptive Inner Belt, Governor Francis Sargent put a moratorium on highway construction within the Route 128 corridor, except for the final short stretch of Interstate 93. In 1974, the remainder of the Master Plan was canceled.
With ever-increasing traffic volumes funneled onto I-93 alone, the Central Artery became chronically gridlocked. The Sargent moratorium led to the rerouting of I-95 away from Boston around the Route 128 beltway, and the conversion of the cleared land in the southern part of the city into the Southwest Corridor linear park, and a new right-of-way for the Orange Line subway and Amtrak. Parts of the planned I-695 right-of-way remain unused and under consideration for future mass-transit projects.
The original 1948 Master Plan included a Third Harbor Tunnel plan that was hugely controversial in its own right, because it would have disrupted the Maverick Square area of East Boston. It was never built.


=== Mixing of traffic ===
A major reason for the all-day congestion was that the Central Artery carried north–south traffic and east–west traffic. Boston's Logan Airport lies across Boston Harbor in East Boston. Before the Big Dig, the only access to the airport from downtown was through the paired Callahan and Sumner tunnels. Traffic on the major highways from west of Boston—the Massachusetts Turnpike and Storrow Drive—mostly traveled on portions of the Central Artery to reach these tunnels. Getting between the Central Artery and the tunnels involved short diversions onto city streets, increasing local congestion.


=== Mass transit ===
A number of public transportation projects were included as part of an environmental mitigation for the Big Dig. The most expensive was the building of the Phase II Silver Line tunnel under Fort Point Channel, done in coordination with Big Dig construction. Silver Line buses now use this tunnel and the Ted Williams Tunnel to link South Station and Logan Airport.
Construction of the MBTA Green Line extension beyond Lechmere to Medford/Tufts station opened in December 2022. As of 2023, promised projects to connect the Red and Blue subway lines, and to restore the Green Line streetcar service to the Arborway in Jamaica Plain have not been completed. The Red and Blue subway line connection underwent initial design, but no funding has been designated for the project. The Arborway Line restoration has been abandoned, following a final court decision in 2011.
The original Big Dig plan included the North-South Rail Link, which would have connected North and South Stations, the major passenger train stations in Boston. This aspect of the project was dropped by the state transportation administration early in the Dukakis administration. Negotiations with the federal government had led to an agreement to widen some of the lanes in the new harbor tunnel, and accommodating these would require the tunnel to be deeper and mechanically vented. This left no room for the rail lines. Diesel trains, then in use, passing through the tunnel would have substantially increased the cost of the ventilation system.


== Early planning ==
The project was conceived in the 1970s by the Boston Transportation Planning Review to replace the rusting elevated six-lane Central Artery. The expressway separated downtown from the waterfront, and was increasingly choked with bumper-to-bumper traffic. Business leaders were more concerned about access to Logan Airport, and pushed instead for a third harbor tunnel.
In 1982, planning for the Big Dig as a project officially began. In 1983, environmental impact studies started. In 1987, after years of extensive lobbying for federal dollars, a public works bill appropriating funding for the Big Dig was passed by the US Congress, but it was vetoed by President Ronald Reagan for being too expensive. When Congress overrode the veto, the project had its green light. In 1991, ground was first broken.
In 1997, the state legislature created the Metropolitan Highway System and transferred responsibility for the Central Artery and Tunnel "CA/T" Project from the Massachusetts Highway Department and the Massachusetts Governor's Office to the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority (MTA).
The MTA, which had little experience in managing an undertaking of the scope and magnitude of the CA/T Project, hired a joint venture to provide preliminary designs, manage design consultants and construction contractors, track the project's cost and schedule, advise MTA on project decisions, and, in some instances, act as the MTA's representative. Eventually, MTA combined some of its employees with joint venture employees in an integrated project organization. This was intended to make management more efficient, but it hindered MTA's ability to independently oversee project activities because MTA and the joint venture had effectively become partners in the project.


== Obstacles ==
In addition to political and financial difficulties, the project received resistance from residents of Boston's historic North End, who in the 1950s had seen 20% of the neighborhood's businesses displaced by development of the Central Artery. In 1993, the North End Waterfront Central Artery Committee (NEWCAC) was created, co-founded by Nancy Caruso, representing residents, businesses, and institutions in the North End and Waterfront neighborhoods of Boston. The NEWCAC Committee's goal included lessening the impact of the Central Artery/Tunnel Project on the community, representing the neighborhoods to government agencies, keeping the community informed, developing a list of priorities of immediate neighborhood concerns, and promoting responsible and appropriate development of the post-construction artery corridor in the North End and Waterfront neighborhoods.
The political, financial and residential obstacles were magnified when several environmental and engineering obstacles occurred. The downtown area through which the tunnels were to be dug was largely land fill, and included existing Red Line and Blue Line subway tunnels as well as innumerable pipes and utility lines that would have to be replaced or moved. Tunnel workers encountered many unexpected geological and archaeological barriers, ranging from glacial debris to foundations of buried houses and a number of sunken ships lying within the reclaimed land.
The project received approval from state environmental agencies in 1991, after satisfying concerns including release of toxins by the excavation and the possibility of disrupting the homes of millions of rats, causing them to roam the streets of Boston in search of new housing. By the time the federal environmental clearances were delivered in 1994, the process had taken some seven years, during which time inflation greatly increased the project's original cost estimates.
Reworking such a busy corridor without seriously restricting traffic flow required a number of state-of-the-art construction techniques. Because the old elevated highway, which remained in operation throughout the construction process, rested on pylons located throughout the designated dig area, engineers first utilized slurry wall techniques to create 120-foot-deep (37 m) concrete walls upon which the highway could rest. These concrete walls also stabilized the sides of the site, preventing cave-ins during the continued excavation process.
The multi-lane Interstate highway also had to pass under South Station's seven railroad tracks, which carried over 40,000 commuters and 400 trains per day. To avoid multiple relocations of train lines while the tunneling advanced, as had been initially planned, a specially designed jack was constructed to support the ground and tracks to allow the excavation to take place below. Construction crews also used ground freezing (an artificial induction of permafrost) to help stabilize surrounding ground as they excavated the tunnel. This was the largest tunneling project undertaken beneath railroad lines anywhere in the world. The ground freezing enabled safer, more efficient excavation, and also assisted in environmental issues, as less contaminated fill needed to be exported than if a traditional cut-and-cover method had been applied.
Other challenges included existing subway tunnels crossing the path of the underground highway. To build slurry walls past these tunnels, it was necessary to dig beneath the tunnels and to build an underground concrete bridge to support the tunnels' weight, without interrupting rail service.


== Construction phase ==

The project was managed by the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority, with the Big Dig and the Turnpike's Boston Extension from the 1960s being financially and legally joined by the legislature as the Metropolitan Highway System. Design and construction was supervised by a joint venture of Bechtel Corporation and Parsons Brinckerhoff. Because of the enormous size of the project—too large for any company to undertake alone—the design and construction of the Big Dig was broken up into dozens of smaller subprojects with well-defined interfaces between contractors. Major heavy-construction contractors on the project included Jay Cashman, Modern Continental, Obayashi Corporation, Perini Corporation, Peter Kiewit Sons' Incorporated, J. F. White, and the Slattery division of Skanska USA. Of those, Modern Continental was awarded the greatest gross value of contracts, joint ventures included.

The nature of the Charles River crossing had been a source of major controversy throughout the design phase of the project. Many environmental advocates preferred a river crossing entirely in tunnels, but this, along with 27 other plans, was rejected as too costly. With a deadline looming to begin construction on a separate project that would connect the Tobin Bridge to the Charles River crossing, Salvucci overrode the objections and chose a variant of the plan known as "Scheme Z". This plan was considered to be reasonably cost-effective, but had the drawback of requiring highway ramps stacked up as high as 100 feet (30 m) immediately adjacent to the Charles River.
The city of Cambridge objected to the visual impact of the chosen Charles River crossing design. The city sued to revoke the project's environmental certificate and forced the project planners to redesign the river crossing again.

Swiss engineer Christian Menn took over the design of the bridge. He suggested a cradle cable-stayed bridge that would carry ten lanes of traffic. The plan was accepted and construction began on the Leonard P. Zakim Bunker Hill Memorial Bridge. The bridge employed an asymmetrical design and a hybrid of steel and concrete was used to construct it. The distinctive bridge, designed by Boston-based architect Miguel Rosales, is supported by two forked towers connected to the span by cables and girders. It was the first bridge in the country to employ this method and it was, at the time, the widest cable-stayed bridge in the world, having since been surpassed by the Eastern span replacement of the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge.
Meanwhile, construction continued on the Tobin Bridge approach. By the time all parties agreed on the I-93 design, construction of the Tobin connector, today known as the "City Square Tunnel" for a Charlestown area it bypasses, was far along, significantly adding to the cost of constructing the US Route 1 interchange and retrofitting the tunnel. 
Boston blue clay and other soils extracted from the path of the tunnel were used to cap many local landfills, fill in the Granite Rail Quarry in Quincy, and restore the surface of Spectacle Island in the Boston Harbor Islands National Recreation Area.
The Storrow Drive Connector, a companion bridge to the Zakim, began carrying traffic from I-93 to Storrow Drive in 1999. The project had been under consideration for years, but was opposed by the wealthy residents of the Beacon Hill neighborhood. It was finally accepted because it would funnel traffic bound for Storrow Drive and downtown Boston away from the mainline roadway. The Connector ultimately used a pair of ramps that had been constructed for Interstate 695, enabling the mainline I-93 to carry more traffic that would have used I-695 under the original Master Plan.
When construction began, the project cost, including the Charles River crossing, was estimated at $5.8 billion. Eventual cost overruns were so high that the chairman of the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority, James Kerasiotes, was fired in 2000. His replacement had to commit to an $8.55 billion cap on federal contributions. The total expenses eventually passed $15 billion. Interest brought this cost to $21.93 billion.


=== Engineering methods and details ===

Several unusual engineering challenges arose during the project, requiring unusual solutions and methods to address them. At the beginning of the project, engineers had to figure out the safest way to build the tunnel without endangering the existing elevated highway above. Eventually, they created horizontal braces as wide as the tunnel, then cut away the elevated highway's struts, and shifted  its weight onto the new braces.
Three alternative construction methods were studied with their corresponding structural design to address existing conditions, safety measures, and constructability. In addition to codified loads, construction loads were computed to support final design and field execution.


== Final phases ==

On January 18, 2003, the opening ceremony was held for the I-90 Connector Tunnel, extending the Massachusetts Turnpike (Interstate 90) east into the Ted Williams Tunnel, and onwards to Boston Logan International Airport. The Ted Williams tunnel had been completed and was in limited use for commercial traffic and high-occupancy vehicles since late 1995. The westbound lanes opened on the afternoon of January 18 and the eastbound lanes on January 19.
The northbound lanes of the I-93 tunnel opened on March 29, 2003. A temporary ramp from I-90 westbound to I-93 southbound opened on December 6, 2003, as did Cross Street on the surface. The southbound lanes of the I-93 tunnel opened on December 20, 2003. A tunnel underneath Leverett Circle connecting eastbound Storrow Drive to I-93 North and the Tobin Bridge opened December 19, 2004, easing congestion at the circle. All southbound lanes of I-93 opened to traffic on March 5, 2005, including the left lane of the Zakim Bridge, and all of the refurbished Dewey Square Tunnel.
By the end of December 2004, 95% of the Big Dig was completed. Major construction remained on the surface, including construction of final ramp configurations in the North End and in the South Bay interchange, and reconstruction of the surface streets.
The final ramp downtown – exit 16A (formerly 20B) from I-93 south to Albany Street – opened January 13, 2006.
In 2006, the two Interstate 93 tunnels were dedicated as the Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. Tunnel, after the former Democratic speaker of the House of Representatives from Massachusetts who pushed to have the Big Dig funded by the federal government.


== Coordinated projects ==
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts was required under the Federal Clean Air Act to mitigate air pollution generated by the highway improvements. Secretary of Transportation Fred Salvucci signed an agreement with the Conservation Law Foundation in 1990 enumerating 14 specific projects the state agreed to build. This list was affirmed in a 1992 lawsuit settlement.
Projects which have been completed include:

Restoration of three Old Colony commuter rail lines (Middleborough/Lakeville Line, Plymouth/Kingston Line, and Greenbush Line)
Expansion of Framingham Line to serve Worcester full-time
Restoration of the Newburyport/Rockport Line
Six-car trains on the MBTA Blue Line, requiring platform lengthening, station modernization, and all new train cars
MBTA Silver Line, a bus rapid transit route to the South Boston waterfront and East Boston, including the airport
1,000 new commuter parking spaces
Fairmount Line improvements
Green Line Extension
However, some projects were removed:

Design of the Red-Blue Connector
Restoration of Green Line E branch service to Arborway


=== Surface treatments ===
Some surface treatments that were part of the original project plan were dropped due to the massive cost overruns on the highway portion of the project.
$99.1 million was allocated for mitigating improvements to the Charles River Basin, including the construction of North Point Park in Cambridge and Paul Revere Park in Charlestown. The North Bank Bridge, providing pedestrian and bicycle connectivity between the parks, was not funded until the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Nashua Street Park on the Boston side was completed in 2003, by McCourt Construction with $7.9 million in funding from MassDOT.
As of 2017, $30.5 million had been transferred to the Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation to complete five projects. Another incomplete but required project is the South Bank Bridge over the MBTA Commuter Rail tracks at North Station (connecting Nashua Street Park to the proposed South Bank Park, which is currently a parking lot under the Zakim Bridge at the Charles River locks).
Improvements in the lower Charles River Basin include the new walkway at Lovejoy Wharf (constructed by the developer of 160 North Washington Street, the new headquarters of Converse), the Lynch Family Skate Park (constructed in 2015 by the Charles River Conservancy), rehabilitation of historic operations buildings for the Charles River Dam and lock, a maintenance facility, and a planned pedestrian walkway across the Charles River next to the MBTA Commuter Rail drawbridge at North Station (connecting Nashua Street Park and North Point Park). MassDOT is funding the South Bank Park, and replacement of the North Washington Street Bridge (construction Aug 2018–23).
EF Education is funding public greenspace improvements as part of its three-phase expansion at North Point. Remaining funding may be used to construct the North Point Inlet pedestrian bridge, and a pedestrian walkway over Leverett Circle. Before being replaced with surface access during the reconstruction of the Science Park MBTA Green Line station, Leverett Circle had pedestrian bridges with stairs that provided elevated access between the station, the Charles River Parks, and the sidewalk to the Boston Museum of Science. The replacement ramps would comply with Americans with Disabilities Act requirements and allow easy travel by wheelchair or bicycle over the busy intersection.


=== Public art ===

While not a legally mandated requirement, public art was part of the urban design planning process, and later design development work, through the Artery Arts Program. The intent of the program was to integrate public art into highway infrastructure (retaining walls, fences, and lighting) and the essential elements of the pedestrian environment (walkways, park landscape elements, and bridges). As overall project costs increased, the Artery Arts Program was seen as a potential liability, even though there was support and interest from the public and professional arts organizations in the area.
At the beginning of the highway design process, a temporary arts program was initiated, and over 50 proposals were selected. Development began on only a few projects before funding for the program was cut. Permanent public art that was funded includes: super graphic text and facades of former West End houses cast into the concrete elevated highway abutment support walls near North Station by artist Sheila Levrant de Bretteville; Harbor Fog, a sensor-activated mist, light and sound sculptural environment by artist Ross Miller in parcel 17; a historical sculpture celebrating the 18th and 19th century shipbuilding industry and a bust of shipbuilder Donald McKay in East Boston; blue interior lighting of the Zakim Bridge; and the Miller's River Littoral Way walkway and lighting under the loop ramps north of the Charles River.
Extensive landscape planting, as well as a maintenance program to support the plantings, was requested by many community members during public meetings. 


== Impact on traffic ==

The Big Dig separated the co-mingled traffic from the Massachusetts Turnpike and the Sumner and Callahan tunnels. While only one net lane in each direction was added to the north–south I-93, several new east–west lanes became available. East–west traffic on the Massachusetts Turnpike/I-90 now proceeds directly through the Ted Williams Tunnel to Logan Airport and Route 1A beyond. Traffic between Storrow Drive and the Callahan and Sumner Tunnels still uses a short portion of I-93, but additional lanes and direct connections are provided for this traffic.
The result was a 62% reduction in vehicle hours of travel on I-93, the airport tunnels, and the connection from Storrow Drive, from an average 38,200 hours per day before construction (1994–1995) to 14,800 hours per day in 2004–2005, after the project was largely complete. The savings for travelers was estimated at $166 million annually in the same 2004–2005 time frame. Travel times on the Central Artery northbound during the afternoon peak hour were reduced 85.6%.
A 2008 Boston Globe report asserted that waiting time for the majority of trips actually increased as a result of demand induced by the increased road capacity. Because more drivers were opting to use the new roads, traffic bottlenecks were only pushed outward from the city, not reduced or eliminated (although some trips are now faster). The report states, "Ultimately, many motorists going to and from the suburbs at peak rush hours are spending more time stuck in traffic, not less." The Globe also asserted that their analysis provides a fuller picture of the traffic situation than a state-commissioned study done two years earlier, in which the Big Dig was credited with helping to save at least $167 million a year by increasing economic productivity and decreasing motor vehicle operating costs. That study did not look at highways outside the Big Dig construction area and did not take into account new congestion elsewhere.


== Impact on property values ==
Towards the end of the Big Dig in 2003, it was estimated that the demolition of the Central Artery highway would cause a $732 million increase in property value in Boston's financial district, with the replacement parks providing an additional $252 million in value. As a result of the Big Dig, a large amount of waterfront space was opened up, which is now a high-rent residential and commercial area called the Seaport District. The development of Seaport alone was estimated to create $7 billion in private investment and 43,000 jobs.


== Operations Control Center (OCC) ==

As part of the project, an elaborate Operations Control Center (OCC) control room was constructed in South Boston. Staffed on a "24/7/365" basis, this center monitors and reports on traffic congestion, and responds to emergencies. Continuous video surveillance is provided by hundreds of cameras, and thousands of sensors monitor traffic speed and density, air quality, water levels, temperatures, equipment status, and other conditions inside the tunnel. The OCC can activate emergency ventilation fans, change electronic display signs, and dispatch service crews when necessary.


== Problems ==


=== Leaks ===
As far back as 2001, Turnpike Authority officials and contractors knew of thousands of leaks in ceiling and wall fissures, extensive water damage to steel supports and fireproofing systems, and overloaded drainage systems. Many of the leaks were a result of Modern Continental and other subcontractors failing to remove gravel and other debris before pouring concrete. This information was not made public until engineers at MIT (volunteer students and professors) performed several experiments and found serious problems with the tunnel.
On September 15, 2004, a major leak in the I-93 north tunnel forced the closure of the tunnel while repairs were conducted. This also forced the Turnpike Authority to release information regarding its non-disclosure of prior leaks. A follow-up reported on "extensive" leaks that were more severe than state authorities had previously acknowledged. The report went on to state that the tunnel system had more than 400 leaks. A Boston Globe report countered that by stating there were nearly 700 leaks in a single 1,000-foot (300 m) section of tunnel beneath South Station. Turnpike officials also stated that the number of leaks being investigated was down from 1,000 to 500.
The problem of leaks is further aggravated by the fact that many of them involve corrosive salt water. This is caused by the proximity of Boston Harbor and the Atlantic Ocean, causing a mix of salt and fresh water leaks in the tunnel. The situation is made worse by road salt spread in the tunnel to melt ice during freezing weather, or brought in by vehicles passing through. Salt water and salt spray are well-known issues that must be dealt with in any marine environment. It has been reported that "hundreds of thousands of gallons of salt water are pumped out monthly" in the Big Dig, and a map has been prepared showing "hot spots" where water leakage is especially serious. Salt-accelerated corrosion has caused ceiling light fixtures to fail (see below), but can also cause rapid deterioration of embedded rebar and other structural steel reinforcements holding the tunnel walls and ceiling in place.


=== Substandard materials ===
Massachusetts State Police searched the offices of Aggregate Industries, the largest concrete supplier for the underground portions of the project, in June 2005. They seized evidence that Aggregate delivered concrete that did not meet contract specifications. In March 2006 Massachusetts Attorney General Tom Reilly announced plans to sue project contractors and others because of poor work on the project. Over 200 complaints were filed by the state of Massachusetts as a result of leaks, cost overruns, quality concerns, and safety violations. In total, the state has sought approximately $100 million from the contractors ($1 for every $141 spent).
In May 2006, six employees of the company were arrested and charged with conspiracy to defraud the United States. The employees were accused of reusing old concrete and double-billing loads. In July 2007, Aggregate Industries settled the case with an agreement to pay $50 million. $42 million of the settlement went to civil cases and $8 million was paid in criminal fines. The company will provide $75 million in insurance for maintenance as well as pay $500,000 toward routine checks on areas suspected to contain substandard concrete.
In July 2009, two of the accused, Gerard McNally and Keith Thomas, both managers, pled guilty to charges of conspiracy, mail fraud, and filing false reports. The following month, the remaining four, Robert Prosperi, Mark Blais, Gregory Stevenson, and John Farrar, were found guilty on conspiracy and fraud charges. The four were sentenced to probation and home confinement and Blais and Farrar were additionally sentenced to community service.


=== Fatal ceiling collapse ===

A fatal accident raised safety questions and closed part of the project for most of the summer of 2006. On July 10, 2006, concrete ceiling panels and debris weighing 26 short tons (24 tonnes) and measuring 20 by 40 ft (6.1 by 12.2 m) fell on a car traveling on the two-lane ramp connecting northbound I-93 to eastbound I-90 in South Boston, killing Milena Del Valle, who was a passenger, and injuring her husband, Angel Del Valle, who was driving.
Immediately following the fatal ceiling collapse, Governor Mitt Romney ordered a "stem-to-stern" safety audit conducted by the engineering firm of Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, Inc. to look for additional areas of risk. Said Romney: "We simply cannot live in a setting where a project of this scale has the potential of threatening human life, as has already been seen".
The collapse and closure of the tunnel greatly snarled traffic in the city. The resulting traffic jams are cited as contributing to the death of another person, a heart attack victim who died en route to Boston Medical Center when his ambulance was caught in one such traffic jam two weeks after the collapse. On September 1, 2006, one eastbound lane of the connector tunnel was re-opened to traffic.
Following extensive inspections and repairs, Interstate 90 east- and westbound lanes reopened in early January 2007. The final piece of the road network, a high occupancy vehicle lane connecting Interstate 93 north to the Ted Williams Tunnel, reopened on June 1, 2007.
On July 10, 2007, after a lengthy investigation, the National Transportation Safety Board found that epoxy glue used to hold the roof in place during construction was not appropriate for long-term bonding. This was determined to be the cause of the roof collapse. The Power-Fast Epoxy Adhesive used in the installation was designed for short-term loading, such as wind or earthquake loads, not long-term loading, such as the weight of a panel.
Powers Fasteners, the makers of the adhesive, revised their product specifications on May 15, 2007, to increase the safety factor from 4 to 10 for all of their epoxy products intended for use in overhead applications. The safety factor on Power-Fast Epoxy was increased from 4 to 16. On December 24, 2007, the Del Valle family announced they had reached a settlement with Powers Fasteners that would pay the family $6 million. In December 2008, Powers Fasteners agreed to pay $16 million to the state to settle manslaughter charges.


=== "Ginsu guardrails" ===
Public safety workers have called the walkway safety handrails in the Big Dig tunnels "Ginsu guardrails", because the squared-off edges of the support posts have caused mutilations and deaths of passengers ejected from crashed vehicles. After an eighth reported death involving the safety handrails, MassDOT officials announced plans to cover or remove the allegedly dangerous fixtures, but only near curves or exit ramps. This partial removal of hazards has been criticized by a safety specialist, who suggests that the handrails are just as dangerous in straight sections of the tunnel.


=== Lighting fixtures ===
In March 2011, it became known that senior MassDOT officials had failed to disclose an issue with the lighting fixtures in the O'Neill tunnel. In early February 2011, a maintenance crew found a fixture lying in the middle travel lane in the northbound tunnel. Assuming it to be simple road debris, the maintenance team picked it up and brought it back to its home facility. The next day, a supervisor passing through the yard realized that the 120 lb (54 kg) fixture was not road debris but was in fact one of the fixtures used to light the tunnel itself. Further investigation revealed that the fixture's mounting apparatus had failed, due to galvanic corrosion of incompatible metals, caused by having aluminum in direct contact with stainless steel, in the presence of salt water. The electrochemical potential difference between stainless steel and aluminum is in the range of 0.5 to 1.0V, depending on the exact alloys involved, and can cause considerable corrosion within months under unfavorable conditions.
After the discovery of the reason why the fixture had failed, a comprehensive inspection of the other fixtures in the tunnel revealed that numerous other fixtures were also in the same state of deterioration. Some of the worst fixtures were temporarily shored up with plastic ties. Moving forward with temporary repairs, members of the MassDOT administration team decided not to let the news of the systemic failure and repair of the fixtures be released to the public or to Governor Deval Patrick's administration.
As of April 2012, it appeared that all of the 25,000 light fixtures would have to be replaced, at an estimated cost of $54 million. The replacement work was mostly done at night, and required lane closures or occasional closing of the entire tunnel for safety, and was estimated to take up to two years to complete.


== See also ==
Vincent Zarrilli – critic of the Big Dig who proposed the Boston Bypass
Alaskan Way Viaduct replacement tunnel – similar project in Seattle, Washington
International:

Carmel Tunnels – similar project in Haifa, Israel
Central–Wan Chai Bypass – similar project in the areas of Central, Wan Chai and Causeway Bay, within Victoria City, Hong Kong
WestConnex – project of similar scope and scale in Sydney, New South Wales, Australia
Dublin Port Tunnel – similar project on a smaller scale in Dublin, Ireland
Gardiner Expressway – an elevated freeway in Toronto with similar future plans
Autopista de Circunvalación M-30, Túneles de la M-30 and Parque Madrid Río – similar project along the banks of Manzanares River, Madrid, Spain
Blanka tunnel complex – similar project in Prague, Czech Republic and the longest city tunnel in Europe (6.4 km / 4.0 mi)
Yamate Tunnel – similar project on a larger scale in Tokyo, Japan


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Lewsi, Ann-Eliza H., ed. (2001). Highway to the Past: The Archaeology of Boston's Big Dig (PDF). Massachusetts Historical Commission. Archived from the original (PDF) on March 17, 2018.


== External links ==

Official site
Official site (2000–2004) at the Wayback Machine (archived December 8, 2004)
Official site (2005–2007) at the Wayback Machine (archived July 5, 2007)
The Big Dig: The Story of America's Most Expensive Road—GBH News (podcast)
The Big Dig: The Story of America's Most Expensive Road—via YouTube
Boston CA/T Project History at MIT Rotch Library at the Wayback Machine (archived April 3, 2005)

Grigorovo (Russian: Григорово) is a rural locality (a village) in Ivanovsky District, Ivanovo Oblast, Russia. Population: 15 (2010 census);  


== Geography ==
This rural locality is located 18 km from Ivanovo (the district's administrative centre and capital of Ivanovo Oblast) and 239 km from Moscow. Strelkovo Pervoye is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

Hamish John William Gardiner (born 4 January 1991) is an Australian-born Scottish cricketer. He made his One Day International (ODI) debut against Australia on 3 September 2013  at The Grange Club.
Gardiner was born in Brisbane but spent time growing up in Edinburgh.


== References ==

The 1905–06 İstanbul Football League season was the second season of the league. Cadi-Keuy FC won the league for the first time. 


== Season ==


== References ==
1905-1906 İstanbul Futbol Ligi. Türk Futbol Tarihi vol. 1. page(29). (June 1992) Türkiye Futbol Federasyonu Yayınları.

Gazipur Safari Park or Safari Park, Gazipur is a safari park in Gazipur, Bangladesh. This safari park is spread over 3,810 acres (1,540 ha) of Sal Forest which makes it one of the largest safari parks in the world and the largest in Asia. It was inaugurated on October 31, 2013. It is located about 40 km (25 mi) north of Bangladesh's capital city Dhaka near the Dhaka — Mymensingh Highway.
The park is divided into 6 major sections: Core Safari, Safari Kingdom, Biodiversity Park, Extensive Asian Safari Park, Bangabandhu Square & Children's Park.
After the July Revolution and the depose of Sheikh Hasina's oppressive rule in Bangladesh, the naming of the park has been the subject of constant opposition since it bore the name of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, as it was formerly known as Sheikh Mujib Safari Park. The nameplate at the main gate of the park and a few other areas were subjected to vandalism. The name of the park was then changed following the revolution and the park has been opened for visitors since 15 November 2024.


== Animals ==
This safari park is home to 47 species of animals and birds out of which 28 species are local. The total population of animals and birds is about 3000. Most notable are:

Tiger
Lion
Elephant
Zebra
Deer
Swan
Butterfly
Duck
Snake
Bear
Peafowl
Nilgai
Hippopotamus
Alligator
Kangaroo
Gharial


== Core Safari ==
Only authorized buses can enter into this zone. But visitors can see the animals in natural environment while sitting inside the bus. This zone is made up with 1,335 acres (540 ha) of land in which 20 acres (8.1 ha) of land for tiger, 21 acres (8.5 ha) of land for lion, 8.50 acres (3.44 ha) of land for black bear, 8 acres (3.2 ha) of land for African cheetah, 81.50 acres (32.98 ha) of land for chital, 80 acres (32 ha) of land for gaur, 105 acres (42 ha) of land for elephant, 35 acres (14 ha) of land for hippo, 22 acres (8.9 ha) of land for deer, 25 acres (10 ha) of land for nilgai, 407 acres (165 ha) of land for buffalo and 290 acres (120 ha) of land for African safari.


== Reception ==
The Daily Star called the Safari Park "one of the best latest tourist additions". The park attracts regular visitors from Dhaka.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Gazipur Safari Park at Wikimedia Commons

Viscount Rochford is a title that has been created twice in the Peerage of England.
The first creation was made in favour of Sir Thomas Boleyn in 1525 by King Henry VIII. The title was taken from Boleyn's Rochford Hall country estate in Essex. In 1529, Thomas was promoted even further when the King created him Earl of Wiltshire. In that same year, Thomas also inherited the wealth and title of his mother's ancestors, the Earls of Ormond. Thus,  Thomas's only son, George became known by the courtesy title of Viscount Rochford.
The title fell out of use as a courtesy title in 1536 when George Boleyn was executed on false charges of treason. It became extinct when Thomas died in 1539. In 1542, Jane Boleyn, Viscountess Rochford, George's widow, was also executed after she was implicated in the fall of Queen Catherine Howard.
The title was recreated in 1619 for Thomas Boleyn's great-great-grandson Henry Carey, 4th Baron Hunsdon, who was created Earl of Dover in 1628. Both titles became extinct on the death of the second Earl in 1677.


== Viscounts Rochford, 1st creation (1525) ==
Thomas Boleyn, 1st Earl of Wiltshire and 1st Earl of Ormond (c. 1477-1539)


== Viscounts Rochford, 2nd creation (1619) ==
Henry Carey, 1st Earl of Dover (c. 1580–1666)
John Carey, 2nd Earl of Dover (1608-1677)


== References ==

Free Creek was a band composed of many internationally renowned musical artists, including Eric Clapton, Jeff Beck, Keith Emerson, Mitch Mitchell and Linda Ronstadt, who recorded one album, in 1969, in a "super session" format.


== Personnel ==
Source:

Billy Chesboro - conductor
Earle Doud - conductor, vocals


=== Vocals ===


=== Brass, woodwinds, strings ===


=== Drums, percussion ===


=== Keyboards ===


=== Guitar, bass ===


== Discography ==
1973 Music From Free Creek (Charisma) (2 album set, reissued 1976 by Charisma Records as Summit Meeting.  CD reissue 2002 and 2006 by Lake Eerie Records; recorded 1969)


== References ==

Bucelas (historically known as Bucellas) is a Portuguese wine-region located in the Lisboa wine-region. The region has Portugal's highest wine classification as a Denominação de Origem Controlada (DOC). Located south of the Arruda DOC, the region is noted for its potential for cool fermentation white wine production. Vineyards in the area are planted on predominantly loam soils. The white wines of Bucelas became widely popular during  the Elizabethan era in England and again during the Victorian age. In London the wines were sometimes described as Portuguese hock because of their similarities to the German Rieslings from the Rhine. Urban sprawl in the 20th century has drastically reduced viticulture in the area, located north of the Portuguese capital city, Lisbon.


== History ==

Viticulture in Bucelas, located just north of Lisbon, has likely existed since Roman times. Historically a white wine, during the Elizabethan age it was popular among the English as a  fortified wine with wine historians believing that the wine was likely the same "Charneco" wine mentioned by William Shakespeare in the play Henry VI, Part 2 with Charneco being a local village in the Bucelas region. Eventually Bucelas was made as a non-fortified white wine, with British interests in the wine being revived during the Victorian age following the Peninsular War. During his time in Portugal, Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington discovered the wine and imported large quantities back to his estate in the United Kingdom. With Wellington's favor, soon Bucelas was a fashionable wine on the London wine market where it was known as Portuguese Hock.
During the 20th century, urban sprawl and development contributed to the decline of viticulture and winemaking in the region. By the early 1980s, all the vineyard lands in Bucelas was owned by a single wine estate with a poor reputation for quality. Towards the turn of the century, following a wave of enthusiasm and revival for Portuguese's indigenous grape varieties, new winemakers started to set up operation in the area to produce wines from the local grapes.


== Grapes and winemaking ==
The principal grapes of the Bucelas region includes Arinto and Esgana Cão. In the Victorian age, Bucelas' association as Portuguese Hock lead many in the wine industry to assume that its primary grape, Arinto, was somehow related to German wine grape Riesling. Ampelographers in the late 20th century were eventually able to disprove any relation between the two grapes. A characteristic of Arinto and its blending partner Esgana Cão, a name loosely translated to mean dog strangler, is their ability to retain high levels of acidity even in the warm sub-Mediterranean climate near Portugal's coast.
In recent years, Bucelas winemakers have been experimenting with different winemaking techniques including production of late harvest and sparkling wines made according to the traditional method.


== See also ==
List of Portuguese wine regions


== References ==

The Summit tram stop is a tram terminus situated on the Great Orme Tramway at the summit of the Great Orme in Llandudno, Wales. The Great Orme Tramway is a funicular, which connects the summit with a lower terminus at Victoria in the centre of Llandudno. From the summit station, access is available to the Great Orme Country Park Visitor Centre, the Summit Complex and cafe, a large outdoor playground, and the many walks on the Orme.
Trams run approximately every ten minutes to the Summit station, decreasing to every twenty minutes in off-peak times or during windy weather. Trams run seasonally only, from late March to late October.


== References ==

Ola Kvernberg (born 16 June 1981) is a Norwegian jazz musician known for his virtuosic string swing violin playing and his international performances. He is the son of traditional musicians Liv Rypdal Kvernberg and Torbjørn Kvernberg, and the brother of traditional musicians Kari Kvernberg Dajani and fiddler Jorun Marie Kvernberg, and grandson of the fiddler and traditional music composer Peter L. Rypdal. Kvernberg studied classical violin from the age of nine, and won 3rd prize in a great classical violin competition in Italy when he was fourteen.


== String swing with Hot Club de Norvège ==

Kvernberg was born in Fræna Municipality.  He began to play folk music at an early age and was classically trained through the municipal music school. His first record release was with the band Fear of flying in 1995. Two years later, when he was 16, he began playing jazz, and was educated on the Jazz program at Trondheim musikkonservatorium (2001–03).
Kvernberg spontaneously became known after a meeting with Hot Club de Norvège in 2000 during the annual Django Festival in Oslo, where he actually jammed with Toots Thielemans. This gave rise to release album Hot Club de Norvege presenting Ola Kvernberg and Jimmy Rosenberg (2000), the solo release Ola Kvernberg (2001), as well as participation on the record Angelo is back in town with Angelo Debarre (2001), which he also played with at the Django Festival in January 2002. In April 2002, Ola was soloist on Jon Larsen's jazz symphony White Night Stories, together with Hot Club de Norvège and Tromsø Symphony Orchestra, and on two recordings with this project.


== His own trio ==
Ola Kvernberg Trio with Steinar Raknes (bass) and Doug Raney (guitar) released the album Cats and Doug (Hot Club Records, 2002).
Erik Nylander (drums) replaced Raney on the production of Eboue Seck's Wolof Experience at
(Moldejazz 2005). On Vossajazz 2006, they play with Vidar Busk, accompanied by Håkon Mjåset Johansen (drums). The trio (with Nylander/Raknes) released the album Night (Jazzland, 2006) with the Kvernberg's own compositions.  People was published in 2009. The commissioned work Liarbird to the Jazz 2010 was released. For the record Liarbird he won the Spellemannprisen 2011 in the class jazz.


== Other collaborations ==
He played with Niels-Henning Ørsted Pedersen and Philip Catherine at Moldejazz 2004, and was involved in the Ingebrigt Håker Flaten Quintet, the trio Gammalgrass with Stian Carstensen and Ole Morten Vågan, in The Scarlatti Ensemble with Kim Myhr, Eirik Hegdal and Marianne Baudouin Lie, with Siri Gjære's Trønderhøns and as a guest in Banjovi with Finn Guttormsen, Stian Carstensen, Haakon Askeland, Kjartan Iversen and Knut Hem. In 2007 he was with Thomas Dybdahl on tour. In 2008 Kvernberg contributed on the Jon Larsen's The Jimmy Carl Black Story.
He is portrayed in the Stein Kagge's book Fra Satchmo til Ola Kvernberg (2001), and he is the brother of traditional musician Jorun Marie Kvernberg (1979).


== Honors ==
2010: Amanda Award, nominated, in the category best soundtrack for the movie Nord.
2011: Spellemannprisen (Norwegian Grammys) winner, Jazz album of the year, for Liarbird
2012: Kongsberg Jazz Award - winner
2013: Kanon Award winner, in the category best soundtrack for the movie Jag etter vind
2013: Amanda Award winner, in the category best soundtrack for the movie Jag etter vind
2015: Grand Scores nominated, in the category "Best Electro-Acoustic Score" for the movie Two Raging Grannies
2015: Kanon Award nominated, in the category best soundtrack for the movie Two Raging Grannies
2015: Spellemannprisen (Norwegian Grammys) nominated, Jazz album of the year, for The Mechanical Fair
2015: Spellemannprisen (Norwegian Grammys) nominated, mixed genres album of the year, for Obsolete Music 1
2016: Kanon Award nominated, in the category best soundtrack for the movie Staying Alive


== Discography ==


=== Solo albums ===
2001: Violin (Hot Club Records)
2014: Mechanical Fair (Jazzland Recordings), commission for Kongsberg Jazz Festival 2013, including with the Trondheim Soloists
2017: Steamdome (Grappa Music)
2021: Steamdome II: The Hypogean
2024: Steamdome III: Beyond the End
Within Ola Kvernberg Trio
2002: Cats and Doug (Hot Club Records), feat. the guitarist Doug Raney
2006: Night Driver (Jazzland Recordings), performing Kvernberg's compositions
2009: Folk (Jazzland Recordings)
2013: Northern Tapes (Jazzland Recordings)
Within Liarbird
2011: Liarbird (Jazzland Recordings), the commissioned work, live from Moldejazz 2010 including Bergmund Waal Skaslien (viola), Eirik Hegdal (saxophone), Mathias Eick (trumpet), Håkon Kornstad (saxophone), Ingebrigt Håker Flaten and Ole Morten Vågan (bass), as well as Erik Nylander and Torstein Lofthus (drums)
Within Grand General, quintet including Erlend Slettevoll, Even Helte Hermansen, Kenneth Kapstad and Trond Frønes
2013: Grand General (Rune Grammofon)


=== Collaborations ===
With Hot Club de Norvege
2000: Hot Club De Norvege Featuring Ola Kvernberg and Jimmy Rosenberg (Hot Club Records)
2005: White Night Live (Hot Club Records), feat. Ola Kvernberg and Tromsø Symphony Orchestra
Within Ingebrigt Håker Flaten Quintet
2006: Quintet (Jazzland Recordings)
2008: The Year Of The Boar (Jazzland Recordings)
Within Trondheim Jazz Orchestra
2006: Tribute (MNJ Records), feat. Vigleik Storaas
2007: Live In Oslo (MNJ Records), feat. Maria Kannegaard Trio
Within Team Hegdal sextet including Eirik Hegdal, André Roligheten, Rune Nergaard, Mattias Ståhl and Gard Nilssen
2011: Vol 2 (Øra Fonogram), including additional
Within Ingebrigt Håker Flaten Chicago Sextet, including Dave Rempis, Frank Rosaly, Jason Adasiewicz and Jeff Parker
2012: Ingebrigt Håker Flaten Chicago Sextet Live At Jazzfest Saalfelden (Tektite Records Co.Operative)
Within Gammalgrass
2013: Obsolete Music 1 (Division Records)
Within the trio Kirsti, Ola & Erik
2015: Rags & Silk (Name Music & Publishing)


=== Film music ===
2010: Nord Film Music (Jazzland Recordings), trio including Andreas Aase (guitars, mandolin, dobro) and Stian Carstensen (banjo), Ola Kvernbergs Filmmscore for the critically acclaimed Erlend Loe movie Nord
2010: Eksperimentet, a Danish drama film written and directed by Louise Friedberg, starring Ellen Hillingsø.
2013: Soundtrack for the movie Jag etter vind.


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website 
Ola Kvernberg Myspace.com
Thomas Dybdahl Official Website
Ola Kvernberg Trio at Sardinen USF November 16, 2012, Bergen Jazzforum on YouTube
Liarbird at Kolben Concert Hall September 17, 2011, Rikskonsertene on YouTube

The Zimbabwean government claimed to have foiled a coup d'état attempt involving almost 400 soldiers and high-ranking members of the military that would have occurred on June 2 or June 15, 2007. The alleged leaders of the coup, all of whom were arrested, were retired army Captain Albert Matapo, Colonel Ben Ncube, Major General Engelbert Rugeje, and Air Vice Marshal Elson Moyo.
According to the government, the soldiers planned on forcibly removing President Robert Mugabe from office and asking Rural Housing Minister Emmerson Mnangagwa to form a government with the heads of the armed forces.
Some analysts have speculated that rival successors to Mugabe, such as former Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army leader Solomon Mujuru, were possibly trying to discredit Mnangagwa.
Treason charges were laid against Matapo and other civilians, but no treason trial ever took place, for lack of evidence. However seven men (including Matapo, but not Ncube, Rugeje or Moyo), who were allegedly only trying to form a new political party, were held in prison for seven years (and allegedly severely tortured beforehand) before being released in 2014, and subsequently founding their new party.
Ncube, Rugeje, and Moyo were all reported under house arrest in June 2007, but all remained in the army.
Mnangagwa remained in office, and eventually replaced Mugabe as President of Zimbabwe after a successful coup d'état in November 2017.


== May arrest ==
The Zimbabwean government claimed to have foiled an alleged coup d'état attempt involving almost 400 soldiers and high-ranking members of the military that would have occurred on June 2 or June 15, 2007. The alleged leaders of the coup, all of whom were arrested, were retired army Captain Albert Matapo, Spokesman for the Zimbabwe National Army Colonel Ben Ncube, Major General Engelbert Rugeje (Quartermaster at Army HQ), and Air Vice Marshal Elson Moyo (deputy commander of the air force).
According to the government, the soldiers planned on forcibly removing President Robert Mugabe from office and asking Rural Housing Minister Emmerson Mnangagwa to form a government with the heads of the armed forces. The government first heard of the plot when a former army officer who opposed the coup contacted the police in Paris, France, giving them a map and a list of those involved. Mnangagwa and State Security Minister Didymus Mutasa both said they did not know about the plot, Mnangagwa calling it "stupid."
Some analysts have speculated that rival successors to Mugabe, such as former Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army leader Solomon Mujuru, were possibly trying to discredit Mnangagwa.
Gilbert Kagodora, treasurer for the Movement for Democratic Change political party in Mashonaland Central, said he and Matapo were arrested by men whom he suspected work for the Central Intelligence Organization at 2:PM on May 29 in Harare.

We had gone to meet Matapo for business together with three other party activists at Winston Court along Fourth Street. Initially, they told us that we were being arrested for dealing in foreign currency and they then proceeded to blindfold us with masking tape. They also tied our hands and took us into a van downstairs. I could not tell exactly where they were driving us to.
Kagodora said he and Matapo were put in a basement where he believed Military Intelligence Unit officials tortured him, using electrical rods to elicit confessions. Interrogators asked about MDC terror camps in South Africa, leaders and financiers of the plot, petrol bombers in the MDC, and the Democratic Resistance Committee. On June 1 Kagodora came into the custody of the Law and Order section at Harare Central Police Station. He said he heard interrogators asking Matapo to reveal the names of army and police officers with ties to the coup d'état. Police released Kagadora on June 4.


== Charges and aftermath ==
Several men, either on active duty or retired from the Zimbabwe National Army, were arrested between May 29 and early June. They were present in secret court hearings twice in which family members and journalists were not allowed to attend. The case was heard by the High Court. Prosecutors accuse Albert Matapo of leading the coup and trying to "recruit as many soldiers as possible to take over the government and all camps and be in control of the nation after which he will announce to the nation that he was in control of government and would invite Minister Mnangagwa and service chiefs to form a government." Albert Rugowe, formerly an officer in the army, was accused of recruiting military officials for the coup. Captain Shepherd Maromo and Olivine Morale were also on trial.
According to a military source in Harare, the coup leaders allegedly contacted Western governments and asked them if they would support the coup. "The general feedback was that the western countries would publicly condemn the coup and privately support it only if it would restore democracy in Zimbabwe."
Treason charges were laid against Matapo and other civilians, but no treason trial ever took place, for lack of evidence. However seven men, former Army Captain Albert Matapo (who had retired from the army 16 years earlier in 1991), and six others, Emmanuel Marara, Oncemore Mudzurahona, Partson Mupfure, Nyasha Zivuku, Rangarirai Mazivofa and Shingirai Webster Mutemachani, ended up spending seven years in Chikurubi Prison, before being released on March 1, 2014. Matapo claimed they were severely tortured during interrogation, including electrocution  to the genitals. He said they were not attempting a coup, and had no interest in supporting Mnangagwa (whom he deemed as bad as Mugabe, and potentially even worse than him), but were simply trying to form a political party,  now called United Crusade for Achieving Democracy (UCAD), which was eventually launched by them in Harare on August 1, 2014.
Senior officers reportedly under house arrest in June 2007, such as Colonel Ben Ncube, Major-General Engelbert Rugeje and Air Vice Marshal Elson Moyo, remained in the army.
Emmerson Mnangagwa remained in office, and 10 years later was sworn in as President of Zimbabwe on 24 November 2017, after the resignation of Robert Mugabe following the 2017 Zimbabwean coup d'état, a removal that was however recognized by the African Union as a legitimate expression of the will of the Zimbabwean people.


== References ==


== External links ==
Zimbabwe 'coup plotters' charged with treason
Zimbabwe: Army Investigates Reports of Coup Plot
Zimbabwe: Five Accused of Plotting Coup to Topple President

Vancouver is the most populous city in British Columbia, Canada.
Vancouver may also refer to:


== Places ==
Mount Vancouver, a mountain on the Yukon–Alaska border
Mount Vancouver (New Zealand), a mountain in the Southern Alps on the South Island of New Zealand


=== Canada ===
Greater Vancouver, a metropolitan area whose urban centre is Vancouver, British Columbia
Metro Vancouver Regional District, a British Columbia regional district that encompasses Vancouver and surrounding municipalities
Vancouver (electoral districts), electoral districts in Vancouver, British Columbia
Vancouver Island, a major landmass off the western coast of British Columbia
Vancouver River, a river emptying into Prince of Wales Reach of Jervis Inlet


=== United States ===
Vancouver, Washington
Fort Vancouver, a 19th-century fur trading post in present-day Vancouver
Vancouver Barracks, a former U.S. Army station near Fort Vancouver
Vancouver Lake, a lake in Clark County, Washington


== People with the surname ==
George Vancouver (1757–1798), British naval officer and explorer


== Vessels ==
Vancouver (1826 vessel), a vessel operated by the Hudson's Bay Company from 1826 to 1834
Vancouver (steamboat), a cargo steamer owned and operated by the Hudson's Bay Company from 1838 to 1848
Vancouver (1852 vessel), a vessel operated by the Hudson's Bay Company from 1852 to 1853
HMCS Vancouver, a Canadian navy ship name, and list of ships by that name
HMCS Vancouver (F6A), a Royal Canadian Navy S-class destroyer
HMCS Vancouver (FFH 331), a Canadian Forces Halifax-class frigate
HMS Vancouver, original name of the HMS Vimy, a V-class destroyer of the British Royal Navy
USS Vancouver, a US Navy Raleigh-class amphibious transport dock


== Music ==
Vancouver (album), 2009, by Matthew Good
Vancouver (EP), 2006, by La Dispute
Bobby Taylor & the Vancouvers, a 1960s-vintage Motown band


== Schools ==
Vancouver College (disambiguation)
Vancouver University (disambiguation)
Vancouver School Board, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
Vancouver Public Schools, Vancouver, Washington, United States


== Other uses ==
Canadian Vickers Vancouver, an interwar coastal patrol flying boat
Vancouver Expedition, a 1791 voyage commanded by George Vancouver
Vancouver FC, a professional soccer club based in Langley, British Columbia
Vancouver system, a citation style
Vancouver Special, an architectural style
Vancouverism, an urban planning and architectural phenomenon


== See also ==

All pages with titles beginning with Vancouver
All pages with titles containing Vancouver
Fort Vancouver (disambiguation)
Vancouver Metro (disambiguation), including Metro Vancouver
Vancouver East (disambiguation), including East Vancouver
North Vancouver (disambiguation), including Vancouver North
South Vancouver (disambiguation), including Vancouver South
West Vancouver, a city in Metro Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada
Vancouver Bay, British Columbia, Canada; a locality and former cannery town on Jervis Inlet
Vancouver School, style of photography and group of photographers

This is a list of universities in Spain, which are accredited by Spanish institutions to award academic degrees. The table shows both public (50) and private (46) universities that are registered in the Register of Universities, Centers and Qualifications (Registro de Universidades, Centros y Títulos (RUCT), in Spanish), established by means of Spanish Royal Decree 1509/2008 of 12 September 2008.


== See also ==
Higher education in Spain
List of colleges and universities by country
List of colleges and universities


== References ==

Ilya Ivashka was the defending champion but chose not to defend his title.
Nikola Milojević won the title after defeating Enrique López Pérez 6–3, 6–4 in the final.


== Seeds ==


== Draw ==
Key


=== Finals ===


=== Top half ===


=== Bottom half ===


== References ==
Main Draw
Qualifying Draw

Shenzhen (深圳市) is a city in China's Guangdong Province.
Shenzhen may also refer to:

Shenzhen (comics), a graphic novel
Shenzhen Airlines, airline headquartered in Shenzhen, China
2425 Shenzhen, a main-belt asteroid
Shenzhen, a Type 051B destroyer of the Chinese Navy
Shenzhen F.C., Chinese professional football club
Shenzhen Stock Exchange, stock exchange located in Shenzhen, China
Shenzhen Special Economic Zone, a special economic zone of Shenzhen, China
Shenzhen railway station, major railway station in Shenzhen, China


== See also ==
Schengen (disambiguation)
Shenzun (深圳里), Xinwu District, Taoyuan, Taiwan

Gandajika Airport (IATA: GDJ, ICAO: FZWC) was an airport serving Gandajika, a territory in the Kabinda district of the Kasaï-Oriental province, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The airport has been abandoned and is not visible on satellite imagery anymore.


== Facilities ==
The airport resided at an elevation of 2,618 feet (798 m) above mean sea level and had a runway which is 1,100 metres (3,610 ft) in length.


== References ==


== External links ==
Aeronautical chart at SkyVector
Accident history for GDJ at Aviation Safety Network

Australopacifica is a genus of land planarians of the tribe Caenoplanini. It was erected to include species lacking sufficient morphological information to allow them to be classified in the appropriate genus.
Australopacifica atrata (Steel, 1897), a species originally described from New South Wales, Australia has invaded the United Kingdom since 2015. Its complete mitogenome was described in 2022, and found to be similar to that of other Rhynchodeminae.


== Taxonomy ==
Many species of land planarians described during the second half of the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century were classified based solely on external characteristics. Currently, the land planarian genera are highly based on internal anatomy, especially the anatomy of the copulatory apparatus. As a result, species with old descriptions that were never redescribed, so that their internal anatomy remains unknown, cannot be assigned to the correct genus. Thus, the genus Australopacifica was erected to temporarily accommodate species of the tribe Caenoplanini, whose anatomy of the copulatory apparatus is still unknown.


== Species ==
The genus Australopacifica currently contains the following species:


== References ==

Harold Capistran Hollenbeck (born December 29, 1938) is an American lawyer and Republican Party politician who represented New Jersey's 9th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives for three terms from 1977 to 1983.


== Life and career ==
Born in Passaic, New Jersey, Hollenbeck grew up in East Rutherford, New Jersey and graduated from East Rutherford High School. He received a B.A. from Fairleigh Dickinson University, Rutherford (1961) and was awarded an LL.B. from the University of Virginia in 1964. He was admitted to the New Jersey bar in 1965 and commenced practice in Ridgewood. He served as member of the East Rutherford Borough Council from 1967 to 1969, and in the New Jersey General Assembly from 1968 to 1972. He was in the New Jersey Senate from 1972 to 1974. He served as delegate to the 1968 Republican National Convention.


=== Congress ===
Hollenbeck was elected as a Republican to the Ninety-fifth Congress, unseating scandal-tainted Democrat Henry Helstoski by a solid margin.  He was reelected the two succeeding Congresses (January 3, 1977 to January 3, 1983) and compiled a moderate, pro-labor record. He was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1982 to the Ninety-eighth Congress, a victim of redistricting and negative campaigning by Robert Torricelli, who unseated him by a 54% to 46% margin.


=== Later life and career ===
He was appointed a judge by Governor of New Jersey Thomas Kean, to the New Jersey Superior Court and sworn in July 1, 1987, and subsequently moved to family court.
He has been a resident of Ridgewood, New Jersey.


== References ==


== External links ==
United States Congress. "Harold C. Hollenbeck (id: H000722)". Biographical Directory of the United States Congress.

 This article incorporates public domain material from Biographical Directory of the United States Congress. Federal government of the United States.

Henry of Antioch (French: Henri; 1217 – 27 June 1276) was a nobleman from the Latin East who governed the Kingdom of Jerusalem from 1263 until 1264. He was made bailli by his wife, Isabella of Cyprus, who exercised regency on behalf of their nephew King Hugh II of Cyprus. He died in a shipwreck after their son, Hugh III, became king of both Cyprus and Jerusalem.


== Family ==
Henry was born in 1217. He was the youngest of the four sons of Prince Bohemond IV of Antioch and his first wife, Plaisance Embriaco. Bohemond IV had a tense relationship with the Ibelin family becauzse they opposed the idea that his son Bohemond V should govern the Kingdom of Cyprus after marrying Queen Alice, mother of King Henry I. He reconciled with the Ibelins in order to resist the ambitions of Emperor Frederick II, who attempted to assert his authority over the Crusader states. The young Bohemond's marriage to Alice was annulled, and the prince of Antioch instead readily consented to John of Ibelin's suggestion that the former's younger son Henry should marry King Henry's sister Isabella. They married c. 1233, and had two children, Hugh and Margaret. Henry received substantial lands on Cyprus from his brother-in-law the king. 
Henry's father, Bohemond IV, died in 1233. Shortly after Henry was sent by his brother Bohemond V to assist the Hospitallers and the Templars in attacking Barin. The campaign ended when the defenders promised to pay a tribute to the Hospital.


== Lieutenancy ==
King Henry died in 1253. His son, King Hugh II of Cyprus, was regarded as the heir presumptive of the absent King Conrad III of Jerusalem and was thus recognized as regent by the High Court of Jerusalem. But King Hugh was a minor, and so the regency was exercised on his behalf by his mother, Queen Plaisance. Plaisance died in 1261. Henry's wife Isabella, aunt and closest relative of King Hugh, waived her right to Cypriot regency in favour of their son, Hugh. But in 1263, Isabella claimed the right to exercise regency in the Kingdom of Jerusalem on Hugh's behalf. She and Henry arrived in Acre, the capital of what had remained of the mainland kingdom, to assume the reins of government shortly after Baibars attacked.
Isabella deputised Henry to act as her bailli. This appointment was resented, possibly because coming from the ruling family of Antioch made Henry appear as an outsider. The High Court refused them fealty and homage, claiming that they should have brought King Hugh with them. The following year, Pope Urban IV implored Henry, John II of Beirut, Geoffrey of Sergines, and John of Jaffa to settle their differences for the sake of the kingdom. Little is known about Henry's government. It was cut short by Isabella's death in 1264, as his lieutenancy then lapsed.


== Aftermath ==
Henry and Isabella's son, Hugh, was selected to exercise regency in Jerusalem after Isabella's death. When the young kings of Cyprus and Jerusalem died in 1267 and 1268, respectively, Henry's son ascended both thrones. Henry died in a shipwreck on 27 June 1276 when the taride carrying him from Acre to Cyprus hit a rock. He was buried in the church of the Knights Hospitaller in Nicosia, Cyprus.


== References ==


=== Sources ===
Baldwin, Philip Bruce (2014). Pope Gregory X and the Crusades. Boydell & Brewer Ltd. ISBN 978-1843839163.
Edbury, Peter W. (1994). The Kingdom of Cyprus and the Crusades. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-45837-5.
Lock, Peter, ed. (2016). Marino Sanudo Torsello, The Book of the Secrets of the Faithful of the Cross: Liber Secretorum Fidelium Crucis. Routledge. ISBN 978-1317100607.
Runciman, Steven (1989). A History of the Crusades, Volume III: The Kingdom of Acre and the Later Crusades. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-06163-6.
Burgtorf, Jochen (2008). The Central Convent of Hospitallers and Templars: History, Organization, and Personnel (1099/1120-1310). Brill. ISBN 978-9004166608.

Gas in scattering media absorption spectroscopy (GASMAS) is an optical technique for sensing and analysis of gas located within porous and highly scattering solids, e.g. powders, ceramics, wood, fruit, translucent packages, pharmaceutical tablets, foams, human paranasal sinuses etc. It was introduced in 2001 by Prof. Sune Svanberg and co-workers at Lund University (Sweden). The technique is related to conventional high-resolution laser spectroscopy for sensing and spectroscopy of gas (e.g. tunable diode laser absorption spectroscopy, TDLAS), but the fact that the gas here is "hidden" inside solid materials give rise to important differences.


== Basic Principles ==
Free gases exhibit very sharp spectral features, and different gas species have their own unique spectral fingerprints. At atmospheric pressure, absorption linewidths are typically on the order of 0.1 cm−1 (i.e. ~3 GHz in optical frequency or 0.006 nm in wavelength), while solid media have dull spectral behavior with absorption features thousand times wider. By looking for the sharp absorption imprints in light emerging from porous samples, it is thus possible to detect gases confined in solids – even though the solid often attenuates light much stronger than the gas itself.
The basic principle of GASMAS is shown in figure 1. Laser light is sent into a sample with gas cavities, which could either be small pores (left) or larger gas-filled chambers. The heterogeneous nature of the porous material often give rise to strong light scattering, and pathlengths are often surprisingly long (10 or 100 times the sample dimension are not uncommon). In addition, light will experience absorption related to the solid material. When travelling through the material, light will travel partly through the pores, and will thus experience the spectrally sharp gas absorption. Light leaving the material will carry this information, and can be collected by a detector either in a transmission mode (left) or in a reflection mode (right).
In order to detect the spectrally sharp fingerprints related to the gas, GASMAS has so far relied on high-resolution tunable diode laser absorption spectroscopy (TDLAS). In principle, this means that a nearly monochromatic (narrow-bandwidth) laser is scanned across an absorption line of the gas, and a detector records the transmission profile. In order to increase sensitivity, modulation techniques are often employed.
The strength of the gas absorption will depend, as given by the Beer-Lambert law, both on the gas concentration and the path-length that the light has travelled through the gas. In conventional TDLAS, the path-length is known and the concentration is readily calculated from the transmittance. In GASMAS, extensive scattering renders the pathlength unknown and the determination of gas concentration is aggravated. In many applications, however, the gas concentration is known and other parameters are in focus. Furthermore, as discussed in 2.2, there are complementing techniques that can provide information on the optical pathlength, thus allowing evaluation also of gas concentrations.


== Challenges ==


=== Diffuse light ===


=== Unknown interaction pathlength ===


=== Optical interference noise ===
It is well known that optical interference often is a major problem in laser-based gas spectroscopy. In conventional laser-based gas spectrometers, the optical interference originates from e.g. etalon-type interference effects in (or between) optical components and multi-pass gas cells. Throughout the years, great efforts have been devoted to handle this problem. Proper optical design is important to minimize interference from the beginning (e.g. by tilting optical components, avoiding transmissive optics and using anti-reflection coating), but interference patterns can not be completely avoided and are often difficult to separate from gas absorption. Since gas spectroscopy often involves measurement of small absorption fractions (down to 10−7), appropriate handling of interference is crucial. Utilised countermeasures include customized optical design, tailored laser modulation, mechanical dithering, signal post-processing, sample modulation, and baseline recording and interference subtraction.
In the case of GASMAS, optical interference is particularly cumbersome. This is related to the severe speckle-type interference that originates from the interaction between laser light and highly scattering solid materials. Since this highly non-uniform interference is generated in same place as the utility signal, it cannot be removed by design. The optical properties of the porous material under study determines the interference pattern, and the level of interference is not seldom much stronger than actual gas absorption signals. Random mechanical dithering (e.g. laser beam dithering and/or sample rotation ) has been found effective in GASMAS. However, this approach converts stable interference into a random noise that must be averaged away, thus requiring longer acquisition times. Baseline recording and interference subtraction may be applicable in some GASMAS applications, as may other of the methods described above.


== Applications ==


=== Medical diagnostics ===
See  


=== Optical porosimetry ===
See 


=== Monitoring of drying processes ===
See  


=== Pharmaceutical applications ===
See 


=== Monitoring of food and food packaging ===
Much of the food that we consume today is put in a wide variety of packages to ensure food quality and provide a possibility for transportation and distribution. Many of these packages are air or gas tight, making it difficult to study the gas composition without perforation. In many cases it is of great value to study the composition of gases without destroying the package.
The perhaps best example is studies of the amount of oxygen in food packages. Oxygen is naturally present in most food and food packages as it is a major component in air. However, oxygen is also one of the great causes or needs for aging of biological substances, due to its source for increase of chemical and microbiological activity. Today, methods like [Modified atmosphere] (MAP) and [Controlled atmosphere] packaging (CAP) are implemented to reduce and control the oxygen content in food packages to prolong [shelf life] and ensure safe food. To assure the effectiveness of these methods it is important to regularly measure the concentration of oxygen (and other gases) inside these packages. GASMAS provides the possibility of doing this non-intrusively, without destroying any food or packages. The two main advantages of measuring the gas-composition in packages without perforation is that no food is wasted in the controlling process and that the same package can be controlled repeatedly during an extended time period to monitor any time-dependence of the gas composition. The studies can be used to guarantee the tightness of packages but also to study food deterioration processes.
Much food itself contains free gas distributed in pores within. Examples are fruit, bread, flour, beans, cheese, etc. Also this gas can be of great value to study to monitor quality and maturity level (see e.g. and ).


=== Spectroscopy of gas confined in nanoporous materials ===
See 


== References ==


== External links ==
GASMAS technology for packaging, food, and medical applications Archived 2013-09-21 at the Wayback Machine.

Helen Olheim (1904 – June 26, 1992) was an American mezzo-soprano opera singer. She was born in Buffalo, New York, in 1904 as Helen Oelheim. She graduated from the Eastman School of Music where Adelin Fermin was her teacher. She sang with the American Opera Company where she met her future husband, Frederick Michel, whom she married in September 1927. Olheim was a guest on many radio programs including The Cathedral Hour on WABC (now WHSQ), and was a member of the Metropolitan Opera from 1935 until 1944 where she appeared in 360 performances. Among the roles she played at the Met were Mercédès from Bizet's Carmen, Siebel from Gounod's Faust. (her debut role at the Met), Maddalena from Verdi's Rigoletto, and Suzuki from Puccini's Madama Butterfly.
Olheim was a Member Laureate of the fraternity for music professionals Sigma Alpha Iota.
After Olheim (which was her stage name) left the Metropolitan Opera, she taught at Mount Holyoke College from 1954 until 1966, and then she moved to Sarasota, Florida. Olheim died June 26, 1992, from natural causes at the Beneva Nursing Pavilion in Sarasota at the age of 87.


== References ==

The 19th Annual 24 Hour Pepsi Challenge Daytona was a 24-hour sports car and GT race held on January 31 – February 1, 1981 at the Daytona International Speedway road course. The race served as the opening round of the 1981 World Sportscar Championship and the 1981 IMSA GTX, GTO and GTU Championships. It was the last 24 Hours of Daytona to be part of the World Sportscar Championship. When the World Endurance Championship started in 2012 it would race in the United States at Sebring International Raceway and the Circuit of the Americas.
Victory overall and in the GTX class went to the No. 9 Garretson Racing Porsche 935 K3 driven by Bob Garretson, Bobby Rahal, and Brian Redman by the large margin of 13 laps over the similar No. 5 Porsche 935 K3 of the Bob Akin Motor Racing team driven by Bob Akin, Craig Siebert and Derek Bell Victory in the GTU Class and third outright was the No. 62 Kegel Enterprises Porsche 911 SC driven by Bill Koll, Jeff Kline and Rob McFarlin by 18 laps over the No. 23 Datsun 280ZX of Dick Davenport, Frank Carney and Rameau Johnson. Victory in the GTO class and sixth outright went to the No. 14 Bavarian Motors International BMW M1 driven by Walter Brun, Hans-Joachim Stuck and Alf Gebhardt by 23 laps over the No. 58 Porsche 911 Carrera RSR driven by Pete Smith, Chuck Kendall and Steven Earle.


== Race results ==
Class winners denoted in bold and with ‡.


== References ==

The List of towns in Farther Pomerania includes towns that lost their town status over time as well as towns which lie west of the Oder river, but east of the Oder–Neisse line, and thus historically are associated rather with Hither Pomerania (Western Pomerania). The list also includes towns merged into the Province of Pomerania as late as 1938 and thus might not be regarded historically belonging to Farther Pomerania either.


== See also ==
List of towns in Vorpommern


== Literature ==
Fritz R. Barran: Städte-Atlas Pommern. 2. Auflage. Rautenberg, Würzburg 2005, ISBN 3-8003-3097-0.
Peter Johanek, Franz-Joseph Post (Hrsg.): Städtebuch Hinterpommern. Verlag Kohlhammer, Stuttgart 2003.

Steve Buscemi is an American actor known for his performances in film, and television. He has received two Emmy Awards, a Golden Globe Award, two Independent Spirit Awards, and four Screen Actors Guild Awards.  
Buscemi is known for his collaborations with the Coen Brothers acting in five of their films starting with Miller's Crossing (1990), followed by Barton Fink (1991), The Hudsucker Proxy (1994), Fargo (1996), and The Big Lebowski (1998). Buscemi is also known for his role as Mr. Pink in Quentin Tarantino's Reservoir Dogs (1992) a role for which he won the Independent Spirit Award for Best Supporting Male. He played a lonely middle-aged man in the black comedy Ghost World (2001) for which he earned the Independent Spirit Award for Best Supporting Male and a nomination for the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor – Motion Picture. He also acted in the Michael Bay films Con Air (1997) and Armageddon (1998), Tim Burton's fantasy drama Big Fish (2003), and Armando Iannucci's political black comedy The Death of Stalin (2017). 
On television, he played Tony Blundetto in the HBO crime drama series The Sopranos for which he was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series. As a director, he was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing for a Drama Series for the acclaimed episode "Pine Barrens". He took a comedic recurring guest role as private investigator Lenny Wosniak in the NBC sitcom 30 Rock (2007–2013) for which he was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series. He was nominated in the same category for his role as a landlord in the IFC comedy series Portlandia (2014–2017). Buscemi won won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Short Form Variety Series for the comedic web series Park Bench with Steve Buscemi (2016).
Buscemi has received numerous awards and nominations for his role as Enoch 'Nucky' Thompson in the critically acclaimed HBO drama series Boardwalk Empire, created by Martin Scorsese. He won the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Television Series Drama as well as four Screen Actors Guild Awards for two consecutive Outstanding Actor in a Drama Series and two consecutive Outstanding Ensemble in a Comedy Series (2011, 2012). He was also nominated for two Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series.


== Major associations ==


=== Cannes Film Festival ===


=== Emmy Awards ===


=== Golden Globe Awards ===


=== Independent Spirit Award ===


=== Screen Actors Guild Awards ===


== Miscellaneous awards ==


== References ==

Anna Wolff-Powęska (born 1941) is a Polish historian and political scientist specialising in Polish-German relations. She was the director of the Western Institute in Poznań from 1990 to 2004. She is one of the foremost authorities on Germany in Poland. 


== Career ==
In 1964, she graduated in history from the Philosophical-Historical Department of Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznań. For a few years, she taught history in primary schools, until she was employed by the Western Institute in 1969. In 1970, she obtained a Ph.D., and in 1980 she completed her habilitation with a thesis on political and law doctrines at the same university. She became full professor in 1986 and was made director of the Western Institute in 1990. She left this post in 2004, but continues to work at the institute.


=== Areas of activity ===
Wolff-Powęska's main areas of interest are the history of German political thought and the political culture of Central-Eastern Europe.


=== Awards ===
In 2005, Wolff-Powęska received the Polish-German Award for special contribution to Polish-German relations.


== Publications ==
Doktryna geopolityki w Niemczech (1979)
Polityczne i filozoficzne nurty konserwatyzmu w Republice Federalnej Niemiec (1984)
Niemiecka myśl polityczna wieku oświecenia (1988)
Wspólna Europa. Mit czy rzeczywistość (1990)
Polacy wobec Niemców. Z dziejów kultury politycznej Polskiej Rzeczypospolitej Ludowej 1945-1989 (1993)
Oswojona Rewolucja. Europa Środkowo-Wschodnia w procesie demokratyzacji (1998)
Polen in Deutschland, Integration oder Separation? (2000)
Przestrzeń i polityka. Z dziejów niemieckiej myśli politycznej (2000)
A bliźniego swego... Kościoły w Niemczech wobec „problemu żydowskiego” (2003)


== References ==

Abell 2667 is a galaxy cluster. It is one of the most luminous galaxy clusters in the X-ray waveband known at a redshift about 0.2 and is a well-known gravitational lens.
On 2 March 2007, a team of astronomers reported the detection of the Comet Galaxy in this cluster. 
 This galaxy is being ripped apart by the cluster's gravitational field and harsh environment. The finding sheds light on the mysterious process by which gas-rich spiral-shaped galaxies might evolve into gas-poor irregular or elliptical-shaped galaxies over billions of years.
Abell 2667 is similar to many other low-redshift and cool-core galaxy clusters in terms of the cooling processes that happen at its center, which consists of a brightest cluster galaxy (BCG) and a supermassive black hole (SMBH).
Abell 2667 acts as an intense gravitational telescope, lensing red-shifted galaxies behind it. Although the warped galaxies may appear to be part of this galaxy cluster, they are in fact significantly more distant. 


== See also ==
Abell catalogue
List of Abell clusters
X-ray astronomy


== References ==


== External links ==
Hubble Space Telescope
Spitzer Space Telescope
NASA Astronomy Picture of the Day: Illusion and Evolution in Galaxy Cluster Abell 2667 (5 March 2007)
ESA news

This is a list of Indonesian dances.


== B ==

Bajidor Kahot dance (West Java), a Sundanese dance which combines the dance movements of Ketuk Tilu and Jaipongan as the basic of its motions.
Bambangan Cakil dance (Central Java), a classical dance-drama of Javanese people which demonstrates wayang kulit performance.
Baris dance (Bali), a Balinese war dance accompanied by gamelan. Performed by one dancers or in a group.
Barong dance (East Java and Bali), a type of Balinese and Javanese dance. The costume has panther-like shape. Popular in Java and Bali.
Barongsai dance (nationwide), a Chinese folk dance with costume has lion-like shape, often performed by Chinese Indonesian during Chinese New Year.
Bedhaya dance (Central Java and Yogyakarta), a Javanese sacred ritualized dance associated with the royal palaces of Yogyakarta and Surakarta, along with Srimpi.


== C ==
Cakalele dance (Maluku), a war dance of Moluccan and aboriginal people of Sulawesi, performed by men, two of whom represent opposing captains or leaders while the others are the warriors supporting them.
Cendrawasih dance (Bali), a Balinese dance which is performed by two female dancers, illustrates the mating rituals of the burung cendrawasih (bird of paradise)
Condong dance (Bali), a Balinese dance which is often performed as a preface to Legong and accompanied by the gamelan semar pegulingan.


== G ==

Gambuh dance (Bali), a Balinese dance-drama based to narrative material of the Malat, a series of poems about the folkloric Javanese prince, Raden Panji, an incarnation of Vishnu.
Gandrung dance (East Java, Bali and West Nusa Tenggara), a ritual dance dedicated to the goddess of rice and fertility, Dewi Sri. The dance native to Javanese, Balinese and Sasak people.
Gendang Beleq dance (West Nusa Tenggara), a sacred dance of Sasak people used big drum as main instrument known as gendang beleq.
Gending Sriwijaya dance (South Sumatra), a Palembangese traditional dance based on the simpler Tanggai dance and believed as the reenactment and recreation of the original welcoming ceremony commonly found in traditional Malay courts in the region, which demonstrate the Sekapur Sirih.
Golek Ayun-Ayun dance (Yogyakarta), a dance depicts a teenage girl who is growing up and likes to make up herself. This dance is very often performed to welcome guests of honor and is usually danced by two dancers, but it can also be up to six to eight dancers.


== H ==
Hudoq dance (East Kalimantan), a masked dance performed during Erau harvest thanksgiving festival of many of sub-groups of the Dayak ethnic group.


== I ==

Indang dance (West Sumatra), a traditional Islamic dance of Minangkabau people, develop in the usual surau that are played after the Quran recitation.


== J ==

Ja'i, dance used in Sa'o Ngaza rites
Jaipongan dance (West Java), a popular traditional dance of Sundanese people based on traditional Ketuk Tilu music and pencak silat movements.
Janger dance (Bali), a flirtatious youth theatrical dance of Balinese people.
Joged dance (Bali), a non-religious Balinese dance accompanied by the gamelan joged bumbung.
Joget dance (North Sumatra, Riau and Riau Islands), a Malay traditional dance influenced by Portuguese culture with a rancak (dynamic) rhythm, accompanied by violin, gong, rebana and kendang.


== K ==

Kabasaran dance (North Sulawesi), a traditional war dance of Minahasan people, performed by several men clad in red costumes, wielding a sword or spear with a shield.
Kancet Papatai dance (East Kalimantan), a Dayak war dance tradition based on Dayak Kenyah story.
Kebyar Duduk dance (Bali), a Balinese dance inspired by the development of the quick-paced gamelan gong kebyar.
Kecak dance (Bali), a form of Balinese Hindu dance-drama that performed by a circle of as many as 150 performers wearing checked cloths around their waists, percussively chanting "chak" and moving their hands and arms.
Kuda Lumping dance (East Java), a Javanese folk dance depicting a group of horsemen. Generally, the dance portrays troops riding horses, but another type of Kuda Lumping performance also incorporates trances and magic tricks.


== L ==

Legong dance (Bali), a Balinese dance form characterized by intricate finger movements, complicated footwork, and expressive gestures and facial expressions.
Liang-liong dance (nationwide), a form of traditional Chinese dance figured of a dragon using poles positioned at regular intervals along the length of the dragon.
Likok Pulo dance (Aceh), a traditional dance of Acehnese people which held after planting rice or after harvesting rice, usually the show is held at night even if the dance is contested can run all night until morning.
Lilin dance (West Sumatra), a Minangkabau candle dance performance, the dancers carry lit candles on plates held on the palm of each hand.


== M ==
Makyong dance (North Sumatra, Riau, Riau Islands and West Kalimantan), a traditional form of Malay dance-drama in which a form of folk theatre involving rituals connected with propitiation as well as healing
Merak dance (West Java), a classical Sundanese dance inspired by the movements of a peacock and its feathers.


== O ==

Oleg dance (Bali), a Balinese dance intended to be evocative of a garden, in which bees are buzzing about, collecting nectar from the waiting flow.
Ondel-ondel dance (Jakarta), a folk dance performance of Betawi people using a large puppet figure known as ondel-ondel.


== P ==

Panyembrama dance (Bali), a secular Balinese dance, usually performed first, particularly before a secularised Legong performance.
Pasambahan dance (West Sumatra), a ceremonial welcoming dance to honor the guests and elders to a traditional ceremony. This dance develop by Minangkabau people in the province.
Payung dance (West Sumatra), a folk dance-drama tradition of Minangkabau-Malay ethnic group, using payung (umbrella) as main instrument of this dance.
Pendet dance (Bali), a traditional dance of Balinese people in which floral offerings are made to purify the temple or theater as a prelude to ceremonies or other dances.
Piring dance (West Sumatra), a traditional Minangkabau plate dance, demonstrates the skill of the dancers that manage balance and to move the ceramics plate swiftly without dropping or breaking the plates. Sometimes candles are lit on the plate.
Poco-poco dance (Maluku), a popular line dance of Moluccan people of Maluku.


== R ==

Reog dance (East Java), a traditional Javanese dance, performed in an open arena that serves as folk entertainment, contains magical elements, the main dancer is a lion-headed person with a peacock feather decoration, plus several masked dancers and Kuda Lumping.
Ronggeng dance (Jakarta, Central Java and East Java), a type of Javanese dance in which couples exchange poetic verses as they dance to the music of a rebab, violin and gong.
Rokatenda dance (East Nusa Tenggara), a traditional Palue dance, its name is taken from Mount Rokatenda in Palue Island, the dancers wear white clothes with woven sarongs and red scarves.
Rudat dance (West Nusa Tenggara), a traditional dance of Sasak people, demonstrates pancak silat martial art movements.


== S ==

Saman dance (Aceh), a popular dance of Gayo people, characterized by its fast-paced rhythm and common harmony between dancers.
Sanghyang dance (Bali), a sacred Balinese dance based on the premise that an unseen force enters the body of an entranced performer. The force, identified as Hyang.
Sigale Gale dance (North Sumatra), a Batak dance performance along with Sigale Gale wooden puppet.
Singo Ulung dance (East Java), a traditional Javanese dance played by two people in a lion-like costume and accompanied by music.
Serimpi dance (Central Java and Yogyakarta), a classical Javanese ritualized dance with slowly movement accompanied with serene gamelan.


== T ==

Tanggai dance (South Sumatra), a traditional welcoming dance of Palembangese people.
Topeng dance (Banten, Jakarta, West Java, Central Java, Yogyakarta, East Java, East Kalimantan, South Kalimantan and Bali), a type of dramatic form of dance in which one or more mask-wearing, ornately costumed performers interpret traditional narratives concerning fabled kings, heroes and myths, accompanied by gamelan music. This dance practised by Balinese, Betawi and Javanese people.
Topeng Banjar dance (South Kalimantan), a Banjarese mask dance
Topeng Betawi dance (Jakarta), a Betawi theatrical form of dance-drama encompasses dance, music, bebodoran (comedy) and lakon (drama).
Topeng Cirebon dance (West Java and Central Java), a Cirebonese mask dance, might depict the story of Raden Panji or another Majapahit story.
Topeng Ireng dance (Central Java), a Javanese mask dance originating from Magelang


== U ==
Ulek Mayang dance (Riau Islands), a classical Malay dance to appease or invoke the spirits of the sea and is always accompanied by a unique song also called Ulek Mayang. An orchestra comprising drums, gong, violin and accordion accompanies the dance.


== W ==

Wayang wong dance (Central Java, Yogyakarta, East Java and Bali), a type of classical Javanese dance theatrical performance with themes taken from episodes of the Ramayana or Mahabharata. Performances are stylised, reflecting Javanese court culture.


== Z ==
Zapin dance (North Sumatra, Riau, Riau Islands, Jambi, Bangka Belitung Islands and West Kalimantan), a classical Malay dance of Sumatra and Kalimantan. The dancers usually perform in pairs and are accompanied by musicians playing the accordion, violin, gambus, marawis and occasionally using kompang.
Zapin Api dance (Riau), a type of Zapin dance in which fire dance technique.


== Other ==


== See also ==

Dance in Indonesia
List of ethnic, regional, and folk dances by origin

This is a list of films encoded in the SDDS sound format with eight channels of sound, rather than the usual six.
The first film to use this format was Last Action Hero (1993), and the final film was Surf's Up (2007).


== 1993 ==
Geronimo: An American Legend
In the Line of Fire
Last Action Hero
Rudy


== 1994 ==
True Lies
Forrest Gump
Immortal Beloved
Little Big League
Mary Shelley's Frankenstein
The Next Karate Kid


== 1995 ==
Bad Boys
Desperado
Devil in a Blue Dress
Dracula: Dead and Loving It
First Knight
Hideaway
Johnny Mnemonic
Judge Dredd
Legends of the Fall
Mortal Kombat
Toy Story
Never Talk to Strangers
Sense and Sensibility
Batman Forever


== 1996 ==
Alaska
The English Patient
The Fan
Fly Away Home
From Dusk till Dawn
Heavy Metal (re-release 8-channel remix)
Mary Reilly
Matilda
Multiplicity
Mrs. Winterbourne
Race the Sun
Screamers
Twister
Space Jam
The Cable Guy


== 1997 ==
Addicted to Love
Air Force One
Anaconda
Con Air
Das Boot: The Director's Cut
Contact
The Fifth Element
Gattaca
Ghosts of Mississippi
Masterminds
Men In Black
My Best Friend's Wedding
The Second Jungle Book: Mowgli & Baloo
Titanic


== 1998 ==
Apt Pupil
The Avengers
Godzilla
Les Misérables
Out of Sight
The Rugrats Movie
The Replacement Killers
The Negotiator
Armageddon
Small Soldiers
Lethal Weapon 4
Paulie
A Bug's Life
Bride of Chucky
Dennis the Menace Strikes Again
Babe: Pig in the City
The Prince of Egypt
Saving Private Ryan


== 1999 ==
Blue Streak
Crazy in Alabama
Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace
Tarzan
American Beauty
The Haunting
Stuart Little
Baby Geniuses
Toy Story 2
The End of the Affair
The Adventures of Elmo in Grouchland
Deep Blue Sea
The Matrix
Three Kings
The Insider
Austin Powers: The Spy Who Shagged Me


== 2000 ==
All the Pretty Horses
Charlie's Angels
Erin Brockovich
Finding Forrester
Girl, Interrupted
X-Men
High Fidelity
Hollow Man
The Perfect Storm
The 6th Day
U-571
Vertical Limit
Fantasia 2000
What Lies Beneath
Gladiator
Meet the Parents
Mission: Impossible 2
Gun Shy
Mission to Mars
The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas
The Contender
The Legend of Bagger Vance
The Cell
Cast Away
Unbreakable
Rugrats in Paris: The Movie
Dr. Seuss' How the Grinch Stole Christmas


== 2001 ==
Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within
Glitter
Windtalkers
Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone
A Knight's Tale
A.I. Artificial Intelligence
Ocean's Eleven
Pearl Harbor
Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius
Monsters, Inc.
Shrek
Osmosis Jones
Cats & Dogs


== 2002 ==
Black Hawk Down
Ice Age
Scooby-Doo
Minority Report
Spider-Man
Stuart Little 2
Men in Black II
The Time Machine


== 2003 ==
Bad Boys II
Big Fish
Charlie's Angels: Full Throttle
Intolerable Cruelty
Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines
Underworld
Rugrats Go Wild
Anger Management
The Jungle Book 2
Bruce Almighty
Finding Nemo


== 2004 ==
Anacondas: The Hunt for the Blood Orchid
Criminal
Ocean's Twelve
Spider-Man 2
Garfield: The Movie
The Polar Express
The Incredibles


== 2005 ==
Fun with Dick and Jane
The Legend of Zorro
Robots
Stealth
Zathura: A Space Adventure
Hitch
Pooh's Heffalump Movie
Bewitched
Chicken Little
Yours, Mine & Ours
The Pacifier
Wallace & Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory
Madagascar
Valiant


== 2006 ==
The Da Vinci Code
Ice Age: The Meltdown
Open Season
Cars
Garfield: A Tail of Two Kitties
Night at the Museum
Charlotte's Web
Eragon
RV
Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby


== 2007 ==
Ghost Rider
Spider-Man 3
Surf's Up


== References ==


== External links ==
Official SDDS list from wayback machine archive

The First Congregational Methodist Church (often abbreviated as FCMC or FCM Church) is a Methodist Christian denomination in the Southern United States. It has its theological roots in the teachings of John Wesley and adheres to the Methodist Articles of Religion. As of 2021 it reported 12 local congregations.
The FCM was founded on 8 May 1852 when several churches split from the Congregational Methodist Church which had itself split three years earlier from the Methodist Episcopal Church, South. The connexion's first hierarch was Rev. William Fambough. Its first Book of Discipline was published under the leadership of Rev. Hiram Phinazee.
The First Congregational Methodist Church is Evangelical in ministry, Low Church in liturgy and takes a conservative stance on social issues. The FCM Church maintains headquarters in Boaz, Alabama where its camp meeting is held. Its periodical is called The Watchman.


== References ==


== External links ==
The First Congregational Methodist Church of the U.S.A
Official First Congregational Methodist Website

Ricky Andrew (born 2 December 1989) is a rugby union coach and former player. He played professionally at wing and Fullback for Ulster and Nottingham, was player/head coach for Spanish side CAU Rugby Valencia, and is currently a pathway coach with the Ulster academy.
A graduate of the Hughes Insurance Ulster Academy, he made his debut for Ulster in the 2011/12 season. Over the next three seasons he appeared in the Pro12 and Heineken Cup, before moving to Nottingham in the English Championship for the 2015-16 season. After that he spent some time playing and coaching for Rainey Old Boys in the All-Ireland League, before being appointed head coach at CAU Rugby Valencia in 2017. As of 2022 he is a pathway coach with the Ulster Rugby academy.


== References ==

Los Temerarios were a Mexican grupera band formed in Fresnillo, Zacatecas in 1977 by brothers Adolfo Ángel and Gustavo Ángel and their cousin Fernando Ángel. During their early years, they were known as Conjunto La Brisa. Los Temerarios have recorded more than 20 studio albums and been honored with multiple music awards and nominations, including two Grammy nominations, one Latin Grammy Award, one Excellence Award from Premio Lo Nuestro and another Lifetime Achievement Award from the Latin Billboard Music Awards. In 2016, they were inducted into the Latin Songwriters Hall of Fame.
At the inaugural Latin Grammy Awards of 2000, they received the award for best Mexican-American album. In 2005, they received the Lifetime Achievement Award at the Premio Lo Nuestro 2005 Awards show.  The aforementioned award has been given to only the maximum exponents in Latin music history.  Similarly, in 2010, Los Temerarios received the Lifetime Achievement Award from 2010 Latin Billboard Music Awards held in Puerto Rico for their successful 30-year music career.   In 2012, Los Temerarios received their star on the Las Vegas Walk of Fame.
On August 28, 2023, Los Temerarios announced their separation. Their farewell tour lasted through 2024, ending on December 21 at Estadio GNP Seguros (formally Foro Sol) in Mexico City.


== Discography ==


=== Albums ===


== See also ==
List of best-selling Latin music artists


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

A mansion is a large dwelling house. The word itself derives through Old French from the Latin word mansio "dwelling", an abstract noun derived from the verb manere "to dwell". The English word manse originally defined a property large enough for the parish priest to maintain himself, but a mansion is usually no longer self-sustaining in this way (compare a Roman or medieval villa). Manor comes from the same root—territorial holdings granted to a lord who would "remain" there.
Following the fall of Rome, the practice of building unfortified villas ceased. Today, the oldest inhabited mansions around the world usually began their existence as fortified houses in the Middle Ages. As social conditions slowly changed and stabilized fortifications were able to be reduced, and over the centuries gave way to comfort. It became fashionable and possible for homes to be beautiful rather than grim and forbidding allowing for the development of the modern mansion.
In British English, a mansion block refers to a block of flats or apartments designed for the appearance of grandeur. In many parts of Asia, including Hong Kong and Japan, the word mansion also refers to a block of apartments. In modern Japan, a "manshon" (Japanese: マンション), stemming from the English word "mansion", is used to refer to a multi-unit apartment complex or condominium.


== History ==


=== 15th to 18th-century development ===

In Europe, from the 15th century onwards, a combination of politics and advances in weaponry negated the need for the aristocracy to live in fortified castles. As a result, many were transformed into mansions without defences or demolished and rebuilt in a more modern, undefended style. Due to intermarriage and primogeniture inheritance amongst the aristocracy, it became common for one noble to often own several country houses. These would be visited rotationally throughout the year as their owner pursued the social and sporting circuit from country home to country home. 
Many owners of a country house would also own a town mansion in their country's capital city. These town mansions were referred to as 'houses' in London, 'hôtels particuliers' in Paris, and 'palaces' in most European cities elsewhere. It might be noted that sometimes the house of a clergyman was called a "mansion house" (e.g., by the Revd. James Blair, Commissary in Virginia for the Bishop of London, 1689–1745, a term related to the word "manse" commonly used in the Church of Scotland and in Non-Conformist churches. H.G. Herklots, The Church of England and the American Episcopal Church).

As the 16th century progressed and the Renaissance style slowly spread across Europe, the last vestiges of castle architecture and life changed; the central points of these great houses became redundant as owners wished to live separately from their servants, and no longer ate with them in a Great hall. All evidence and odours of cooking and staff were banished from the principal parts of the house into distant wings, while the owners began to live in airy rooms, above the ground floor, with privacy from their servants, who were now confined, unless required, to their specifically delegated areas—often the ground and uppermost attic floors. This was a period of great social change, as the educated prided themselves on enlightenment.
The uses of these edifices paralleled that of the Roman villas. It was vital for powerful people and families to keep in social contact with each other as they were the primary moulders of society. The rounds of visits and entertainments were an essential part of the societal process, as described in the novels of Jane Austen. State business was often discussed and determined in informal settings. Times of revolution reversed this value. During July/August 1789, a significant number of French country mansions (chateaux) were destroyed by the rural population as part of the Great Fear—a symbolic rejection of the feudal rights and restraints in effect under the Ancien Régime.
Until World War I it was not unusual for a moderately sized mansion in England such as Cliveden to have an indoor staff of 20 and an outside staff of the same size, and in ducal mansions such as Chatsworth House the numbers could be far higher. In the great houses of Italy, the number of retainers was often even greater than in England; whole families plus extended relations would often inhabit warrens of rooms in basements and attics. Most European mansions were also the hub of vast estates.


=== 19th-century development ===

The 19th century saw the continuation of the building of mansions in the United States and Europe. These mansions were often smaller than those built by the old European aristocracy. The new builders of mansions at the time explored new styles other than the Gothic tastes in architecture which were used often. They experimented with 19th-century versions of older Renaissance and Tudoresque styles; The Breakers in Rhode Island is an example of American Renaissance revivalism.
During the 19th century, along with other streets in major cities, Fifth Avenue in New York City had many mansions. Many of these were designed by the leading architects of the day, often in European Gothic Revival style, and were built by families who were making their fortunes. However, nearly all of these have now been demolished. Whitemarsh Hall, a countryside estate in the U.S. was demolished in 1980, along with its extensive gardens, to make way for suburban developments. In Paris, London or Rome, many large mansions and palazzi built or remodeled during the era still survive.
Grand Federal style mansions designed by Samuel McIntire inhabit an area that, in 2012, is the largest collection of 17th- and 18th-century structures in the United States of America. This district in Salem, Massachusetts, is called the McIntire Historic District with the center being Chestnut Street. McIntire's training came from his father and from books. He and his brothers, Joseph and Angler, began their careers as housewrights and carpenters while in their teens but, early on, Samuel's work caught the eye of Salem's pre-eminent merchant, Elias Hasket Derby. Over the next quarter century, McIntire built or remodelled a number of homes for Derby and members of his extended family. McIntire also worked occasionally on Derby's vessels, and would fix a wagon or build a birdhouse if his patron desired. Hamilton Hall is a National Historic Landmark at 9 Chestnut Street in Salem, Massachusetts. Hamilton Hall was built in 1805 by Samuel McIntire and added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1970. "King" Derby's stamp of approval opened many other doors for McIntire, who went on to design and build mansions for John Gardner, Jerethmiel Peirce, Simon Forrester, and other wealthy Salem shipowners. He also built on Chestnut Street a function hall (named for Alexander Hamilton) and a church for the town's merchant class. McIntire also designed the former Salem Court House and Registry of Deeds.
After 1793, Samuel McIntire worked exclusively in the architectural style developed by Robert Adam in Great Britain and brought to America by the great Boston architect, Charles Bulfinch. The delicate Adam style, which emphasized decorative elements and ornamentation, was preferred for McIntire, who was efficient in design and proportions and had skill as a woodcarver. Swags, rosettes, garlands, and his signature sheaths of wheat were carved in wood surfaces in McIntire homes built between 1793 and his death in 1811.

In Europe, some 19th-century mansions were often built as replicas of older houses; the Château de Ferrières in France was inspired by Mentmore Towers, which in turn is a copy of Wollaton Hall. Other mansions were built in the new and innovative styles of the new era such as the arts and crafts style: The Breakers is a pastiche of an Italian Renaissance palazzo; Waddesdon Manor in Buckinghamshire is a mixture of various French châteaux. One of the most enduring and most frequently copied styles for a mansion is the Palladian – particularly so in the 18th century. However, the Gothic style was probably the most popular choice of design in the 19th century. The most bizarre example of this was probably Fonthill Abbey which actually set out to imitate the mansions which had truly evolved from medieval Gothic abbeys following the Dissolution of the Monasteries in the 16th century.
Mansions built during and after the 19th century were not supported by the large estates of their predecessors. These new mansions were often built as the week-end retreats of businessmen who commuted to their offices by the new railways, which enabled them to leave the city more easily.


=== 20th-century development ===


== Latin America ==

In Latin America, the grand rural estate, the Hacienda, Estancia, in Portuguese speaking Brazil Fazenda or Estância, with the mansion as its stately center, is a characteristic feature.
Mansions tended to follow European architectural styles. Whereas until the second half of the 19th century, Portugal and Spain as the colonial (or former colonial) powers were the eminent models for architecture and upper-class lifestyle, towards the end of the 19th century they were sometimes replaced by then more dominant powers like France or England.
In comparably developed, densely populated countries like Mexico, feudal estates and their mansions were as grand and stately as in the Mediterranean old world, whereas where estates were founded in the sparsely populated remote areas like the Pampa of Argentina or Uruguay, where iron pillars, doors, windows, and furniture had to be brought from Europe by ship and afterwards ox cart, buildings were smaller, but normally still aspiring to evoke a stately impression, often featuring, like their earlier Italian counterparts, a morador.
In Venezuela, the traditional Spanish mansions with a garden in the center of the property are usually referred as "Quinta".


== Size ==
Some realtors in the US term mansions as houses that have a minimum of 8,000-square-foot (740 m2) of floor space. Others say a viable minimum could instead be 5,000-square-foot (460 m2) of floor space, especially in a city environment.


== See also ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Historic Mansions and Estates in Latin America
Estonian Manors Portal the English version introduces 438 well-preserved historical manors (mansions, estates) in Estonia

Christopher Gray (22 May 1942 – 14 May 2009) was an activist in the Situationist International and follower of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh.
Christopher Nelson Gray was born on 22 May 1942 in London; he was raised by his grandmother in Crosby, Merseyside, and educated at Repton School.
Gray worked with Conrad Rooks on the film Chappaqua in the mid-sixties.
He died at the age of 67 at the London Hampstead Marie Curie Hospice (Eden Hall) on May 14th 2009.


== Radical politics ==
In the mid-sixties, Gray met Charles Radcliffe at an anarchist meeting in London. The pair bonded over a shared interest in radical groups including Black Mask, Solidarity (UK) and the Situationist International.  Gray then became a contributor to Radcliffe's magazine Heatwave.
In December 1966, Gray and Radcliffe became members of the short-lived English Section of the Situationist International, along with Donald Nicholson-Smith and T. J. Clark.
In 1967 Gray translated situationist Raoul Vaneigem's Banalités de Base (1962-63) which he published as the pamphlet The Totality for Kids.
Gray's expulsion from the Situationist International on the 21 December 1967 was announced in the 12th (and final) issue of the organisation's journal. The reasons cited were the English Section's refusal to disassociate themselves from Ben Morea and Black Mask. The expelled English situationists then formed London radical group King Mob with twin brothers David and Stuart Wise, who had recently arrived in London from Newcastle.
Gray continued to translate Situationist International texts, editing the first book length anthology of the group to appear in English - Leaving The Twentieth Century: The incomplete works of the Situationist International (Free Fall Publications, London 1974).


== Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh ==
According to Dick Pountain "By the late 1970s Gray was spending much time in India, as a trekking guide in the Himalayas and a not uncritical follower of Bhagwan Shree Rajneesh (known after 1989 as "Osho"). Under the pen-name "Sam", Chris published Life of Osho (1997)"


== The Acid Diaries ==
For three years Gray self-administered the psychedelic drug LSD, applying the theories of Stanislav Grof to analyse his own experiences. He also used the works of Aldous Huxley, Albert Hofmann and Gordon Wasson to develop an account of the possible value of LSD as a tool for transpersonal growth and spiritual development.


== Publications ==
Leaving The Twentieth Century: The incomplete works of the Situationist International (1974) Free Fall Publications, London. Republished by Rebel Press (London) 1998.
Life of Osho (1997) published under the pseudonym of "Sam" by Sannyas, London.
The Acid, published under the pseudonym of "Sam" by Vision Press (2009). Republished as Christopher Gray - The Acid Diaries: A Psychonaut's Guide to the History and Use of LSD (2010) London: Park Street Press.


== References ==

Big Hair Alaska is an American reality television special that aired on the TLC cable network, on September 20, 2011. The subject of the special was the Beehive Beauty Shop in Wasilla, Alaska.


== Episodes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Big Hair Alaska at IMDb

Tubod, officially the Municipality of Tubod  (Cebuano: Lungsod sa Tubod; Maranao: Inged a Tubod; Filipino: Bayan ng Tubod), is a municipality and capital of the province of Lanao del Norte, Philippines. According to the 2024 census, it has a population of 50,395 people.
Tubod is also where the Panguil Bay Bridge is situated. The 3.77 km (2.34 mi) bridge connects the municipality to Tangub City, Misamis Occidental.


== Etymology ==
Tubod derived its name from the spring located at Sitio Baybay in Barangay Poblacion. According to the old folks, even during the longest dry season, the spring will not drain. Tubod comes from the Cebuano language, meaning “the water source”. History pointed out that Christian immigrants from Luzon and Visayas settled in this part of the region.


== History ==
History pointed out that migrant from the Christian provinces in Visayas and Luzon settled in this part of the region. Latest survey shows that the Christian-Muslim in the municipality is about 97.3.
Republic Act No. 58 separated the Barrios of Tubod, Baroy, Lala, Daromawang, Bolod, Taguiquiron, Sagadan and Princesa from its mother municipality of Kolambugan to become a municipality "Tubod" effective October 17, 1946. On February 3, 1982, Parliamentary Bill No. 568 was enacted by the Batasang Pambansa in session assembled, transferring the site of Provincial Government of Lanao del Norte from Iligan City to Municipality of Tubod, making it the "Capital town" of the Lanao del Norte.
Rufo dela Cruz was sworn into office as the appointed Municipal Mayor on March 14, 1947. In the local election of 1947, Fausto Alvia as elected as Municipal Mayor.
On March 22, 1949, President Elpidio Quirino issued Executive Order No. 208, creating the municipality of Lala from the barrios of Rawaan, Gumagamut, Lala (poblacion), Simpak, Daromawang, Abagan, and Lanipao.
On June 10, 1949, the President Quirino issued Executive Order No. 222 creating the Municipality of Baroy whereby all the elected Municipal Officials except the councilor Arsenio A. Quibranza, opted to serve Baroy thus leading to the appointment of the Municipal Officials of Tubod with the Arsenio A. Quibranza as Municipal Mayor effective June 24, 1949.
In 1951 local elections the latter was elected as the Municipal Mayor and was re-elected twice during the 1955 and 1959 local elections, his term ended on March 8, 1962, when he was appointed by President Diosdado Macapagal as Vice Governor of Lanao del Norte. By the law of succession, the Vice Mayor Trifon A. Tabuco became the Municipal Mayor of Tubod and held the position until December 31, 1963. In the 1963 election,  Jesus Perez was elected Municipal Mayor and was re-elected also in the 1967 election whose term ended on December 31, 1971. In 1971 election, the Marcelino Pepito was elected Municipal Mayor whose term ended on January 31, 1979, when Romana dela Cruz Neri too her oath and assumed office as appointed Municipal Mayor. In 1980 election, the latter was elected as the Municipal Mayor whose term ended as an aftermath of the February 25, 1986, EDSA Revolution. The Municipal government of Tubod was governed since by OICs Panfilo dela Cruz, Rooseque B. Calacat and Panfilo Labunog, respectively, until January 31, 1988. In the February 2, 1988, election, the Romana dela Cruz Neri was elected again as the Municipal Mayor of Tubod. She held the same office until she was defeated by Constancio A. Pepito in 1992 synchronized national and local elections, who held the position for three consecutive terms. In 2001 elections,  Eduardo C. Mansueto was elected as Municipal Mayor and held the position for three consecutive terms. During the national and local election in 2010, the Nelieta Quibranza-Noval, who boarded the wagon of politics just like her father the late Arsenio A. Quibranza, was elected as Municipal Mayor and re-elected during the 2016 national and local election but she died on September 7, 2016.


== Geography ==
Tubod is located along the southeastern shores of Panguil Bay and is about 60 kilometres (37 mi) southwest of Iligan City, 10 kilometres (6.2 mi) south of Ozamiz City and about 2 kilometres (1.2 mi) west of Tangub City. The Panguil Bay Bridge links the municipality to the city of Tangub.
It is bounded by Panguil Bay and the municipality of Kolambugan on the north, Magsaysay on the northeast, Munai on the east, the municipalities of Salvador and Nunungan on the south, and the municipality of Baroy on the southwest. It has a regular terrain with low planes in the interior and undulating hills to rugged mountains along the northern portion, down to the southeastern portion of the municipality.
Tubod has 24 barangays and occupies a land area of 24,000 hectares (59,000 acres). Rainfall is present every month although it is outside the typhoon belt. It has an annual mean temperature of 26.6 °C (79.9 °F) and a mean monthly rainfall distribution of less than 74 millimetres (2.9 in). Of the total area of the municipality, 289.05 hectares are public land, including alienable, disposable, and forest land, 310 hectares rice land, 73.24 hectares as fishpond and swamp lands, and 117.44 hectares as residential land.


=== Barangays ===
Tubod is politically subdivided into 24 barangays. Each barangay consists of puroks  while some have sitios.


=== Climate ===


== Demographics ==


== Economy ==

Poverty incidence of Tubod

Source: Philippine Statistics Authority 


== Sports ==

Tubod is the site of the Mindanao Civic Center (MCC), which houses a 6,000-seater stadium, a 4,368 seater indoor arena, a swimming pool and other facilities.
Additionally, MCC is the site of several motocross events in the country, giving the distinction of Tubod and the entire province as the "Motocross Capital of the Philippines".


== Culture ==


=== Festival ===
Tubod is primarily an agricultural town. Of its land area of 24,000, 80.7% is dedicated to agricultural use with a large percentage planted with bananas. Therefore, the ups and downs of the economic situation of the people in the interior barangay is more or less dependent on the banana industry. Cognizant with the bright prospect of banana products playing a vital role of livelihood of the people, in 1986, the LGU of Tubod, Lanao del Norte initiated the conceptualization of a festival that would give an all out emphasis on Council was organized to assist the LGU of Tubod in designing what is now known as the Sagingan Festival, as well as to determined priority measures to enhance the product of the economic symbol of Tubod. With close coordination of the Department of Agriculture, the banana yields of Tubod were given special treatment ( ex. Research, variety classification, soil analysis etc.). In 1987, the first Sagingan Festival celebrated by Tubod during the commemoration of the Towns creation (Charter day October 17). The celebration highlighted the presentation of the different varieties of bananas In Tubod (52 varieties as of last count). Seeing the festival enlightens the Tubodnons on the importance of Bananas in generation income, it was enhanced, developed, and sustained by the LGU of Tubod. Indeed, from the time, a portion of the LGU's 20% development fund was allocated for the Sagingan Festival. In 1992, Sagingan Festival was officially accredited with the Department of Tourism and included in the calendar festival in the entire Philippines. There festivals are highlighted with Street dancing Competition, Best Decorated Caromata, Booth Contest, Search for Ms. Sagingan Festival which use of 75% of Banana materials, banana Festival, and Agro-industrial Trade Fair. Folk Dance Competition and Sports Competition were incorporated to add and grandeur to the celebration. Romana dela Cruz-Neri is known as the Grandmother of the Sagingan Festival.


== Healthcare ==
Tubod Community Hospital - Brgy. San Antonio
Rural Health Unit - Poblacion
Dr. Jaimi L. Intong Medical Clinic and laboratory
LabwoRx Medical and Diagnostic Clinic


== Education ==
Elementary:

All 24 barangays
Secondary:

Mercy Junior College (Private)
A.A.Q.N.H.S (Bualan)
T.A.Q.N.H.S (Pualas)
L.N.P.S.H.S (Malingao)
Rufo Dela Cruz Integrated School
Pigcarangan Integrated School
Dalama Integrated School
Vocational:

TESDA-LNNAIS
Main Campus (Bualan)
Satellite Campus (Tubod)
Tertiary:

Tubod College - the first tertiary school in town and the first LGU funded in the Province.
Mindanao Cooperative Institute of Technology. (Defunct)


== Media ==
93.5 MHz Radyo Arangkada
94.3 MHz DXNE Radyo Kalambuan
97.1 MHz Spring FM


== References ==


== External links ==
Tubod Profile at the DTI Cities and Municipalities Competitive Index
Philippine Standard Geographic Code
Official site of Tubod
Philippine Census Information
Local Governance Performance Management System Archived May 27, 2012, at the Wayback Machine

Air Assault on Crete is a wargame published by Avalon Hill in 1977 that simulates the Battle of Crete during World War II.


== Description ==
Air Assault on Crete is a two-player wargame that simulates the German paratroop attack on Crete on May 20, 1941; one player takes on the defense of Crete by Allied forces, and the other player controls the invading German forces. The game provides a series of scenarios designed to simulate the various skirmishes and battles over the ten-day campaign at a company/battalion level. The 3-part 66 in × 8 in (1,680 mm × 200 mm) mapboard uses a hex grid scaled to 1.6 kilometres per hex. Other components include a 24-page rulebook and over 500 die-cut counters.
Each turn, the German player completes five phases, and then the Allied player completes three phases:

German Play Segment
Aircraft Placement & Bombardment Phase
Airborne Assault and Air Landing Phase. German paratroops take losses both from scattering as they drop and from enemy fire, consolidated into a single die roll (unlike other games such as Descent on Crete, in which the two processes are shown separately).
Sea Movement Phase
Movement Phase
Combat Phase
Allied Play Segment
Sea Movement Phase
Movement Phase
Combat Phase
As in reality the Allied forces are deployed to resist an amphibious landing from the north, and in the first turn each unit is only allowed to move a single hex. The Germans need to seize airfields with paratroopers to allow air landing of reinforcements, and also to seize a beach to allow sea landing of heavier supplies. The Germans have only a rough idea of Allied strengths as their counters are initially inverted, concealing their strength. Air rules are abstract.
Players can choose the Basic Game, with simplified rules and victory conditions, or the Advanced Game.
A separate bonus game, Invasion of Malta, 1942, is also included. The game simulates Operation Herkules, a proposed German invasion of Malta that was planned by the German Supreme Command but never initiated. This game has its own counters and a separate 11 in × 16 in (280 mm × 410 mm) mapboard, and uses the same rules system as Air Assault on Crete. As in the main game, defending forces are initially inverted. Only the Northern Beach, far from the German objectives, is easy to land at. Donald Mack in The Wargamer criticised the game for omitting the cliffs which made the Western Beach an unfeasible landing zone in reality.


=== Victory conditions ===
In the Basic Game, if the Germans can seize one airfield and hold it for four turns, then the German player wins the game.
In the Advanced Game, there are several routes to victory:

If the Germans fail to seize an airfield by Turn 8, then the Allied player wins.
If the Germans seize an airfield by Turn 8, the Allied player can still win by successfully evacuating combatant and non-combatant units via any of seven designated escape routes on Turn 8 or later (they were evacuated by sea from the south of Crete). If the Allied player has inflicted more than 75 German casualty losses, and has evacuated 80 casualty points in combat units or non-combatants after Turn 8, then the Allied player wins. If both of these conditions are not met, then the German player wins.


== Publication history ==
Air Assault on Crete and its companion game Invasion of Malta were designed by Randall Reed and Vance von Borries and published by Avalon Hill in 1977 as a boxed set with cover art by Rodger B. MacGowan.


== Reception ==
In Issue 32 of the British wargaming magazine Perfidious Albion, Geoff Williams and Peter Bartlam discussed the game. Williams called this "A very good game ... an exciting and desperate struggle for both sides."  Williams thought the rules were clear and unambiguous but found issues with the breakdown and rebuild of battalions, and the "too perfect" Allied aircraft. Williams also felt the game should have been broken down into three shorter scenarios. Bartlam replied that the game had been "very enjoyable. The rules are straightforward enough for ease of play but with enough features ... to make it interesting."  Bartlam thought the advanced rules made the game very well balanced, but found the basic game favored the German player. Williams concluded, "AAoC is a good game which gives a feeling of the fierce fighting for Crete. I can recommend it to anyone, especially if you have played Arnhem." Bartlam concluded, "It is ... an entertaining game and I hope many prospective buyers are not put off by what I consider to be the worst box-art [Avalon Hill] has come up with."
In the November–December 1978 issue of The Phoenix (Issue 16), Ralph Vickers called Air Assault on Crete "a good game for exercising your skills of simulating your own plans and out-guessing your opponent." While Vickers found most of the rules had "good internal logic", he criticized one rule about evacuation that prevented non-combatant units from leaving their initial sector until Turn 8, saying, "What rationale can make this convincing and realistic?" While Vickers agreed that without this rule, the game "won't hang together", he called the rule "hocus-pocus". Despite this fault, Vickers concluded by giving the game a thumbs up, saying, "this is a game that is going to stay high on the popularity charts for a long time."
In The General, Vance von Borries pointed out that even if the German player is able to capture one or more airfields, the game is far from over if the Allied player can evacuate as quickly as possible. "Although the German player has the unique ability to launch [a] humiliating aerial envelopment, the Commonwealth player can still turn that euphoric and overconfident airborne glory into a bloody fool holding an empty bag. Air Assault on Crete is, in that respect, probably the most satisfying wargame ever developed."
In his 1980 book  The Best of Board Wargaming , Nicholas Palmer noted that "The title game is varied and interesting, but it is really upstaged by the beautiful cameo game Invasion of Malta which AH throw into the same box as a bonus!" Although he found that "the simulation is colourful but not terribly convincing", he concluded by giving the game an excellent "excitement" rating of 100%, and a rules clarity rating of 90%, saying, "The intricate victory conditions make for a challenging players' game, ideal for working out subtle defences and assault plans in between games."  Palmer agreed with the game's decision to ignore the naval battles, in which Commonwealth ships took heavy losses to German aircraft while trying to disrupt the Axis naval forces, and to focus on the paratroop landings.
In the 1980 book The Complete Book of Wargames, game designer Jon Freeman called the game system "fairly basic and arguably dated [...] It has none of the insight of Simulations Publications' Descent on Crete, but it's a heck of a lot more fun to play." Freeman concluded by giving the game an Overall Evaluation of "Good", saying, "Sophisticated gamers may be somewhat disappointed, but most will enjoy the challenge of planning an invasion — or trying to repel it."  
In  The Escapist, John Keefer said, "The game does a good job of approximating the troop strengths, drops and reserves from the battle, offering several scenarios set over the course of the 10-day battle."


== Further reviews ==
Campaign, Issue 85: "Thumbnail Analysis: Air Assault on Crete" (Don Lowry)
Campaign, Issue 86: "Review, Analysis and Impressions"  (John G. Alsen)
Fire & Movement, Issue 14: "Air Assault on Crete" (A. Doum)
The Wargamer, Vol. 1, #4: "Briefing: Air Assault on Crete" (Jack Greene)
Casus Belli #5 (Sept 1981)


== References ==


== External links ==
Air Assault on Crete   at BoardGameGeek

Evans Owusu Nyarko  is a Ghanaian-born German football midfielder.
In 2013, he joined Borussia Dortmund II.


== References ==


== External links ==
Evans Nyarko at fussballdaten.de (in German)
Evans Nyarko at Kicker (in German)
Evans Nyarko at Soccerway

"Get in with Me" is a song by American rapper BossMan Dlow, released on January 18, 2024, as a two-track single along with his song "Piss Me Off". Considered his breakout hit, it gained traction on the video-sharing platform TikTok and became his first song to chart on the Billboard Hot 100, debuting at number 68.


== Background ==
"Get in with Me" originated as a freestyle rap that BossMan Dlow performed on the freestyle series Kreepin Through the Streetz. A clip of the performance went viral on Instagram and TikTok, due to his "choppy, unconventional delivery" and "Florida twang". The song has been used in over 130,000 clips on TikTok.
According to Luminate, the song amassed 8.4 million official streams in the United States in the February 2–8 tracking week.


== Composition ==
The song contains a "pummeling Michigan-style beat", over which BossMan Dlow raps about topics such as reckless driving and going to the club for free.


== Charts ==


=== Weekly charts ===


=== Year-end charts ===


== Certifications ==


== References ==

The Sarawagi or Saraogi or Sarawgi Jain community, meaning a Jain Śrāvaka, is also known as the Khandelwal. They originated from Khandela, a historical town in northern Rajasthan.
The Sarawagi community owes its name to a strong historical association with Jainism. Also technically the term Sarawagi or shravaka is applicable to all Jains, the Khandelwal Jains is the only community that has used it extensively, although the term is sometimes also used by Jain Agrawals in Rajasthan.
The Khandelwals have 84 divisions. The legendary origin of these divisions is given in a 17th-century book, "Shravakotpatti Varnanam". It mentions how the ruler Girakhandel of Khandela was planning to sacrifice one thousand Jain monks in a naramedha yajña. However, with the assistance of goddess Chakreshvari, muni Jinasena persuaded the ruler to give up violence. The ruler along with his eighty-three chiefs became Jain Śrāvakas, giving rise to eighty-four gotra.


== Organizations ==
The Khandelwal Digambar Jain Mahasabha was founded by Lunkaran Pandya of Jhalarapatan  and Padam Chand Benara of Agra (both then living in Bombay) on 28 Feb. 1916 in Bombay. The first convention of the Mahasabha was held in 1920, where the publication of "Khandelwal jain Hitechchhu" was initiated. Several regional branches of the Mahasabha were established; however, they all became inactive around 1932. The Mahasabha has been revived recently, its current office is in Lucknow.
It has recently several published directories. So far the community count has been done for 1794 towns with 29,944 families and  185,556 individuals. This does not include the city of Jaipur, which is the largest center.


== Prominent Khandelwal Jains ==

Jivaraj Papriwal (Pratishtas in 1491 AD)
Pandit Todarmal (1719–1766), author of Moksh Marg Prakashak
Poet Bhudhardas (1700–1765) 
Poet Budhjan, 1770-1838 CE  


== Agarwal Sarawagis ==
The term Sarawagi is also used by are Agarwal Sarawagis from Churu as well as other districts of Rajasthan. They are a section of Agrawal Jain community.


== See also ==
Agrawal Jain
Jainism
Jainism in Rajasthan
Kasliwal


== Notes ==


== References ==
Qvarnström, Olle; Jaini, Padmanabh S. (2003), Jainism and early Buddhism: essays in honor of Padmanabh S. Jaini, Jain Publishing Company, ISBN 978-0-89581-956-7

Tŵr Mawr lighthouse (meaning "great tower" in Welsh), on Ynys Llanddwyn on Anglesey, Wales, marks the western entrance to the Menai Strait.


== History ==
Caernarfon harbour board commissioned improvements to a "day mark" (an unlit tower) in 1842, because of the proximity of Llanddwyn Point to the harbour bar. The light came into service in 1846. The lantern and fittings cost £250 7s 6d, including the adaptation of the earlier tower. The lantern, originally comprising six Argand lamps burning colzo oil and fitted with catoptric reflectors, was made by De Ville & Co, London. It projected a fixed red beam from a window on the ground floor of the attached "lean-to" building. This was visible over distance of five miles (in clear weather) between bearings of N.W. by N. and S.W. by W., to provide a marker for the entrance to Menai Strait. A black ball was hoisted from a signal staff to indicate when there was a depth of at least ten feet of water over the Carnarfon bar.
A smaller, conical tower, with a domed top, is located to the south-east, and may be an earlier structure. The walls are 6 feet 8 inches (2.03 m) in radius and 3 feet (0.91 m) thick, with a door to the north-west, and show signs of cracking to the rubble-filled walls on the west.
Neither tower is shown on the chart of Lewis Morris, dated 1801, but they both appear on the Ordnance Survey 1818-1823 2 inches/mile map. They both probably originated as unlit markers. The cottages nearby have been used as craft workshops, and the local community here once serviced pilot-boats and lifeboats.
The tower is tapered in a style characteristic of Anglesey windmills. It is 33 feet (10 m) high and 18 feet (5.5 m) in diameter. It may have been constructed by an Anglesey stone mason, and it is possible that the tower itself was originally used as a windmill. The higher floors in the tower provided accommodation. The north-east door is flanked by small windows, and the two floors above also have small windows, but the top does not. The conical roof is slated and has a flagpole. The lantern window is about 6 feet 6 inches (1.98 m) by 2 feet (0.61 m).
The lighthouse was designated as Grade II listed building in 1996.


== Replacement ==
In 1975 the function of the Tŵr Mawr lighthouse was taken over when more modern equipment, showing flashing red and white sector lights, was installed in the nearby smaller tower, the Tŵr Bach ("Little Tower") lighthouse (53.1343°N 4.4129°W﻿ / 53.1343; -4.4129).


== See also ==
List of lighthouses in Wales


== References ==


== External links ==

Alexandrovo-Maryino (Russian: Александрово-Марьино) is a rural locality (a village) in Posyolok imeni Zhelyabovo, Ustyuzhensky District, Vologda Oblast, Russia. The population was 33 as of 2002.


== Geography ==
Alexandrovo-Maryino is located 18 km (11 mi) northeast of Ustyuzhna (the district's administrative centre) by road. Matveyevo is the nearest rural locality.


== References ==

Stephen V. Cole is an American game designer and the CEO of Amarillo Design Bureau (also known as ADB or, incorrectly, Starfleet Games) which publishes Star Fleet Battles, Federation and Empire, Federation Commander, Prime Directive (a series of RPGs for D20, D20M, and GURPS), and other wargames set in the Star Fleet Universe. ADB became ADB, Inc., in 1999.


== Career ==
Stephen Cole is a registered engineer and former Texas State Guard company commander (and operations officer). He was awarded the Texas Medal of Merit with "V" for valor,  a non U.S. military citation.  While attending school at Texas Tech in 1973, he founded the company JagdPanther Publications, which published JagdPanther (1973–1976), a magazine which featured complete small games in every issue in addition to scenarios and variants for existing games. Allen Eldridge, who Cole had previously met at an Amarillo game club, joined Cole at his company a few years later. the company published several games separate from the magazine. Cole and Eldridge made the decision in November 1976 to close the company, and then shut the company down in spring 1977. They closed the company after paying all of its bills and subscriptions. JP Publications operated from 1973 to 1977.
In autumn 1978, Cole and Eldridge co-founded Task Force Games to sell games only to wholesalers and retailers and initially not to individual consumers. They started a "Pocket Games" line, with four science-fiction releases in 1979 designed by Cole: Starfire, Asteroid Zero-Four, Cerberus, and Star Fleet Battles. Cole had first conceived the idea of Star Fleet Battles in 1975, and finally published the game after obtaining a license from Franz Joseph. Cole's Valkenburg Castle was also released in 1979, and was the company's first fantasy game. Cole has designed over 100 published games on many subjects. He won two Charles Roberts awards for JagdPanther and several awards for Star Fleet Battles.
Stephen V. Cole took ROTC from 1971 to 1975 but the Army chose not to offer him an active duty slot and was placed in the inactive reserves, never attending Officer Basic Course (OBC). He has made claim to have taken US Army Command & General Staff School (a master's degree in military science) through the Army Reserve and the influence of his father, a serving Colonel in the U.S. Army at the time. He wrote and published the military intelligence newsletter For Your Eyes Only from 1983 to 1999. He was a consultant to the military and DIA during this time. He has written over 200 articles on military affairs for several magazines.
As the Pocket Games line ended in 1983, Cole left Task Force Games and formed the new company Amarillo Design Bureau, which would be his design house for more Star Fleet Battles products. Through the Amarillo Design Bureau, Cole continued to support Star Fleet Battles heavily. After Task Force Games was sold to John Olsen in April 1990, Olsen relocated the company back to Amarillo so that they could better coordinate with Cole. Task Force Games refocused on Star Fleet Battles beginning with Cole's Star Fleet Battles Captain's Edition Basic Set in 1990. Cole took over publishing Star Fleet Battles in 1999, and in the process made Amarillo Design Bureau into a corporation. Star Fleet Battles continues to be published by Amarillo Design Bureau and was inducted into the Academy of Adventure Gaming, Arts, & Design Hall of Fame in 2005 where they stated that "Star Fleet Battles literally defined the genre of spaceship combat games in the early 1980s, and was the first game that combined a major license with 'high re-playability'."
Cole was previously a contributor to StrategyPage that "provides quick, easy access to what is going on in military affairs."
Cole has been married since 1979 to Leanna. They have owned several Felis bengalensis wildcat crossbreeds. Cole regularly visits the Wild Spirit Wolf Sanctuary where he gives talks on wolf nutrition and behavior as Chef Steve.


== Bibliography ==
Star Fleet Battles: A Captain's Log #14 - Betrayal at Oxvind V (Paperback - 1994)
Captains Log Trek Star Fleet (Paperback - Jan 1, 1993)
Introduction to Star Fleet Battles (Paperback)
Star Fleet Battles: The Best of NEXUS (Captain's Edition, Captain's Log #13), with Steven P. Petrick (Paperback - Nov 14, 1993)
Star Fleet Battles Captain's Log #15, with Steven P. Petrick (Paperback - 1994)
Star Fleet Battles Advanced Fighters Captain's Module J2 (Paperback - 2002)


== References ==


== External links ==
Amarillo Design Bureau
Stephen V. Cole   at BoardGameGeek

Jonathan Lee Pratt (born 3 January 1995), known professionally as JZyNO, is a Liberian singer and songwriter from Buchanan. He currently resides in Ghana and is known for the hit single "Butta My Bread", which features vocals by Ghanaian musician Lasmid.


== Early life and career ==
Jonathan Lee Pratt was born on 3 January 1995, in Buchanan, Grand Bassa County, to a Liberian-Portuguese father and a Nigerien-Liberian mother. He has cited Kendrick Lamar, Wizkid, and Bryson Tiller as his key musical influences. JZyNO's first song to gain recognition was the 2019 single "Kpan Kpan Me". He later released the single "Butta My Bread", which features vocals by Ghanaian singer Lasmid. The song debuted at number 50 on the Billboard U.S. Afrobeats Songs chart, making it their first entry on the chart. "Butta My Bread" also peaked at number 16 on the UK Afrobeats Singles Chart in 2023, spending four weeks on the chart. In 2023, JZyNO won four awards at the Liberia Music Awards and released the amapiano single "Yakunay".


== Awards and nominations ==


== Discography ==


=== Singles ===
"Butta My Bread" (featuring Lasmid) (2023)
"Kpan Kpan Me (Angelina)" (2019)
"Mood" (featuring Khaid) (2024)
"Eyes on You" (featuring Camidoh) (2023)
"Fall Down Inside" (featuring Medikal) (2022)
"Onana" (2022)
"Mamie Watta" (2021)
''Go Down'' (featuring The Game) (2025)
''Asor'' (Amerado ft JZyNO) (2025)
"Yakunay" (2023)


== See also ==
List of Liberian musicians


== References ==


== External links ==
JZyNO at AllMusic

Cecil Lee Brower (November 28, 1914 – November 21, 1965) was a classically trained American jazz violinist who became an architect of Western swing in the 1930s. Perhaps the greatest swing fiddler, he could improvise as well as double shuffle and created his own style which became the benchmark for his contemporaries.
Brower played in many Western bands, including his own, and was a renowned Nashville session musician. He performed with some of the biggest names in country music until his death at age 50 while a member of Jimmy Dean's band. Brower is a member of the Texas Music Hall of Fame.


== Biography ==
Cecil Brower was born in Bellevue, Texas on November 28, 1914. He moved to San Pedro, California with his family as a boy, but they returned to Texas in 1924, settling in Fort Worth. His father, Hubert, insisted he learn an instrument so he received formal violin lessons from Wylbert Brown, who was also teaching Kenneth Pitts.
Brown later said it gave Brower an edge on other "hillbilly" fiddlers "who had no bowing technique." Brower and Pitts played together locally in the Junior Harmony Club, and both were influenced by jazz and big bands.
In 1931, he joined Pitts to form The Southern Melody Boys with Bob Wren and Burke Reeder, which became the first string band to feature improvised solos, patterned after jazz violinist Joe Venuti, who Brower idolized. He was the first to master the double shuffle, a bowing technique devised by Venuti in the late 1920s described as an off-beat shuffling movement. Brower used it to great effect and passed it along to other Texas fiddlers in the early 1930s. The Southern Melody Boys played popular music and appeared on WBAP-AM and KTAT-AM in Fort Worth.


=== Brownies and Doughboys ===
Brower majored in music at Texas Christian University and played briefly with the Dallas Symphony Orchestra, 
but his big break came when he became a member of the first true Western swing band, Milton Brown and His Musical Brownies. In January 1933, Brower, playing harmony, joined fiddler Jesse Ashlock to create the first example of harmonizing twin fiddles.
Brower learned the art of breakdown fiddling from Brown's banjoist, Ocie Stockard, and developed a free-swinging style which became the cornerstone of fiddlers in Western swing bands. The twin fiddles often heard in the Brownies' music (setting a pattern that lasted for decades in country music) are those of Brower and Cliff Bruner, a later addition to the band.
The group had a regular spot on KTAT-AM, but frequently performed in Waco, where Brower met Jeff Knight, a breakdown fiddle player with whom he became good friends. Brower married Knight's daughter, Sybil, on March 23, 1937. After Brown's death in 1936, Brower joined the staff of WRR-AM in Dallas, where he worked for $14 a week, and played dances with Roy Newman and His Boys.
In October 1936, Brower recorded with Bill Boyd and His Cowboy Ramblers in San Antonio; and in June 1937 with Bob Dunn.
That same week he made his only recording with Bob Wills and The Texas Playboys. He then toured with bandleader Ted Fio Rito's orchestra until returning to Texas in 1939, when he joined the Light Crust Doughboys. Brower, replacing Buck Buchanan as fiddler in the string section but playing lead (Buchanan had played harmony), was also reunited with Kenneth Pitts. The group enjoyed great popularity, and by the 1940s was heard over 170 radio stations in the South and Southwest.


=== Kilocycle Cowboys ===
After serving from 1942–46 in the US Coast Guard during and briefly after World War II, Brower played with the Hi-Flyers before forming Cecil Brower's Cowboy Band in Fort Worth in 1947, which moved to Odessa in 1948 and became known as Cecil Brower and His Kilocycle Cowboys. The group included Jack Jordan (bass), Buster Ferguson (guitar, vocals), Andy Schroder (steel guitar) and Frank Reneau (piano). The band performed at the Oasis nightclub and recorded at KECK-AM in Odessa.
From 1949–51, Brower played with Leon McAuliffe, then from 1951–52 with Al Dexter and His Troopers. He also performed with Patsy Montana and Her Pardners, and the Coffee Grinders, a later interim name of the Doughboys.


=== 1950s–1960s ===
In 1955, Brower became a regular performer on ABC-TV's Ozark Jubilee in Springfield, Missouri for several years, and in 1960, was playing with the Ft. Worth-based Bob Bohm Trio. He soon moved to Nashville, Tennessee and became a much sought-after session musician. He accompanied, among others, Elvis Presley, Patsy Cline (viola), Roy Orbison, Marty Robbins, Loretta Lynn and Brenda Lee; in 1963, former Doughboy John "Knocky" Parker called Brower "one of the finest jazz violinists...[He] is now the leading hillbilly violinist in Nashville."
In the summer of 1961, he appeared on NBC-TV's Five Star Jubilee. In 1962, "Cousin" Cecil Brower And His Square Dance Fiddlers released the album, America's Favorite Square Dances (Mercury MGS 27015, also issued on Smash SRS 67015 and Cumberland green label 29509); and in 1970, Cumberland issued the group's Old Fashion Country Hoedown (Cumberland 29500).
He joined Jimmy Dean's band in 1963 and appeared on ABC-TV's The Jimmy Dean Show. On November 21, 1965, Dean performed at Carnegie Hall, and during a party later at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, Brower died suddenly from a perforated ulcer, a week short of his 51st birthday.


== Notes ==


== References ==
Coffey, Kevin (2004), The Encyclopedia of Country Music: The Ultimate Guide to the Music, Sourcebooks, Inc., ISBN 0-19-517608-1.
Dempsey, John Mark (2002), The Light Crust Doughboys are on the Air: Celebrating Seventy Years of Texas Music, University of North Texas Press, ISBN 1-57441-151-9.
Erlewine, Michael (1997), All Music Guide to Country, Hal Leonard Corporation, ISBN 0-87930-475-8.
Ginell, Cary; Brown, Roy Lee (1994), Milton Brown and the Founding of Western Swing, University of Illinois Press, ISBN 0-252-02041-3.
Malone, Bill C. (2002), Country Music, U.S.A, third edition, University of Texas Press, ISBN 0-292-75262-8.
"The Origins of The Texas Style of Traditional Old Time Fiddling". Texas Old Time Fiddlers Association. Archived from the original on November 30, 2016. Retrieved April 24, 2009.
Saffle, Michael (2000), Perspectives on American Music, 1900-1950, Taylor & Francis, ISBN 0-8153-2145-7.
Torreano, Bradley. "Mini Profiles on Traditional Country Artists and Legends". All Music Guide. Archived from the original on February 13, 2012. Retrieved April 21, 2009.


== External links ==
Watch Bob Wills with Cecil Brower on Jubilee USA, "Fiddle Breakdown", June 27, 1959 (Country Music Hall of Fame website)
Listen to Cecil Brower and His Kilocycle Cowboys
The Light Crust Doughboys at the Rockabilly Hall of Fame Archived 2018-02-17 at the Wayback Machine
1947 photos of Cecil Brower's Cowboy Band at radio station KECK in Odessa at the Portal to Texas History
Cecil Brower recordings at the Discography of American Historical Recordings.

Madeline Christine Alyette Schizas (born February 14, 2003) is a Canadian figure skater. She is a three-time ISU Challenger Series bronze medallist, the 2020 Challenge Cup bronze medallist, and a four-time Canadian national champion (2022–23, 2025–26). She represented Canada at the 2022 and 2026 Winter Olympics.


== Personal life ==
Schizas was born on February 14, 2003, in Oakville, Ontario. She is the daughter of economist Linda Nazareth, and former broadcaster Lou Schizas. Her mother is of Indian Canadian ancestry while her father is Greek Canadian and French Canadian.
Schizas attended White Oaks Secondary School in Oakville. She was accepted to study Urban Planning at the University of Waterloo beginning in the fall of 2021 and stated her long-term aim was to become a physician. She subsequently transferred to McMaster University, where she graduated from in June 2026.


== Career ==


=== Early years ===
Schizas began learning to skate in 2006. As a child, she attended the 2010 Winter Olympics skating competitions in Vancouver, and in later years would cite witnessing bronze medallist Joannie Rochette's famous short program as "an inspiring moment, and it's one I will never forget." She placed sixth skating in the novice ranks at the 2018 Canadian Championships and won silver as a junior at the 2019 Canadian Championships.
In 2019, she served as a skating double during the filming of the Netflix drama Spinning Out.


=== 2019–2020 season: National bronze ===
Making her junior international debut, Schizas placed fifth at the Volvo Open Cup in November 2019 in Riga, Latvia. She then won gold in the senior women's category at the Skate Canada Challenge, qualifying her to compete as a senior at the 2020 Canadian Championships.  At the Championships in January, she placed second in the short program despite performing only a double toe loop as the second part of her planned jump combination.  She was third in the free skate after making several jump errors, including four singled attempts at a double Axel, and as a result, won the bronze medal, finishing 7.47 points behind the champion, Emily Bausback, and 0.87 behind silver medallist Alison Schumacher.  Schizas remarked afterward, "the four single Axels, I don't even know what I was thinking, and the fourth one was an invalid combo, so there were some mental mistakes, but I think it comes along with experience, which you cannot buy."
In February, Schizas won gold in Group II junior ladies at the Bavarian Open. Her senior international debut came later that month at the International Challenge Cup in The Hague, Netherlands. Ranked sixth in the short and third in the free, she finished third overall behind Japan's Rika Kihira and Yuhana Yokoi and was awarded the bronze medal. Her score, 175.56, was the highest score by any Canadian lady that season, though it did not count toward the official ISU Season Best Scores. She was also the only Canadian lady to medal at any senior event that season. Despite this fact, she was passed up for the 2020 World Championships and the 2020 Junior Worlds in favour of more experienced competitors.


=== 2020–2021 season: Worlds debut ===
Schizas was named to the Canadian national team by virtue of being the reigning national bronze medallist. She was assigned to make her Grand Prix debut at the 2020 Skate Canada International, but the event was cancelled as a result of the coronavirus pandemic.  Schizas planned to introduce the triple Lutz jump into her programs for the new season, having worked on it for a few years previously without sufficient results.  Repeating her short program from the previous season, she selected the music from The Umbrellas of Cherbourg for a new free skate, in tribute to ice dancers Tessa Virtue and Scott Moir, who had performed to it in the 2007–08 season.
With the pandemic continuing to affect competitions, Schizas first won the Ontario Sectional Championships, held virtually.  The 2021 Skate Canada Challenge was also organized virtually, filmed in November and December and then judged in January.  She placed fourth in the short program, executing only a double toe loop as part of her combination and making a serious error on her triple loop.  She won the free skate decisively, landing six of seven planned triple jumps, including a triple Lutz-triple toe loop combination for the first time.  She won her second consecutive gold medal at Challenge.  This would have qualified her to the 2021 Canadian Championships, but they were cancelled as a result of the pandemic, making it impossible to hold an in-person contest. Skating journalist Beverley Smith remarked, "we can't technically call Madeline Schizas a Canadian champion", "but effectively, she is."
On February 25, Schizas was announced as one of the two ladies' entries' to the 2021 World Championships in Stockholm, along with Emily Bausback, her debut at an ISU championship. She placed thirteenth, including setting a personal best with a ninth-place finish in the short program. Schizas' placement qualified a berth for Canada at the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing.


=== 2021–2022 season: First National title, Beijing Olympics ===

In addition to longtime choreographer Asher Hill, Schizas collaborated on her Madama Butterfly free program with Lance Vipond, the regular choreographer of retired Canadian women's skating star Kaetlyn Osmond. She began the season at the Skating Club of Boston's Cranberry Cup, where she finished in fifth. She was next assigned to make her Challenger debut at the 2021 CS Finlandia Trophy, where she placed ninth, including setting a new personal best in the free skate. Schizas said she was pleased with the free skate, an opportunity to introduce new technical content.
Schizas made her Grand Prix debut at the 2021 Skate Canada International, where she placed ninth in both segments for eighth place overall, with a new personal best in total score. She was the highest-ranked Canadian woman in the event, finishing 26.68 points ahead of the next-ranked Emily Bausback in eleventh. She identified adding speed to her skating as her primary focus for improvement. In the interval between events, she competed domestically, winning the Ontario Sectionals for the third consecutive year. At her second Grand Prix, the 2021 Rostelecom Cup, she placed fourth in the short program with a clean skate. She made two errors in the free skate, stepping out of her triple flip and then doubling a planned triple Salchow, but still finished sixth overall, the highest Grand Prix placement for a Canadian woman in four years. Schizas noted that Rostelecom was "the biggest audience I've ever skated to. I think it was a great experience for hopefully the Olympics and World Championships."
Not having finished behind another Canadian woman in competition in almost two years, Schizas entered the 2022 Canadian Championships as the favourite for the title. Skating cleanly in the short program, she won that segment by 12.70 points. Despite some jump errors, she easily won the free skate as well, taking the gold medal and becoming the presumptive nominee for the Canadian Olympic team. Speaking afterward, she said that looking ahead to Beijing, "my biggest goal is to avoid catching COVID" in the weeks remaining before departure. On January 9, she was named to the Olympic team.

As the lone Canadian women's singles skater, Schizas began the 2022 Winter Olympics as her country's entry in the women's segments of the Olympic team event. With the women skating last among the short program segments, due to the underperformance of Canada's entries in the first three, especially that of Roman Sadovsky, Schizas was under significant pressure to perform and elevate Canada into the top five to qualify for the free skate. Delivering a clean short program and a new personal best score, she unexpectedly ranked third and took Canada from sixth place to fourth overall. Schizas said she was "a little bit nervous before today about being a part of the team and skating individually, but they gave me so much support, and I just loved the experience." Skating the free segment, she again placed third with a new personal best, the only error being a doubled attempt at a triple Lutz. Schizas' performances were widely cited as the highlight of the event for Team Canada, which finished in fourth place. However, the results of the team event were soon after thrown into doubt after a positive doping test for Russian skater Kamila Valieva resulted in the medal ceremony being delayed indefinitely. When asked about the possibility of the Canadian team being moved up to third, Schizas noted, "we have not won a medal yet; we're waiting on the outcome of the investigation. So once that happens, we'll see where the pieces fall."
In the Olympic women's event, Schizas stepped out of the landing of her triple Lutz and, as a result, had to salvage a combination on her triple loop, managing only a double toe loop instead of a triple. She placed twentieth, advancing to the free skate, and calling it "an up-and-down performance." She struggled with her jumps in the free skate, finishing eighteenth and moving up to nineteenth place overall. Schizas attributed her individual event performance to the difficulties of performing four programs in a short span and added that "the most important event here for me was the team event, as Canada had a chance at a medal there. That's really where my focus was."
Days after the Olympics concluded, the International Skating Union banned all Russian and Belarusian skaters from competing at the 2022 World Championships due to the invasion of Ukraine. This had a major impact on the women's field, which Russians dominated for most of the preceding eight years. Schizas entered the competition with the stated goal of placing in the top ten to recover a second berth for Canadian women. She placed tenth in the short program and said she was pleased with her performance after an "up and down kind of week" in practice sessions. Tenth in the free skate as well, she finished twelfth overall, with less than half a point separating her from ninth place.
In the off-season, Schizas was a guest participant in the Stars on Ice Canadian tour for the first time.


=== 2022–2023 season: Second consecutive National title ===
Beginning the season at the 2022 CS Nebelhorn Trophy, Schizas placed second in the short program but dropped to fifth overall after a tenth-place free skate. She shared the Fritz Geiger Memorial Trophy with the rest of the Canadian delegation, awarded to the top country at the competition. Schizas would later attribute her difficulties at Nebelhorn to heightened expectations from the Olympics.
Schizas' first Grand Prix assignment, the 2022 Skate Canada International, was held in Mississauga, the same location as her breakthrough bronze medal win at the Canadian Championships three seasons earlier. She said it was "weird to think how different of an experience that was." She unexpectedly won the short program, with fellow Canadian skater Gabrielle Daleman placing second. However, the free skate was once again a struggle, with several jump errors that saw her ranked ninth in the segment and dropping to seventh overall. She said afterward, "I knew full well that door was open. I just didn't figure out how to walk through it." Schizas went on to finish fifth at the 2022 Grand Prix of Espoo, her new highest placement on the Grand Prix. Following this, she was sent to the 2022 CS Golden Spin of Zagreb. Fourth in the short program, she rose to third in the free skate and won the bronze medal, her first on the Challenger circuit.
Entering the 2023 Canadian Championships as the favourite to retain her title, Schizas stepped out of her triple loop, but still placed first with score of 68.32, 7.11 points clear of her longtime friend and training mate Lia Pereira in second place. In the free skate she doubled a planned triple flip and had rough landings on a few other jumps in the second half of her program. She placed second in that segment, behind Kaiya Ruiter, but remained first overall and won her second national title. She called the experience "pretty surreal." Her coach, Nancy Lemaire, said that they would continue to look at improving her consistency on the flip jump, which Lemaire said she could do fine in practice. Schizas was named as Canada's lone women's entry to the 2023 World Championships, and also assigned to the 2023 Four Continents Championships.
Schizas finished tenth at the Four Continents Championships. Having struggled with her West Side Story free program all season, she opted to revert to her previous Madama Butterfly program for the World Championships. She came thirteenth. Schizas then joined Team Canada for the 2023 World Team Trophy. She finished fourth in the short program with a new personal best score of 69.76. She struggled in the free skate, coming ninth in that segment, and admitted afterward "I am happy to be done with the season now." Team Canada finished sixth.


=== 2023–2024 season ===

Following what she considered underwhelming results in the post-Olympic season, Schizas opted to seek new assistance with choreography. For her short program, she traveled to the Ice Academy of Montreal's London campus to work with Scott Moir, Madison Hubbell and Adrián Díaz using the music "Farrucas"; she noted it was popular in ice dance, saying "all three of my choreographers had used that music before — but none of them had choreographed it." For the free skate, she decided to use George Gershwin's "Summertime", working with the ice dance coaches Carol Lane and Juris Razgulajevs. On the technical side, she opted against increasing the difficulty of her elements, in favour of improving consistency.
Schizas began the season at the 2023 CS Nepela Memorial. She had the same short program score as South Korean Kim Chae-yeon, but lost the tiebreaker for the overall segment lead, thus rating second. She was fourth in the free skate, but won the bronze medal overall. She called the results "not perfect, but a big step-up from where we started last season, so I'm overall pretty happy with that." Moving on to the Grand Prix at the 2023 Skate Canada International, Schizas had a poor short program, making errors on all her jumping passes and finishing eighth in the segment. She rallied in the free skate, coming second in the segment with a new personal best (132.47), and rising to fourth overall. She had said she was "really angry" about the short program, "but I was able to put it behind me." She finished fifth at the 2023 Cup of China.

Considered the heavy favourite and going into the 2024 Canadian Championships seeking a third consecutive victory, Schizas won the short program despite performing only a triple-double combination. However, she faltered badly in the free skate, making several jump errors, coming third in that segment and finishing second overall behind Kaiya Ruiter. She called herself "hugely disappointed" in her performance, in light of what she had considered successful training the leadup, saying that it now seemed "a waste of everyone's time, including mine."
In the short program at the 2024 Four Continents Championships in Shanghai, Schizas received a quarter underrotation call on the second part of her jump combination and stepped out of her triple loop, and was ranked ninth in the segment. She improved in the free skate, her only errors being another quarter underrotation on a triple loop and a stepout on a double Axel, and rose to sixth overall. Schizas called the result "a step up from nationals," adding that she had followed the advice of national ice dance champion Piper Gilles that "I could just wash off the bad vibes of the old costume" by getting a new one for the free skate program.
Schizas was assigned to Canada's lone berth at the 2024 World Championships, to be held in Montreal. She noted that this was particularly significant in terms of location, as both of her parents were originally from the city. Entering with the hope of reaching the top ten for the first time, she encountered difficulties in the short program, doubling a planned triple toe loop and landing her triple loop roughly, and came seventeenth in the segment. Despite this, she described the crowd reception as a "special moment." The free skate proved similarly difficult, and she was seventeenth there as well, but finished eighteenth overall. Schizas would later assess that "I had a hard time all week taking my space and being aggressive on some of the practices, which is sometimes needed, sometimes not. I had a hard time doing it, and it kind of snowballed."


=== 2024–25 season ===

Following her disappointment at the 2024 World Championships, Schizas opted to reorganize her university studies to interfere less with her training, spreading her fourth year of courses out over two years. While performing with Stars on Ice in the off-season, the reception for a The Lion King show program was sufficiently positive that she decided to adapt it into a competitive program. She began the season by competing on the 2024–25 ISU Challenger Series, finishing sixth at the 2024 Cranberry Cup International, seventh at the 2024 Nebelhorn Trophy, and fifth at the 2024 Budapest Trophy.
On the 2024–25 Grand Prix circuit, Schizas competed first at the 2024 Skate Canada International, where she finished fifth in the short program, fourth in the free skate, and fifth overall. Despite this being a lower ordinal than the previous year, she cited it as an improvement due to being only 1.33 points behind bronze medalist Hana Yoshida, as well as having been consistent across both programs. Her total score of 190.04 was her best in two seasons. Four weeks later, Schizas finished seventh at the 2024 Cup of China.
Following the end of fall competitions, Schizas opted to discard her Danse Macabre free program in favour of an early debut of the program she had intended to use for the following Olympic season, the Chinese orchestral Butterfly Lovers' Violin Concerto. She explained with regard to her former program that "the pacing was perhaps not quite the right fit for me." She said that she hoped to further refine the program, including by consulting with a Chinese dance expert. After debuting the program at a Skate Ontario training day, Schizas entered the 2025 Canadian Championships in Laval seeking to reclaim her national title. She won both segments of the competition to take the gold medal by more than twenty points.

Upon arrival in Seoul for the 2025 Four Continents Championships, Schizas was one of several members of the Canadian delegation afflicted by a stomach virus. Despite this, she was able to compete, finishing in twelfth place. Speaking after the free skate, she credited "the Canadian team staff, who helped me be able to skate today. I wasn't sure I’d be able to do it."
The 2025 World Championships in Boston served as the primary qualifying event for the 2026 Winter Olympics in Milan–Cortina d'Ampezzo, with Schizas' main goal going into the event being to place in the top ten, which would create the possibility of Canada qualifying two women. She finished sixth in the short program, but after doubling a planned triple Lutz in the free skate she came eleventh in that segment and finished eleventh overall. Her total score of 190.79 was 3.37 points behind tenth-place Kim Chae-yeon of South Korea.
Selected to compete for Team Canada at the 2025 World Team Trophy, Schizas placed seventh in the women's singles event and Team Canada finished in fifth place overall. She said the team was better prepared than during its previous appearance at the event, when the skaters were World Team Trophy rookies.


=== 2025–26 season: Milano Cortina Olympics ===

In June, Schizas shared that she had intended to keep her The Lion King short program for the upcoming Olympic season but due to quoted fees being issued to her by The Walt Disney Company for clearance rights, she opted to have a new short program created. As a result, she decided to reuse her 2022–23 short program, Black Swan.
Schizas opened her season by competing on the Challenger Series, finishing tenth at the 2025 CS Kinoshita Group Cup and winning bronze at the 2025 CS Denis Ten Memorial Challenge.
She then went on to compete on the 2025–26 Grand Prix circuit, finishing ninth at 2025 Skate Canada International. Following the event, Schizas opted to return to her The Lion King short program at the behest of Skate Canada. Going on to compete at the 2025 Finlandia Trophy, she placed third in the short program and fifth in the free skate, finishing fifth overall.
In January, Schizas competed at the 2026 Canadian Championships, winning her fourth national title. She was subsequently named to the 2026 Winter Olympic team. "I’m so excited to be going to a second Olympics," she said. "The first one was obviously COVID. I’m really excited I’ll have my family there. My aunts and uncle are coming. My parents are coming. So, I’m really, really excited that they’re all going to be there."
On February 6, Schizas placed sixth in the short program in the 2026 Winter Olympics Figure Skating Team Event. Despite a technical glitch with her music at the beginning, she said, "I'm happy with my performance today. I think that I skated my elements very well."
In the individual event, Schizas finished the short program in twenty-fifth place after she doubled an attempted triple loop jump; this was an invalid element, which gave her no points. She failed to qualify for the free skate. 
The following month, Schizas competed at the 2026 World Championships in Prague where she placed fifteenth overall, after fifteenth-place finishes in both the short program and the free skate. After her short program she shared, "I'm happy with the way I skated. I think I was able to show a lot of resilience today, coming back and putting my previous performances behind me for the World Championships. I was very relieved."


== Skating technique ==
Unlike most skaters, Schizas spins and jumps clockwise, although she is not left-handed.


== Programs ==


== Competitive highlights ==


== Detailed results ==


=== Senior level ===


=== Junior level ===


== See also ==
List of University of Waterloo people
List of people from Oakville, Ontario


== References ==


== External links ==
Madeline Schizas at the International Skating Union 
Madeline Schizas at Skate Canada
Madeline Schizas at Team Canada
Madeline Schizas at Milano Cortina 2026
Madeline Schizas at Olympics.com 
Madeline Schizas at Olympedia 
Madeline Schizas at IMDb 
Madeline Schizas on Instagram

The San Francisco Historical Society is a nonprofit organization dedicated to the preservation, interpretation, and presentation of the history of San Francisco and the surrounding Bay Area. It is a membership-based organization that holds monthly speaking programs, conducts walking tours of San Francisco, provides educational resources for grade schools and publishes original research. The Barbary Coast Trail walking tour is a project of the society as is the journal Argonaut.


== History ==
The San Francisco Historical Society was founded in 1988 by historian Charles A. Fracchia.
In February 2002, the San Francisco Historical Society merged with the Museum of the City of San Francisco to create the San Francisco Museum and Historical Society, which the San Francisco municipal government recognized in 2002 as the official historical museum of San Francisco. One of the purposes of the merger of the two organizations was to put together a single proposal to renovate and operate the Old San Francisco Mint as a history museum.
The San Francisco Museum and Historical Society took over management of the Old Mint in 2004, with plans to make it the museum's permanent home. The organization spent about US$14 million to stabilize and partially renovate the building. However, the building still needed about US$60 million in additional work, and the City of San Francisco concluded the organization was not making progress quickly enough after 11 years of work, so it ordered SFMHS to vacate the building in 2015.
In 2019, the San Francisco Historical Society returned to its original name. In October of that year, the society moved into its first museum space, at 608 Commercial Street, in San Francisco. The site was also the first mint in San Francisco (from 1854-1876), with some of the original walls and subterranean vaults still standing.
In 2023, Anchor Brewing Company donated some historical artifacts to the Historical Society and the Smithsonian.


== See also ==
Museum of the City of San Francisco
San Francisco City Guides
Museum of San Francisco


== References ==


== External links ==
San Francisco Historical Society
Photos of 608 Commercial St

The Amiens Synagogue (French: Synagogue d'Amiens) is an Orthodox Jewish congregation and synagogue, located in the city of Amiens in the Department of Somme, France. The synagogue, rededicated in 2017, replaced two previous buildings.


== History ==
In 1933 the Association cultuelle israélite de la Somme was founded in Amiens and began an affiliation with the Israelite Central Consistory of France, one of the key Orthodox bodies in France. The congregation's first president was René Louria, a businessman and confectioner in Amiens.
The first synagogue building was dedicated in 1935 by the Jewish community, located in a building on Rue du Cloître-de-la-Barge, not far from the cathedral and the courthouse. Jean Moulin, then secretary general of the Prefecture of the Somme, attended the dedication of the building.
During the Second World War, the synagogue was expropriated and set to be sold by the Nazis. Collaborationist forces in Amiens occupied the synagogue during the occupation of the city. The synagogue was returned to the Jewish community following the Liberation of France. The community's Torah scroll had been safeguarded during the war by non-Jewish members of the community. After the war, the community rebuilt despite losing synagogue president René Louria at Auschwitz.


=== Remembrance ceremony ===
On December 2, 1951, Le Souvenir français, a French association for maintaining war memorials and war memory, organized a ceremony at the synagogue to remember those in the Jewish community who were killed during the war.  Rabbi Paul Bauer of Paris gave a speech at the event, making a point to remember all the dead of the war, regardless of their political, philosophical or religious views. The service was celebrated by Henri Kahn, the chief officiant of the Grande synagogue de Paris.


=== Moving locations ===
In 1968, the synagogue was moved because the block where it was located was undergoing construction, requiring demolition of the building. A new synagogue opened its doors in 1969 at Port d'Amont, close to the Pont Beauvillé, where the community used a re-purposed garage as a worship space.
Due to a 2004 real estate deal, the synagogue's location at Port d'Amont was also moved. A new synagogue building was built a few meters from the original building on Rue du Cloître-de-la-Barge. The building was dedicated on October 22, 2017, with Chief Rabbi of France Haïm Korsia in attendance, as well as Jewish and political figures from Lille, Paris and Amiens.


== Architectural characteristics ==
The new Modernist Amiens Synagogue is the work of Paul Chemetov, who was influenced by the Bauhaus style. It is constructed according to a Parallelepipedic plan.  The facade, overlooking the Port d'Amont, is understated, decorated only with a Menorah. The sides of the building have mashrabiya openings that resemble Stars of David. A side door with the Tablets of Stone leads to the ground floor, where the sanctuary is located. On the south wall is a commemorative plaque inscribed with the names of those lost from Amiens during the Shoah. Upper floors in the building include a meeting room and other bedrooms. 


== See also ==

History of Amiens
History of the Jews in France
List of synagogues in France


== References ==


=== Bibliography ===
Hirtz, Ginette (1982). Les Hortillonnages sous la grêle, histoire d'une famille juive sous l'Occupation (in French). Paris: Mercure de France.
Viey, Frédéric; d'Almeyda, Franck (2009). Histoire des communautés juives du Nord et de Picardie depuis le Moyen-Âge (in French) (document numérique ed.).


== External links ==

Photomontage représentant la nouvelle synagogue d'Amiens, sur le site d'Amiens Aménagement (in French)
Histoire des Juifs en Picardie (in French)

Boscobel is an 1872 historical novel by the British writer William Harrison Ainsworth. It first appeared as a serial in The New Monthly Magazine before being published in three volumes by the London publishing house Tinsley Brothers. It marked a return to the historical subjects he was best known for, after producing three novels with contemporary settings such as Old Court (1867) and Myddleton Pomfret (1868). It takes place in the weeks before and following the Battle of Worcester in 1651, in which Charles II avoided capture after his defeat by his republican enemies under Oliver Cromwell. His escape included hiding in the royal oak at Boscobel House in Shropshire, from which the novel takes its title. It also formed the first of a trio of "Jacobite" novels sympathetic to the Stuart Dynasty, followed by The Manchester Rebels (1873) and Preston Fight (1875).


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Carver, Stephen James. The Life and Works of the Lancashire Novelist William Harrison Ainsworth, 1850-1882. Edwin Mellen Press, 2003.
Ellis, Stewart Marsh. William Harrison Ainsworth and His Friends, Volume 2. Garland Publishing, 1979.
Slater, John Herbert. Early Editions: A Bibliographical Survey of the Works of Some Popular Modern Authors. K. Paul, Trench, Trubner, & Company, 1894.

Apposition is a grammatical construction in which two elements, normally noun phrases, are placed side by side so one element identifies the other in a different way. The two elements are said to be "in apposition", and the element identifying the other is called the appositive. The identification of an appositive requires consideration of how the elements are used in a sentence.
For example, in these sentences, the phrases Alice Smith and my sister are in apposition, with the appositive identified with italics:

My sister, Alice Smith, likes jelly beans.
Alice Smith, my sister, likes jelly beans.
Traditionally, appositives were called by their Latin name appositio, derived from the Latin ad ("near") and positio ("placement"), although the English form is now more commonly used.
Apposition is a figure of speech of the scheme type and often results when the verbs (particularly verbs of being) in supporting clauses are eliminated to produce shorter descriptive phrases. That makes them often function as hyperbatons, or figures of disorder, because they can disrupt the flow of a sentence. For example, in the phrase "My wife, a surgeon by training, ..." it is necessary to pause before the parenthetical modification "a surgeon by training".


== Restrictive versus non-restrictive ==
A restrictive appositive provides information essential to identifying the phrase in apposition.  It limits or clarifies that phrase in some crucial way, such that the meaning of the sentence would change if the appositive were removed.  In English, restrictive appositives are not set off by commas.  The sentences below use restrictive appositives. Here and elsewhere in this section, the relevant phrases are marked as the appositive phraseA or the phrase in appositionP.

My friendP Alice SmithA likes jelly beans. – I have many friends, but I am restricting my statement to the one named Alice Smith.
He likes the television showP The SimpsonsA. – There are many television shows, and he likes that particular one.
A non-restrictive appositive provides information not critical to identifying the phrase in apposition.  It provides non-essential information, and the essential meaning of the sentence would not change if the appositive were removed.  In English, non-restrictive appositives are typically set off by commas.  The sentences below use non-restrictive appositives.

Alice SmithP, my friendA, likes jelly beans. – The fact that Alice is my friend is not necessary to identify her.
I visited CanadaP, a beautiful countryA. – The appositive (that it is beautiful) is not needed to identify Canada.
The first to arrive at the houseA, sheP unlocked the front door.
The same phrase can be a restrictive appositive in one context and a non-restrictive appositive in another:

My brotherP NathanA is here. – Restrictive: I have several brothers, and the one named Nathan is here.
My brotherP, NathanA, is here. – Non-restrictive: I have only one brother and, as an aside, his name is Nathan.
If there is any doubt that the appositive is non-restrictive, it is safer to use the restrictive punctuation.  In the example above, the restrictive first sentence is still correct even if there is only one brother.
A relative clause is not always an appositive.

My sisterP, Alice SmithA, likes jelly beans. – The appositive is the noun phrase Alice Smith.
My sisterP, a doctor whose name is Alice SmithA, likes jelly beans. – The appositive is the noun phrase with dependent relative clause a doctor whose name is Alice Smith.
My sister, whose name is Alice Smith, likes jelly beans. – There is no appositive. There is a relative clause: whose name is Alice Smith.
Example using zero article: 

The English writer Agatha ChristieP, author of nearly a hundred mystery novels and storiesA, was born in 1891.


== Examples ==

In the following examples, the appositive phrases are shown in italics:

I was born in Finland, the land of a thousand lakes. – Appositives are not limited to describing people.
Barry Goldwater, the junior senator from Arizona, received the Republican nomination in 1964. – Clarifies who Barry Goldwater is.
Ren and Stimpy, both friends of mine, are starting a band. – Provides context on my relation to Ren and Stimpy.
Alexander the Great, the Macedonian conqueror of Persia, was one of the most successful military commanders of the ancient world. – Substantiates the sentence's predicate.
Aretha Franklin, a very popular singer, will be performing at the White House. – Explains why Aretha Franklin is performing at that venue.
You are better than anyone, anyone I've ever met. – Provides additional strength to the phrase.
A staunch supporter of democracy, Ann campaigned against the king's authoritarian rule. – Indicates the reason for Ann's actions.
A false title is a kind of restrictive appositive, as in "Noted biologist Jane Smith has arrived". Here the phrase noted biologist appears without an article as if it were a title. The grammatical correctness of false titles is controversial.
Appositive phrases can also serve as definitions:

No one – not a single person – should ever suffer that way. – Emphatic semantic duplication.


== Appositive genitive ==
In several languages, the same syntax that is used to express such relations as possession can also be used appositively:

In English:
"Appositive oblique", a prepositional phrase with of as in: the month of December, the sin of pride, or the city of New York. That has also been invoked as an explanation for the double genitive: a friend of mine.
The ending -'s as in In Dublin's Fair City, which is uncommon.
In Classical Greek:
"Genitive of explanation" as in Greek: ὑὸς μέγα χρῆμα, romanized: hyòs méga chrêma, "a monster (great affair) of a boar" (Histories of Herodotus, 1.36), where ὑὸς, the word for boar is inflected for the genitive singular
In Japanese:
Postpositive no as in: Japanese: ふじの山, romanized: Fuji no Yama, lit. 'the Mountain of Fuji' and Japanese: となりのトトロ, romanized: Tonari no Totoro, lit. 'Neighbor Totoro', 'My Neighbor Totoro'
In Biblical Hebrew:
Construct, "genitive of association" as in: Hebrew: גַּן עֵדֶן, romanized: Gan 'Ēden, "the Garden of Eden"


== See also ==
Literary device
Parenthesis (rhetoric)


== Notes ==


== References ==
A comprehensive treatment of apposition in English is given in §§17.65–93 (pages 1300–1320) and elsewhere in: Randolph Quirk; Sidney Greenbaum; Geoffrey Leech; Jan Svartvik (1985). A Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language. London and New York: Longman. ISBN 0-582-51734-6.
On the apposition vs. double subject issue in Romanian, see: Appositions Versus Double Subject Sentences – What Information the Speech Analysis Brings to a Grammar Debate, by Horia-Nicolai Teodorescu and Diana Trandabăţ. In: Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Springer Berlin, Heidelberg, ISSN 0302-9743, Volume 4629/2007, "Text, Speech and Dialogue", pp. 286–293.


== External links ==

Allen and Greenough's New Latin Grammar, §282
Audio illustrations at AmericanRhetoric.com
Appositives at chompchomp.com
Apposition and double subject in Romanian – a controversial issue in * Sounds of the Romanian Language
Purdue OWL: Appositives
Appositions Versus Double Subject Sentences – What Information the Speech Analysis Brings to a Grammar Debate

Haya Al Shuaibi  (Arabic: هيا الشعيبي; born 2 January 1981  ) is a Kuwaiti comedian actress.


== Personal life ==
She married twice, and has 3 children in total. She has a son by the first husband, and a son and a daughter to the second husband.


== References ==

The First (East Prussian) Grenadier Regiment "Crown Prince" (German: Grenadier-Regiment Kronprinz (1. Ostpreußisches) Nr. 1) was an infantry regiment of Brandenburg-Prussia, and later the Kingdom of Prussia and German Empire. It was also known as the Old Prussian Infantry Regiment No.2 (German: Altpreußische Infanterieregiment No. 2) as well as the 1st East Prussian Infantry Regiment (German: 1. Infanterie-Regiment (1. Ostpreußisches)).


== 17th century ==
The regiment was established on December 20th 1655 in Pomerania and Neumark by Bogislaw von Schwerin at the order of Elector Friedrich Wilhelm and later took part in the 1656 Battle of Warsaw. The regiment then was quartered in East Prussia (Rastenburg and Gerdauen) in 1657. The regiment then fought against the Swedes in the 1674-1679 Nordic War. As a part of the Reichsarmee of the Holy Roman Emperor the regiment fought at the 1697 Battle of Zenta during the Great Turkish War.


== 18th century ==
The regiment took part in the War of Spanish Succession, Polish Succession, First and Second Silesian Wars, and the Seven Years’ War, and was present at the battles of Hohenfriedberg(1745), Groß-Jägersdorf(1757), Zorndorf(1759), Kay(1759), Kunersdorf(1759), Torgau(1760), and Reichenbach(1762).


== 19th century ==
By 1806, the Regiment was designated Nr.2 under the command of Ernst von Rüchel.
Following the defeat at the Battle of Jena in 1806, Prussia was forced to reorganize and downsize its army. Six of the remaining infantry regiments were chosen to be reformed, and were each given a light infantry battalion to complete them. The No.2 with its new 3rd battalion became the 1st East Prussian Infantry Regiment. The new army was organized into six peace-time brigades, and the 1st East Prussian Infantry Regiment was put into the East Prussian Brigade.
When Napoleon invaded Russia in 1812 there were 14,000 Prussian infantry attached to the auxiliary corps of the Grand Army. The six regiments were assembled from assorted battalions of multiple Prussian army regiments. The No.1 infantry regiment of the Prussian forces in Russia was made up of the 2nd battalion/1st East Prussian Regiment, the 1st Battalion/2nd East Prussian Regiment, and the Fusilier battalion of the 1st East Prussian regiment. Unlike most of Napoleon's army the Prussian forces returned home mostly unharmed, saved by the Convention of Tauroggen.
In 1813, with the start of the war of the 6th coalition, and Prussia mobilized its army for war. During the first battle of the campaign the 1st East Prussian Regiment had just returned from combat in Russia, and had two of its battalions (2nd battalion and fusilier battalion) in the "1st Combined Infantry Regiment". At Lützen they were on the left flank under Generalmajor von Hünerbein, but were driven back with the rest of the army.
After Lützen the 1st East Prussian Infantry battalions were reunited in Generallieutenant  von Yorck's Korps. They were within Yorck's right wing as part of Oberst von Zielinsky's Infantry brigade. The regiment was in the center of the Prussian line, and was mauled by the from the artillery barrage of the Grand Battery. In the successive French assault, the regiment was in the thick of the fighting for the entire day, but was beaten back from the village of Bautzen. 
During the brief truce that followed the Battle of Bautzen, the First East Prussian Regiment was placed under the command of  Duke Carl of Mecklenburg, still within Yorck's Korps. They saw heavy fighting at the Combat of Goldberg where the East Prussian Infantry were briefly surrounded by French cavalry. After being rescued by the Mecklenburg-Strelitz Hussars, Mecklenburg personally led a counterattack of the Regiment's 2nd battalion, and buying time for the rest of his brigade to withdraw and reorganize. Mecklenburg's brigade again distinguished itself at the Battle of Katzbach, in which it held off strong assaults by the French Army.
The Regiment again saw heavy combat at the Battle of Wartenburg, as Mecklenburg's brigade conducted a flanking maneuver around General Bertrand's flank. The brigade was able to succeed in this maneuver, after forcing a group of Württemburgers out of Bleddin by 2pm. By turning Bertrand's flank, the French were forced to withdraw and the stage was set for the Battle of Leipzig. 
During the Battle of Leipzig, the regiment was positioned on the allied right flank, and was ordered forward on the first day of fighting to take the city of Möckern. The village was heavily fortified, and had a manor, palace, walled gardens, and low walls. Each position was turned into a fortress with the walls being loop-holed for covered fire by the French. The ground to the west of the position was too wooded and swampy for artillery. The bloody street fighting took a heavy toll on both sides, and the battle hung in the balance until Prussian cavalry charged and secured the field. For the next three days of the battle, the regiment stayed on the right flank and pushed to try to encircle Napoleon's forces, even helping to secure the village of Leipzig itself.
As a result of the actions the 1. East Prussian Infantry, and indeed the actions of the entire brigade, Duke Carl was awarded the Iron Cross. In addition to this, as Regiment-Chef of the 1. East Prussian Infantry, he was granted the now rare honor of having his name affixed to the Regiment's official designation. On 21 October, 1813, the Regiment was officially designated  1. Ostpreußisches Infanterie-Regiment Prinz Carl von Mecklenburg-Strelitz. The unit continued to see action through 1814 and the conclusion of the War of the Sixth Coalition.
Throughout the war, the regiment's grenadier companies had largely fought as part of a separate Grenadier Battalion within Yorck's vanguard alongside the Grenadier companies of the 3. East Prussian Infantry Regiment. At the conclusion of the war, these grenadier companies were fully detached and formed into a new regiment, The 1st (Emperor Alexander) Guards Grenadiers.  
In 1849, the Regiment was briefly stationed in Danzig, but in 1855 it returned to Königsberg to the newly built Kronprinz Defence Barracks. In 1860, a new commander was appointed to the regiment: the future Frederick III. Under his command, the regiment saw significant action in both the Austro-Prussian War as well as the Franco-Prussian War. It was during this time that the regiment began using the moniker "Kronprinz" as Frederick was the Crown Prince of Prussia.
Upon the death of Frederick in 1888, the regiment's name was again changed, this time to Grenadier Regiment King Frederick III (1st East Prussian) No. 1. This change did not last, however, as the regiment once again became the home to Prussia's Crown Prince in 1900. Kaiser Wilhelm II  reverted the Regiment's moniker to Kronprinz on 6 May, 1900 stating
"I wish to once again bestow upon the Grenadier Regiment King Friedrich III (1st East Prussian) No. 1 the name "Grenadier Regiment Crown Prince (1st East Prussian) No. 1," which it carried with distinction in the wars of 1866 and 1870/71. This is being done today, on the occasion of appointing my son, His Imperial and Royal Highness the Crown Prince, as an honorary member (à la suite) of the regiment.
At the same time, I decree that the regiment shall wear the Guard Eagle without a star on their helmets and adorn their collars and sleeve patches as follows: a. Officers shall wear the embroidery that was previously worn when it was known as the Regiment von Kanitz. b. Enlisted men shall wear white braids.
I have the utmost confidence that the regiment will draw renewed inspiration from this special mark of my royal favor, and will continue to serve me, my house, and the Fatherland with the same loyalty and dedication it has demonstrated throughout its nearly 250-year history."
– Berlin, May 6, 1900.


== 20th century ==
The regiment was part of the  1st Division in World War One fighting on the Eastern Front at The Battle of Tannenberg. And was finally demobilized in 1918. Even so, the traditions of the regiment were inheirited by several units of the new Reichswehr.


== See also ==
List of Imperial German infantry regiments


== References ==

1st (1st East Prussian) Grenadiers at [1]

Sri Padhmaraja Seenivasagam (1918–4 July 1975), also known by his initials SP, was a three-term MP in Malaysia who served as leader of the People's Progressive Party. 
Along with his brother Dharma Raja (DR), SP Seenivasagam was known as a formidable lawyer and parliamentarian in the formative years of Malaya after independence.
He led the PPP to a sweeping win in the Ipoh municipal council elections in 1962, becoming the council's president. At this time the PPP held sway in Ipoh, while the Socialist Front was dominant in George Town and Malacca. However the federal government led by Umno then banned local council elections.
Following the May 13 racial riots and the death of his brother in 1969, SP made the decision to bring PPP into the ruling Barisan Nasional coalition. He lost his parliamentary and state seats in 1974 when he contested under the BN banner. He was then appointed to the Dewan Negara in 1975 but died three months later.


== Early life ==
SP Seenivasagam was born in Ipoh in 1918 and attended the Anderson School. He studied law at the Middle Temple, London, before the outbreak of the second World War. After the war he began his career as advocate and solicitor in 1949, working at the family firm S Seenivasagam & Sons.


== Political career ==
In the 1959 elections, he contested and won the Menglembu parliamentary seat. He garnered 14,338 votes, comfortably defeating rivals from the Alliance (Wong Kok Weng) and Socialist Front (Idham Khatib) with a majority of 8,046 votes. He also won the Kuala Pari seat in the Perak state assembly. He was to win both seats on three consecutive occasions holding them from 1959 to 1974.
While in the opposition, the Seenivasagam brothers led the PPP to form the short-lived Malaysian Solidarity Council (MSC) in 1965 comprising multi-racial parties like the People's Action Party and the United Democratic Party. Their contemporary Syed Husin Ali said that while the brothers were in the progressive camp, they were often seen as the voice of non-Malay perspectives.
The 1969 racial riots paralysed the nation and Parliament was suspended for 17 months. This eventually led SP to make the decision to bring the PPP into the newly formed Barisan Nasional coalition.
Both SP and the PPP were punished heavily for this in the 1974 elections. The party was almost wiped out and SP suffered a big defeat in Menglembu at the hands of DAP's Fan Yew Teng. He also lost his Kuala Pari state seat to Lim Nyit Sin of DAP. 
On 14 April 1975, he was sworn in as a member of the Dewan Negara.


== Legal cases ==
In 1952, Seenivasagam defended a young Chinese girl named Lee Meng who was arrested for alleged militant communist activities during the Emergency.
Lee was captured by the British Malayan police force in Ipoh in July 1952 and tried for having a hand grenade in her possession.
She was sentenced to death for her responsibility in issuing orders for several murders, but the case brought the brothers significant attention.
In 1965, his brother DR made an allegation of corruption against then education minister Abdul Rahman Talib in Parliament, and repeated it in front of a huge crowd, including Rahman, at the Chinese Assembly Hall. Rahman sued DR for defamation, with SP representing DR. Rahman lost the case and resigned as minister.
In 1971 he represented DAP's then Kampar MP Fan Yew Teng in a sedition appeal over a conviction for publishing an offensive article by then Penang DAP chairman Dr Ooi Kee Siak in the party’s newsletter The Rocket. SP successfully argued the appeal for Fan on the grounds of technicality and a retrial was ordered. Ironically it was Fan who challenged and defeated SP for his Menglembu seat in the 1974 elections.


== Election results ==


== Honours ==
Seenivasagam was awarded Paduka Mahkota Perak of the Order of the Perak State Crown in 1963 from Sultan Idris of Perak. In 1965 he was awarded the Dato Paduka Mahkota Perak, and in 1972 the Sultan elevated him to the title of Datuk Seri.

 Perak
 Knight Grand Commander of the Order of the Perak State Crown (SPMP) – Dato' Seri (1972)
 Knight Commander of the Order of the Perak State Crown (DPMP) – Dato' (1965)
 Commander of the Order of the Perak State Crown (1963)


== Death ==
On July 4, 1975, he died of heart failure at his official residence. He was survived by his wife Puan Seri Danapakia Devi, who died in 2006.
Just prior to his death, the Ipoh Town Council in June 1975 proposed to rename Hugh Low Street and Belfield Street after DR and SP, but after some objections, he withdrew his consent.
Today, a road formerly known as Clayton Road, near Saint Michael’s Institution in Ipoh, has been renamed Jalan SP Seenivasagam in his honour.


== References ==

"Remembering the People's Progressive Party of Malaya". The Star. 29 August 2023.
"MyPPP – High-riding party of 1950s comes sliding down". The Star. 26 April 2018.
"MyPPP - About". www.ppphq.online.

The 2021 FIBA U18 Women's European Challengers were international basketball competitions which took place from 27 July to 1 August 2021, replacing the cancelled 2021 FIBA U18 Women's European Championship.


== History ==
The 2020 edition of FIBA U18 Women's European Championship was to be held in Heraklion, Greece but was postponed to 2021 due to COVID-19 pandemic. 
Since the pandemic continued in 2021, the FIBA Europe decided to hold alternative format of competition to replace traditional format of U18 Women's European Championship where 16 or more teams gather in one place.


== Structure ==
The events are to be played on a voluntary participation basis, with promotion/relegation to be frozen across Divisions A, B and C.
The Top 18 ranked teams (16 currently in Division A, plus two additional teams by 2019 ranking in respective category) to play three tournaments of six teams each (Groups A, B and C).
All other registered teams, ranked 19 and lower, to play in tournaments of up to six teams each (Group D).
One tournament of up to six teams to be created with the lowest-ranked teams to accommodate Division C and Small Countries (Group F).
All tournaments to be played in Round Robin format, with groups to be created by "serpentine" style allocation, taking the hosting situation into consideration.


== Participating teams ==


== Top-18 Challengers ==


=== Group A ===
The Group A tournament was played in Riga, Latvia.


=== Group B ===
The Group B tournament was played in Klatovy, Czech Republic.


=== Group C ===
The Group C tournament was played in Heraklion, Greece.


== 19–24 Challenger ==


=== Group D ===
The Group D tournament was played in Sofia, Bulgaria.


== 25–28 Challenger ==


=== Group F ===
The Group F tournament was played in Andorra la Vella, Andorra. After the first round, all four teams advanced to the playoffs.


==== Group phase ====


==== Playoffs ====

Source: FIBA


===== 25th–28th place semifinals =====


===== 27th place match =====


===== 25th place match =====


==== Final standings ====


== See also ==
2021 FIBA U20 European Challengers
2021 FIBA U18 European Challengers
2021 FIBA U16 European Challengers
2021 FIBA U20 Women's European Challengers
2021 FIBA U16 Women's European Challengers


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Competition schedule

In the United States, Law Enforcement Assisted Diversion (LEAD) is a pre-booking diversion model that provides police with an alternative to criminal prosecution in cases involving low-level crimes related to drug use, mental health issues, and poverty. The multi-agency approach allows police officers to refer individuals to behavioral health services rather than arrest them. The model was developed in Seattle, Washington, where a pilot program was launched in 2011. LEAD programs have since been adopted nationally in the US.


== Philosophy, rationale and objectives ==
LEAD takes a harm reduction approach; in substance use cases, abstinence is not required. The primary goal is to reduce the harms caused by repeated interactions with the criminal justice system (CJS). Nearly a quarter of the over two million people incarcerated in the US are there for drug-related crimes, and substance use disorders (SUD) are more prevalent in the prison population than in the general public. Those with SUDs are at significantly greater risk of overdose death after involvement with the CJS. Additional goals include reducing reliance on the CJS, and improving working relationships between police and community-based service providers.


== History ==
In October 2011, LEAD was launched in Seattle as a four-year pilot program, with private foundation funding of $950,000 a year. The multi-agency collaboration included the Seattle Police Department, the King County Sheriff’s Office, the King County Prosecutor, the Seattle City Attorney, the Washington State Department of Corrections, Evergreen Treatment Services, the Washington American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), and the Public Defender Association’s Racial Disparity Project. Rollout began in the drug-troubled Belltown neighborhood, with hand-picked participants: low-level drug dealers, addicts and prostitutes who had been repeatedly arrested. Individualized programs offered services including drug treatment, housing assistance, education, and microloans for business start-ups. The program proved successful and became LEAD Seattle/King County. 


== Implementation ==
Police officers use their discretion to refer an individual arrested for minor offences to a case manager who assesses the client and creates a personalized intervention plan.


== Efficacy ==
Participants in the Seattle/King County LEAD program were less likely to be arrested and face felony charges, compared to those charged with similar crimes. Improvements in employment, housing, financial security, relationships with police and quality of life were noted.


== References ==

Eutachyptera is a monotypic moth genus in the family Lasiocampidae. The genus was erected by William Barnes and James Halliday McDunnough in 1912. Its single species, Eutachyptera psidii, was first described by Sallé in 1857. It is found in Mexico.  


== Behaviour ==
The caterpillars feed on the leaves of guava (Psidium sp.) and oak.  They live communally in large silken nests, which can extend to 50 centimetres (20 in) or more in length.  They remain in the nests by day and leave at night to feed, laying a trail of pheromones to help them and their nest-mates navigate to and from feeding areas.
Unusually among caterpillars, E. psidii larvae can remain active for as long as 18 days with no food, which they may have to do when their host trees lose their leaves in winter.


== Use of larvae and silk ==
The larvae are among the caterpillars traded and eaten in Mexico.
The silk nests were used by the Aztecs, Mixtecs and Zapotecs to make a paper-like fabric, which was a commercial item at the time of Moctezuma.  Later, the Mixtec and other communities in Oaxaca extracted the silk fibres from the nests and wove them into sashes. This practise had ceased by 1997.


== Synonyms ==
The US National Center for Biotechnology Information lists the following synonyms for E. psidii:

Bombyx psidii
Gloveria psidii
Lasiocampa psidii
Metanastria psidii
Tachyptera psidii


== External links ==

Nell (born 1975) is an Australian artist working across performance, installation, video, painting and sculpture. In 2013, she won the University of Queensland Self-Portrait Award. In 2017, she was inducted into the Maitland City Hall of Fame in the category of The Arts.
Nell lives and works in Sydney.


== Biography ==
Nell was born in 1975 in Maitland, New South Wales. Her wife is the celebrity chef Kylie Kwong. She practises Buddhist philosophy.
Nell studied under Lindy Lee at Sydney College of the Arts, the University of Sydney (1995), with Joan Jonas and John Baldessari at the University of California Los Angeles (1996) and with Annette Messager at the École Nationale Supérieure des Beaux-Arts, Paris (2006).


== Career ==
Nell's work often engages with binaries – life and death, happiness and sadness, dark and light. She draws on imagery from rock 'n roll, and employs a lexicon of repeated motifs in her work including smiley faces, lightning bolts, clouds, rain drops, suns, and faces.
Nell's work has been included in over 200 exhibitions in Australia and abroad. In 1999, early in her exhibiting career, her work was selected for Primavera, an exhibition of notable Australian contemporary artists under 35 years old, at the Museum of Contemporary Art Australia (MCA) in Sydney.
Around this time she also staged exhibitions at Galerie Y-Burg, Vrieshuis Amerika, Amsterdam (1998), and with the Indian artist Neha Choksi at 4A Centre for Contemporary Asian Art, Sydney (1999) and in Byculla, Mumbai (2000). Nell's first institutional exhibition was mounted at the Art Gallery of New South Wales in 2001.
In 2011, Nell was commissioned by the Museum of Old and New Art, Hobart, to produce the exhibition Let There Be Robe. Two performance works that took place in multiple iterations and venues were also commissioned, Chanting to Amps (2012) and It's a Long Way to the Top (2011, 2012).
In 2012, Jean-Hubert Martin curated Nell's work into the exhibition Theatre of the World at MONA in Hobart, in the same year staging her homecoming show, Home Town Girl Has Wet Dream at Maitland Regional Art Gallery. In 2013, Martin put on another exhibition of her work at La Maison Rouge, Paris.
Nell has collaborated with Australian fashion designers Romance Was Born. In 2014, the collaboration was exhibited at the National Gallery of Victoria in 2011-12 released through the label as The Oracle collection. This collection and collaboration was named "Masterpiece of Australian Fashion" for the first decade of this century by The Monthly magazine.
Nell often works outside the gallery, staging performances and installations in a variety of settings. In 2014, she presented work at Glastonbury Festival of Contemporary Performing Arts in England, and in 2015 at Performance Space, Sydney as part of their Day for Night festival of queer performance.
Nell was included in the 2016 Adelaide Biennial of Australian Art at the Art Gallery of South Australia with a major installation titled The Wake. The Wake was subsequently acquired by the Art Gallery of South Australia. The Wake is the subject of a book, with text by Julie Ewington. Also in 2016, Shepparton Art Museum hosted an eponymously titled survey exhibition of Nell's works.
Nell's work was included in the 25th anniversary edition of the Primavera exhibition in late 2016, first at the MCA in Sydney and afterwards touring regional centres.
In 2017, Nell was commissioned by the National Gallery of Victoria in Melbourne to make an outdoor sculpture to be permanently installed in their sculpture garden. Her work was included in the inaugural The National, a biennale of New Australian Art, at the Museum of Contemporary Art in Sydney. A solo exhibition, WORDS + CROSSES, was held at Ramp Gallery, Waikato Institute of Technology  in Hamilton, New Zealand.
In 2018 she mounted a solo exhibition at the Walkway Art Gallery in Bordertown, South Australia.
In 2019, a solo exhibition featuring paintings, sculptures and  brooches made in collaboration with New Zealand jeweller Neil Adcock  was staged at the STATION gallery in Carriageworks as part of Sydney Contemporary art fair.


== Awards and residencies ==
Nell has undertaken residencies at the British Academy of Arts in Rome (2003), in Beijing with Red Gate Gallery (2005), at the Australian National University, Canberra (2007) and Artspace Sydney (2016).
In 2002, she travelled to Ravenna, Italy, on The Freedman Foundation Travelling Scholarship for Emerging Artists. 
In 2001 Nell won the People's Choice Award in the Woollahra Small Sculpture Prize. In 2005, 2011 and 2013 she was Finalist in the Blake Prize. 
Nell won the 2013 University of Queensland Self-Portrait Award for a video performance work.
In 2017 Nell was inducted into the Maitland City Hall of Fame in the category of The Arts alongside previous inductees John Bell AO OBE and Ruth Cracknell AM.
Since 2017, she has been a resident at the Carriageworks studios in Redfern, Sydney. Her great-grandfather worked at the Eveleigh railyards at the same location as a boilermaker, and a great uncle as a draughtsman there.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website
Nell artist profile Roslyn Oxley9

Altair Peak, at 11,825 feet (3,604 m) above sea level is the seventh highest peak in the Pioneer Mountains of Idaho, United States. The peak is located in Salmon-Challis National Forest and Custer County. It is the 25th highest peak in Idaho and about 1 mi (1.6 km) northeast of Standhope Peak and 0.85 mi (1.37 km) southwest of Pyramid Peak.


== Climate ==

The Bear Canyon SNOTEL is at the southern base of Altair Peak.


== See also ==


== References ==

Rognan is a village and the administrative centre of Saltdal Municipality in Nordland county, Norway. The village is located at the head of the Saltdal Fjord (the innermost part of the Skjerstad Fjord). It is located about 15 kilometres (9.3 mi) north of the village of Røkland.
The 2.54-square-kilometre (630-acre) village has a population (2023) of 2,600 and a population density of 1,024 inhabitants per square kilometre (2,650/sq mi).


== Economy ==

Local industry includes the optical cable factory of Nexans Norway and Hepro. The Nordland Line railway and the European route E6 highway both pass through the village. Rognan Station is the local railway station. Rognan Airport only serves general aviation. Saltdal Church is located in this village.
Rognan gained national attention through a 2006 reality documentary television series called "Alt For Rognan" (Everything for Rognan).  The show aired on TV2, and followed a group of ten local men and their quest to create a live show on the cabaret and revue theatre Chat Noir.


== Notable people ==


== Sister cities ==
Rognan is twinned with the following cities:

 Niš, Serbia


== References ==


== See also ==
Prison camps in North Norway during World War Two

Sir Kenneth Owen Roberts-Wray  (1899–1983) was a British lawyer and civil servant. An authority on Commonwealth and colonial law, he was Legal Adviser to the Commonwealth Relations Office (Dominions Office until 1947) and the Colonial Office from 1945 to 1960.


== Biography ==

Born 6 June 1899, Kenneth Roberts-Wray was the son of Captain Thomas Henry Roberts-Wray,  sometime aide-de-camp to King George V, and of Florence Grace Roberts-Wray. He was educated at University Tutorial College, Royal Military Academy, Woolwich, and Merton College, Oxford, where he took first-class honours in jurisprudence.
During the First World War, Roberts-Wray was commissioned into the Royal Artillery as a second lieutenant in 1918, promoted to lieutenant in 1919, and retired from the army because of wounds in 1920. He was called to the bar in 1924, receiving the Certificate of Honour at the bar examinations. Joining the Civil Service in 1926, he joined the Ministry of Health as a Professional Legal Clerk, before being promoted Assistant Chief Clerk in 1929.
He transferred to the Dominions Office and the Colonial Office in 1931 as Second Assistant Legal Adviser, and was promoted to Assistant Legal Adviser in 1943, and Legal Adviser in 1945. During his tenure, he took part in numerous pre-independence constitutional conferences as legal adviser, the last one being the constitutional conference leading to the independence of Nigeria in 1960.
In retirement, Roberts-Wray was the author of Commonwealth and Colonial Law (Stevens, 1966), a seminal work in that area. From January to June 1969, he served as Acting Attorney-General of Gibraltar. He died on 29 August 1983.


== Family ==
Roberts-Wray firstly married in 1927 Joan Tremayne Waring (died 1961); they had three sons. After he death, he married secondly, in 1965, Lady (Mary Howard) Williams, widow of Sir Ernest Williams.


== Honours ==
Roberts-Wray was appointed a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George in 1946, promoted Knight Commander in 1949, and Knight Grand Cross in 1960. In 1959, he was appointed a Queen's Counsel. He received an honorary DCL from the University of Oxford in 1967 and an honorary LLD from the University of Birmingham in 1968.


== References ==

G. J. Zellick, "Sir Kenneth Roberts-Wray", The Times, 3 September 1983, p. 8
Sir James McPetrie, "Sir Kenneth Roberts-Wray", The Times, 14 September 1983, p. 12.
Roberts-Wray, Sir Kenneth Owen, (6 June 1899–29 Aug. 1983), QC 1959; Legal Adviser, Commonwealth Relations Office (Dominions Office until 1947) and Colonial Office, 1945–60, retired

Disney Interactive is an American video game and internet company that oversees various websites and interactive media owned by the Walt Disney Company.


== History ==


=== 1995–1996: Formation and beginnings ===

In December 1994, Disney announced that it was establishing a new division dedicated to publishing computer and video game console software, called Disney Interactive. The initial staff consisted of 200 newly hired employees. The company was formally established in mid-1995. On August 23, 1995, Disney Interactive formed Disney Online.


=== 1997–2007: Buena Vista Internet Group ===
Disney purchased a one-third share of Starwave on April 3, 1997, for $100 million. In January 1998, Disney registered go.com. Exercising its options, Disney purchased the outstanding shares of Starwave from Paul Allen in April 1998.  In June 1998, Disney purchased 43% ownership of Infoseek in exchange for Starwave and $70 million.  Infoseek and Disney Online joint ventured in developing the Go Network, an internet portal.  With Disney's purchase of the remainder of Infoseek in July 1999, the Go Network, Infoseek, the Disney Catalog, Disney Online (Disney.com and DisneyStore.com), ABC News Internet Ventures and ESPN Internet Ventures and Buena Vista Internet Group are merged into the Go.com company.
In August 1996, BVIG took a controlling in interest in toysmart.com with three directors on the board. Toysmart would be granted marketing support including free advertising on BVIG websites like family.com. After an attempted round of financing, Toysmart.com shut down in May 2000.
In June 1999, the Disney Internet Guide was abandoned. The Go.com portal was shut down in 2001 at a cost of $878 million in charges.
In 2004, Disney re-activated the Starwave identity as Starwave Mobile, which publishes casual games for mobile phones for non-Disney brands with in Disney conglomerate or from third party.
It acquired Living Mobile, a German mobile game developer and publisher in November 2005.
It acquired Enorbus Technologies in 2007 for around $20 million.


=== 2008–2012: Disney Interactive Media Group ===
On June 5, 2008, Disney Interactive Studios and the Walt Disney Internet Group merged into a single business unit, now known as the Disney Interactive Media Group (DIMG). In 2009, DIMG's Disney Online unit purchased multiple websites from Kaboose.
In July 2010, Disney Interactive purchased Playdom for $563.2 million and Tapulous for its mobile division. In October 2010, two co-presidents were named for DIMG, John Pleasants and James Pitaro, with orders to make the company profitable.
In January 2011, DIMG closed Propaganda Games and laid off 200 employees later in the month. The dual presidents placed the game studios of Blackrock, Junction Point, Avalanche, Wideload and Gamestar under game development chief Alex Seropian while Club Penguin co-creator Lane Merrifield was assigned to games for kids and families within a new publishing unit to handle marketing and production. On February 18, DIMG purchased Togetherville, a pre-teen social network. Also in February, DIMG purchased Finland-based Rocket Pack, a game development company with a plugin free game development system. In November, DIMG purchased Babble Media Inc.
In October 2011, it acquired Indiagames for between $80 million and $100 million.
In April 2012, DIMG announced three web series targeted towards mothers: "Moms of", "That's Fresh", and "Thinking Up." By October, DIMG had 15 consecutive quarters of losses totaling some $977 million. Following conflicts with Pleasants, Merrifield resigned from the company. DIMG also in October announced "Toy Box", a cross platform gaming initiative where Pixar and Disney characters will interact from a console game to multiple mobile and online applications.


=== 2012–2018: Disney Interactive ===
In 2012, Disney Interactive Media Group shortened its name to Disney Interactive (DI).
In January 2013, Disney Interactive's Avalanche Software unveiled the Toy Box cross platform game as Disney Infinity, based on Toy Story 3: The Video Game's "Toy Box" mode crossed with a toy line. Also in January, Disney Interactive announced the closure of Junction Point Studios.
In October 2013, Disney announced that its Interactive division had a profit of $16 million for its fourth quarter, based partly on sales of Disney Infinity and uniting both halves of the division under one president.
In March 2014, Disney Interactive announced it was laying off 700 people in order to combine its two-game units, mobile and social, due to sagging popularity of Facebook games, and closing some Disney Online sites. The company stated that it would place less emphasis on advertising and instead focus on sponsorships for Disney Online and licensed game development. Certain segments of the business, such as a mobile application in Japan and the Disney Infinity franchise, remained profitable.
Disney Interactive was merged with Disney Consumer Products on June 29, 2015, forming a new segment and division known as "Disney Consumer Products and Interactive Media", with Disney Interactive as a direct unit. In December 2015, Maker Studios was placed under the control of Disney Interactive with the appointment of Maker's executive vice president Courtney Holt, reporting to Jimmy Pitaro, president of Disney Interactive.
With a lack of growth in toy-to-game market and increasing developmental costs, in May 2016, Disney Interactive discontinued Disney Infinity and closed down Avalanche Software. The company additionally ceased all self-publishing efforts. The company reported a $147 million earnings impact for ending its console gaming business.
In September 2018, Disney confirmed the imminent discontinuation of Club Penguin Island in a letter sent to its Disney Online Studios team in Kelowna, as well as the layoffs of most employees in said studio.
In November 2018, Disney reached an agreement with Jam City to assume operation of its Glendale-based Disney Interactive Studios. As part of the deal, Jam City acquired Emoji Blitz and development rights for future games based on Pixar and Walt Disney Animation Studios franchises. Employees at the studio were offered positions with Jam City to continue working on the Disney titles.


=== 2018–2026: Disney Electronic Content ===
Disney Electronic Content would take over publishing duties of various Disney-branded video games not licensed to other companies. Disney later revived its gaming division in 2023 as Disney Games, which later became Disney & Pixar Games in 2026 to focus on both Disney and Pixar properties. Their first release was Disney Classic Games: Aladdin and The Lion King on October 29, 2019 for Microsoft Windows, Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, a collection of tie-in video games based on both films developed by Digital Eclipse. A re-release featuring The Jungle Book games and the SNES version of Aladdin, titled Disney Classic Games Collection was released on November 23, 2021.
Disney Electronic Content released  Zombies Ate My Neighbors and Ghoul Patrol on June 29, 2021. Disney Illusion Island, a platform game developed by Dlala Studios, was released for Nintendo Switch on July 28, 2023 and for Windows, PlayStation 5, and Xbox Series X/S on May 30, 2025.


=== 2026–present: Recent reorganization ===
On August 4, 2026, Disney CEO Josh D'Amaro announced the plan to transfer its parent organization, Disney Consumer Products, from Disney Experiences to Disney Entertainment. On August 13, 2026, Disney revealed that the division's gaming brands, Disney & Pixar Games and Marvel Games, would shift to Disney Entertainment and merge with Lucasfilm Games and 20th Century Games to forum Disney Games Group.


== Units ==
Rocket Pack
StudioEX
Gamestar
Disney Online Studios
Disney Online
Disney Mobile
Disney Digital Network (formerly Maker Studios), multi-network content for YouTube.


=== Disney Online ===

Disney Online is a division of Disney Interactive that operates most of Disney's online portfolio.
On August 23, 1995, Disney Interactive formed Disney Online unit with the naming of Jake Winebaum as president of Disney Online. On November 19, 1996, the opening of DisneyStore.com was open under Disney Online business unit.  The family.com website is launched on December 9, 1996.
Disney announced on April 18, 1997 that it will purchase Starwave's Family Planet Web site and merge it with Family.com.  The Disney Daily Blast (dailyblast.com) web site officially launched on April 23 under a subscription plan and daily content targeted to younger viewers with Microsoft Network marketing and distributing for an exclusive 10-month period.
In July 1998, Disney Online announced dig.com, Disney Internet Guide, a child friendly web directory which launched in June 1998 and closed one year later in June to focus on Infoseek/Go Network.
In late 2007, DIMG purchased IParenting Media's websites. Disney sold movies.com to Fandango in June 2008. Disney Online purchased in 2008 Take 180 from Chris Williams, who stays on until April 2012 as vice president and general manager of Disney Online Originals, which has Take 180 as creative hub. In 2009, DIMG's Disney Online unit purchased from Kaboose multiple websites including: Kaboose.com, Babyzone.com, AmazingMoms.com, Funschool.com and Zeeks.com, and place them into its Disney Family Network. Disney.com purchased Kerpoof in February 2009.
In November 2011, DIMG purchased Babble Media Inc. to add it to the Mom and Family Portfolio. In March 2014, Disney Interactive announced it was laying off 700 people, or one-fourth of its staff as DI closed smaller Disney Online sites including BabyZone.com and Spoonful.com. They said will focus less on advertising and more on sponsorships for Disney Online to fit the experience Disney wishes to offer.


==== Online units ====
disney.com
Disney Family Network websites - also called Mom and Family Portfolio
Family.Disney.com
Babble.com, mother bloggers site
DigiSynd, social media marketing


== References ==


== External links ==

Disney.com
Disney Family Network websites
Spoonful.com
Babyzone.com

Okuda was a Japanese restaurant in New York City. The restaurant had received a Michelin star.


== See also ==
List of defunct restaurants of the United States
List of Japanese restaurants
List of Michelin-starred restaurants in New York City


== References ==

Gengasaurus is an extinct genus of ophthalmosaurid ichthyosaur from the Jurassic. The type and only species, Gengasaurus nicosiai, was named in 2017, after the locality of Genga, Marche. It lived in Italy about 152 million years ago.


== History ==
The near complete holotype was discovered in 1976 in the Late Jurassic (Tithonian) Calcari ad aptici e Saccocoma Formation at Camponocecchio and it was described in 1980 and 2000  as the "Genga ichthyosaur" before it was named and described in 2016 - this paper was eventually published in 2017. The holotype is now housed at the Spaelaeo-Palaeontologic Museum in Genga.


== Phylogeny ==
The following cladogram shows a possible phylogenetic position of Gengasaurus in Ophthalmosauridae according to the analysis performed by Zverkov and Jacobs (2020).


== References ==

Sieglinde Hofmann (born 14 March 1945) was a German militant and member of both the Socialist Patients' Collective and the Red Army Faction.


== Biography ==
As a child Hofmann attended a Catholic girls' school and went on to train to become a nurse and then a social worker. She was believed to have joined the Red Army Faction (as part of their second generation) in 1976 after having first joined the SPK and was suspected of involvement in the killing of banker Jürgen Ponto. It is now known that it was actually the terrorists Susanne Albrecht, Brigitte Mohnhaupt and Christian Klar who took part in the Ponto assassination.
Hofmann was among the group of terrorists who took part in the kidnapping of Hanns-Martin Schleyer. She walked along the road that Schleyer's convoy was passing pushing a pram laden with guns. She pushed the pram out into the middle of the street to stop the convoy from driving past, and as the cars slowed to a stop, she, along with a group of RAF terrorists, ambushed the cars, murdering Schleyer's driver, his bodyguard and two police officers.
Hofmann, along with Brigitte Mohnhaupt, Peter-Jürgen Boock and Rolf Wagner was arrested on 11 May 1978 in Yugoslavia, but they were all freed and flown to an undisclosed country of their choice. Some, including Hofmann, immediately went back underground. Two years later, however, on 5 May 1980, Hofmann was rearrested in Paris (alongside Ingrid Barabass), following a raid on a RAF safehouse.


== Imprisonment ==
Although initially only charged with involvement in the murder of Ponto and condemned to serve  fifteen years in prison, Hofmann was taken back into custody three days before the end of her sentence in August 1995  to be tried for other offences. The second trial was only possible after a judicial clarification in France.
On 26 September of the same year, Hofmann, then 50 years old, was found guilty of involvement in five cases of murder, and three cases of attempted murder by the Higher Regional Court in Stuttgart, and was sentenced to life imprisonment. Her crimes included her offences against Ponto, and other crimes such as a failed bomb attack on NATO Commander Alexander Meigs Haig, Jr. and the murder/kidnapping of the President of the German Employer's Association, Hanns Martin Schleyer. She was, however, released from prison on 5 May 1999.


== See also ==
Members of the RAF
The Baader-Meinhof Gang


== References ==


== External links ==
Hofmann bio - in German

The Rotary Lombardi Award is an award for college football in the United States. Awarded by the Rotary Club of Houston, Texas annually to the college football player "who best embodies the values and spirit of NFL's legendary coach Vince Lombardi" the Rotary Lombardi Award program was created in 1970 shortly after the death of Lombardi. The committee outlined the original criteria for eligibility for the award, which remained in place until this day:


== History ==
Following the death of highly regarded football coach Vince Lombardi in 1970 his widow, Marie, authorized the Rotary Club of Houston to establish the Rotary Lombardi Award. The award began as recognition to only interior line positions that Vince Lombardi played while an undergraduate at Fordham University, offensive and defensive guard, and later expanded to include linebackers and tight ends, with the addition of including non-performance values: leadership, courage, desire, respect for authority, and discipline.
To be considered for the award, players must be an NCAA FBS College Football team member and meet the following qualifications:

Be a down Lineman, end to end, either on offense or defense, setting up no further than ten yards to the left or right of the ball at the time of the snap.
Be a Linebacker on defense, setting up no further than five yards deep from the line of scrimmage.
Must not come out of the offensive backfield and set up on the line of scrimmage as a Blocker or a Receiver or listed in the program as an Offensive Back or Receiver.
Be eligible to participate in the current season.
The voting electorate is made up of the head coaches from all NCAA Division I schools, sports media personnel from across the country, and former winners and finalists of the Lombardi Award. The total number of voters is approximately 500. The Ohio State University holds the record for most Lombardi awards with six. Orlando Pace, the only two-time winner (1995 and 1996), was the most recent offensive lineman to be honored until 2024, when Kelvin Banks, Jr. of the Texas Longhorns took home the award. 
Net proceeds from the award activities are contributed to cancer research, awareness, and treatment, on the stipulation of Marie Lombardi.


=== Expansion of candidates, then retraction ===
In 2017, the presenting Rotary Club expanded the award's eligibility to include all positions. This lasted until 2021, when they  reverted to the original criteria. The winners from 2017 through 2020 are not recognized by the current award committee, although 2020 winner Zaven Collins qualified under the original criteria.


=== Trophy ===
The main part of the trophy is a block of granite, paying homage to Lombardi's college days at Fordham University as an offensive lineman when his offensive line was referred to as the "Seven Blocks of Granite".


== Winners ==

Source:


== See also ==
Outland Trophy, awarded annually to the best interior lineman in college football
Rimington Trophy, awarded annually to the best center in college football
Ted Hendricks Award, awarded annually to the best defensive end in college football
UPI College Football Lineman of the Year


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Cyclopelta siccifolia is a bug in the family Dinidoridae found in South Asia. It is known for its large aggregations on certain species of plants. They have been known to aggregate and damage Erythrina, Sesbania, Pongamia, and Cajanus cajan.
The species has underside paler than upper parts, the scutellum has a small yellow spot and the membrane of the wing is much lighter than the rest of the wing. The most similar species is Cyclopelta obscura. Aggregations of the bug have been noted on Sesbania, Butea, Milletia among others. Where they risk damage to the plants, the recommended practice is to handpick the bugs since they are quite sluggish.


== References ==

Terry Murphy may refer to:

Terry Murphy (broadcaster) (born 1948), American television host and correspondent
Terry Murphy (artist) (born 1956), Australian artist
Terry Murphy (snooker player) (born 1972), Northern Irish snooker player
Terry Murphy (American politician) (born 1942/1943), Republican member of Montana Legislature
Terry Murphy (footballer) (born 1940), English footballer
Terry Murphy (rugby league) (born 1952), Australian former rugby league footballer
Terrence Murphy (Canadian politician) (1926–2008), known as Terry, Canadian lawyer, politician and judge


== See also ==
Terrence Murphy (disambiguation)

Henri I de Lorraine, Duke of Guise, Prince of Joinville, Count of Eu (31 December 1550 – 23 December 1588), sometimes called Le Balafré ('Scarface'), was the eldest son of François, Duke of Guise, and Anna d'Este. His maternal grandparents were Ercole II d'Este, Duke of Ferrara, and Renée of France. Through his maternal grandfather, he was a descendant of Lucrezia Borgia and Pope Alexander VI.
A key figure in the French Wars of Religion, he was one of the namesakes of the War of the Three Henrys. A powerful opponent of the queen mother, Catherine de' Medici, Henri was assassinated by the bodyguards of her son, King Henry III.


== Early life ==
Henri was born on 31 December 1550, the eldest son of François de Lorraine, the duke of Guise, one of the leading magnates of France, and Anna d'Este, daughter of the Duke of Ferrara. In his youth he was friends with Henry III, the future king, and at the behest of Jacques, Duke of Nemours tried to persuade the young prince to run away with him in 1561 to join the arch-Catholic faction, much to the fury of his father and uncle. When he was 12 years old, his father François was assassinated and Henri thus inherited the Duke's titles of the Governor of Champagne and Grand Maître de France in 1563.
The Guise family and Guise (as he will henceforth be referred) craved vengeance against Gaspard II de Coligny, whom they considered responsible for the assassination. As such, he and his uncle Charles, Cardinal of Lorraine would attempt to make a show of force in entering Paris in 1564, but their entry ended with both besieged in their residence and forced to concede. When in 1566 the crown forced Charles at Moulins to make the kiss of peace with Coligny to end their feud, Guise refused to attend. He would also challenge Coligny and Anne de Montmorency to duels, but they rebuffed his attempts.
No longer welcome at court, he and his brother Charles, Duke of Mayenne decided to crusade against the Ottoman Empire in Hungary, serving under Alfonso II d'Este, with a retinue of 350 men. In September 1568 he reached his majority, just as the Guise returned to the centre of French politics with his uncle's readmission to the Privy Council.


== Entry into politics ==
Guise took an active military role in the second and third wars of the French Wars of Religion, fighting at the Battle of Saint-Denis in 1567, the Battle of Jarnac in 1569, and successfully defending Poitiers during a siege by Admiral Coligny. He was wounded at the Battle of Moncontour.
In 1570 the third war of religion was brought to an end with the Peace of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, part of which stipulated a marriage between the Protestant king of Navarre (future king Henry IV) and the King's sister Margaret of Valois as a means of ensuring stability. Around this time Guise began a romance with the King's sister, apparently with pretensions to her hand in marriage, which quickly became known around court. Upon discovering this, Margaret's brothers Charles IX and the duke of Anjou, were furious, assaulting Margaret in anger. While some suggested Guise be punished with assassination, it was settled on banishing him from court for his indiscretions. On 3 October he married Catherine of Cleves, thus assuming the title of Count of Eu from her inheritance.
The August 1572 marriage between the king of Navarre and Margaret necessitated the presence of the majority of the Protestant leadership in Paris. Shortly after the wedding, Coligny, who had made a rare visit to the capital for the occasion, was shot in the shoulder in an attempted assassination. Guise was a chief suspect of having ordered the attempt, due to his long running feud. 
As the situation in Paris deteriorated over the next several days, the royal council planned and executed a targeted elimination of the Protestant leadership in Paris, which would spiral into the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre. During the massacre Guise would oversee the murder of Coligny, and attempted but failed to capture several other targets, but was displeased at the situation descending into a general massacre, shielding fleeing Protestants in his residence.

When the wars of religion subsequently resumed Guise was wounded at the Battle of Dormans, and was thereafter known, like his father, as Le Balafré. With a charismatic and brilliant public reputation, he rose to heroic stature among the militant Catholic population of France as an opponent of the Huguenots.


== Catholic League ==
In 1576 he formed the Catholic League. His rapidly deteriorating relations with the new King, Henry III (formerly the duke of Anjou) created further conflict, known as the War of the Three Henries (1584–1588).

At the death in 1584 of Francis, Duke of Anjou, the king's brother (which left the king of Navarre, the Protestant champion, as heir to the throne), Guise concluded the Treaty of Joinville with Philip II of Spain. This compact declared that the Cardinal de Bourbon should succeed King Henry, in preference to the king of Navarre. Henry now sided with the Catholic League (1585), which made war with great success on the Protestants. Guise sent his cousin, Charles, Duke of Aumale, to lead a rising in Picardy (which could also support the retreat of the Spanish Armada). Alarmed, Henry ordered Guise to remain in Champagne; he defied the king and on 9 May 1588 Guise entered Paris, bringing to a head his ambiguous challenge to royal authority in the Day of the Barricades and forcing King Henry to flee.


== Assassination ==

The League now controlled France; the king was forced to accede to its demands and created Guise Lieutenant-General of France. But Henry refused to be treated as a mere puppet by the League, and decided upon a bold stroke. On 22 December 1588, Guise spent the night with his current mistress Charlotte de Sauve, the most accomplished and notorious member of Catherine de' Medici's group of female spies known as the "Flying Squadron". The following morning at the Château de Blois, Guise was summoned to attend the king, and was at once assassinated by "the Forty-five", the king's bodyguard, as Henry looked on. Guise's brother, Louis II, Cardinal of Guise, was likewise assassinated the next day. The deed aroused such outrage among the remaining relatives and allies of Guise that Henry was forced to take refuge with the king of Navarre. Henry was assassinated the following year by Jacques Clément, an agent of the Catholic League.
According to Baltasar Gracián in A Pocket Mirror for Heroes, it was once said of him to Henry III, "Sire, he does good wholeheartedly: those who do not receive his good influence directly receive it by reflection. When deeds fail him, he resorts to words. There is no wedding he does not enliven, no baptism at which he is not godfather, no funeral he does not attend. He is courteous, humane, generous, the honorer of all and the detractor of none. In a word, he is a king by affection, just as Your Majesty is by law."


== Issue ==
He married on 4 October 1570 in Paris to Catherine of Cleves (1548–1633), Countess of Eu, by whom he had fourteen children:

Charles, Duke of Guise (1571–1640), who succeeded him
Henri (30 June 1572, Paris – 3 August 1574)
Catherine (3 November 1573) (died at birth)
Louis III, Cardinal of Guise (1575–1621), Archbishop of Reims
Charles (1 January 1576, Paris) (died at birth)
Marie (1 June 1577 – 1582)
Claude, Duke of Chevreuse (1578–1657) married Marie de Rohan, daughter of Hercule de Rohan, duc de Montbazon
Catherine (b. 29 May 1579), died young
Christine (21 January 1580) (died at birth)
François (14 May 1581 – 29 September 1582)
Renée (1585 – 13 June 1626, Reims), Abbess of St. Pierre
Jeanne (31 July 1586 – 8 October 1638, Jouarre), Abbess of Jouarre
Louise Marguerite, (1588 – 30 April 1631, Château d'Eu), married on 24 July 1605 François, Prince of Conti
François Alexandre (7 February 1589 – 1 June 1614, Château des Baux-de-Provence), a Knight of the Order of Malta


== In literature and the arts ==


=== Literature ===
The Duke of Guise appears as an archetypal Machiavellian schemer in Christopher Marlowe's play The Massacre at Paris, which was written about 20 years after the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre. The death of the duke is also mentioned, by the ghost of Machiavelli himself, in the opening lines of The Jew of Malta.  He appears (as The Guise) in George Chapman's Bussy D'Ambois and its sequel, The Revenge of Bussy D'Ambois.
John Dryden and Nathaniel Lee wrote The Duke of Guise (1683), based on events during the reign of Henry III.
He appears in the short novel The Princess of Montpensier, by Madame de La Fayette.
He appears in Voltaire's epic poem "La Henriade" (1723).
He is one of the characters in Alexandre Dumas's novel La Reine Margot and its sequels, La Dame de Monsoreau and The Forty-Five Guardsmen. He also appears prominently in Heinrich Mann's novel Young Henry of Navarre (1935).
Stanley Weyman's novel A Gentleman of France includes the Duke of Guise in its tale about the War of the Three Henries.
Ken Follett's 2017 novel A Column of Fire features Henri, Duke of Guise as a prominent character, and explores his involvement with the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre.


=== Film ===
In the 2010 film The Princess of Montpensier, he was portrayed by actor Gaspard Ulliel.
In the 1994 film adaptation of Alexandre Dumas' novel, La Reine Margot, the Duke of Guise was portrayed by actor Miguel Bosé.
Charles le Bargy and André Calmettes directed the 1908 short silent film The Assassination of the Duke of Guise with an original score of the same name by Camille Saint-Saëns.


== Literature ==
Pierre Matthieu, La Guisiade (1589)
Christopher Marlowe, The Massacre at Paris (1593)
George Chapman, The Tragedy of Bussy D'Ambois (1607)
George Chapman, The Revenge of Bussy D'Ambois (1613)
John Dryden & Nathaniel Lee, The Duke of Guise (1683)


== See also ==
House of Guise


== References ==


== Sources ==
Carroll, Stuart (1998). Noble Power During French Wars of Religion: The Guise Affinity and the Catholic Cause in Normandy. Cambridge University Press.
Carroll, Stuart (2011). Martyrs and Murderers:The Guise Family and the Making of Europe. Oxford University Press.
Goyau, Georges (1911). "Guise, House of" . In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 12 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press.
Knecht, Robert (2010). The French Wars of Religion 1559–98. Routledge. ISBN 9781408228197.
Richards, Penny (2016). "Warriors of God: History, Heritage and the Reputation of the Guise". In Munns, Jessica; Richards, Penny; Spangler, Jonathan (eds.). Aspiration, Representation and Memory: The Guise in Europe, 1506–1688. Routledge. pp. 169–182.
Spangler, Jonathan (2016). The Society of Princes: The Lorraine-Guise and the Conservation of Power and Wealth in Seventeenth-Century France. Routledge.
Strage, Mark (1976). Women of Power: The Life and Times of Catherine de' Medici. Harcourt Brace Jovanovich. ISBN 9780151983704.
Sutherland, Nicola (1973). The Massacre of St Bartholomew and the European Conflict 1559–72. Macmillan. ISBN 0064966208.
Thompson, James Westfall (1915). The Wars of Religion in France, 1559–1576. Frederick Ungar Publishing Co.
Wellman, Katherine (2013). Queens and Mistresses of Renaissance France. Yale University Press.


== External links ==
 Media related to Henry I, Duke of Guise at Wikimedia Commons

Luton Bute Street railway station was the first to be built in Luton, England. It was opened by the Luton, Dunstable and Welwyn Junction Railway Company in 1858, which was an extension of the Welwyn and Hertford Railway. The track to Welwyn was completed in 1860 and taken over by the Great Northern the following year.


== History ==
The station was valuable to Luton people not only for passengers but also for facilitating the London market for the town's trade in plaited straw goods. The station, and the line to Welwyn, closed in 1965.
Following closure to passengers in 1965, the station buildings were quickly demolished despite the line remaining open for freight until 1989–1990. The site of the station was used later as a car park for Luton railway station. Throughout the years, various local pressure groups have been supportive of reopening the station as part of a viable branch line between Dunstable and Luton. In the mid-1990s, there was a debate about reopening it, either with the operation of diesel Class 158s or electric Class 319s.
The site has since been redeveloped, as the new Luton Gateway transport interchange on the Luton to Dunstable Busway guided busway system.


== Routes ==


== See also ==
List of closed railway stations in Britain


== References ==


== External links ==
Station history and photos
Luton Borough Council guided busway plans

Dance Classics of Chaka Khan is a compilation album of recordings by American R&B/funk singer Chaka Khan released on the Warner Bros. Records label in Japan in 1999.
As the title suggests, the compilation mainly focuses on the dancefloor-friendly part of Khan's repertoire from the late 1970s to mid-1980s, including classic single cuts such as "I'm Every Woman", "Fate", "Eye To Eye", "Clouds", "I Feel for You", as well as album tracks such as "Pass It On (Sure Thing)" and "A Woman in a Man's World".
Dance Classics is, however, mainly notable for the inclusion of two rarities: the original 12" Long Vocal Mix and 12" Instrumental Version of the 1982 hit single "Tearin' It Up", both mixed by legendary DJ Larry Levan and as yet only available on this compilation. The original version of "Tearin' It Up" appears on the eponymous Chaka Khan album, which remains unreleased on CD in both the United States and Europe.
The Dance Classics of Chaka Khan set also features both the original 1978 version and the 1989 remix of "I'm Every Woman" (from Life is a Dance - The Remix Project) and concludes with the 1984 ballad "Through the Fire".


== Track listing ==
"Tearin' It Up" (Long Vocal Mix) (Lumibao, Sigler) - 7:23
Original version appears on 1982 album  Chaka Khan
"I'm Every Woman" (Ashford & Simpson) - 4:06
From 1978 album Chaka
"Pass It On (A Sure Thing)" (Maiden, Washburn) - 5:03
Original version appears on 1982 album Chaka Khan
"Clouds" (Ashford, Simpson)  4:26
From 1980 album Naughty
"Fate" (Bugatti, Musker) - 3:15
From 1981 album What Cha' Gonna Do For Me
"Eye to Eye" (Freeman, Sembello, Sembello, Sembello) - 4:39
From 1984 album I Feel for You
"I Feel for You" (Prince) - 5:45
From 1984 album I Feel for You
"A Woman in a Man's World" (Kastner, McNally) - 3:58
From 1978 album Chaka
"What Cha' Gonna Do for Me" (Doheny, Stuart) - 3:53
From 1981 album What Cha' Gonna Do For Me
"I Know You, I Live You" (Khan, Mardin) - 4:29
From 1981 album What Cha' Gonna Do For Me
"I'm Every Woman" (Remix Version By Dancin' Danny D.) (Ashford, Simpson) - 8:21
From 1989 compilation Life is a Dance - The Remix Project. Original version appears on 1978 album  Chaka
"Tearin' It Up" (Instrumental) (Lumibao, Sigler) - 8:08
Original version appears on 1982 album Chaka Khan
"Through the Fire" (Foster, Keane, Weil) - 4:45
From 1984 album I Feel for You


== Personnel ==
Michel Comte – Photography
David Foster – Producer
Larry Levan – Remixing
Arif Mardin – Producer
Russ Titelman – Producer
Glenn Wexler – Cover Photo

The Ravenden Springs School is a historic school building on Ash and Wells Streets in Ravenden Springs, Arkansas.  It is a large single-story fieldstone structure with a hip roof, built in 1941.  It has Craftsman styling, notable in its front porch, and grouping of windows on the sides.  The building was used as a school until 1974, and went through a number of ownership changes before its reacquisition by the town in 1990.
The building was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2004, at which time it was being adapted to house town offices.


== See also ==
National Register of Historic Places listings in Randolph County, Arkansas


== References ==

Battle of the Gods is a closed-end, computer moderated, science fiction play-by-mail (PBM) game that was published by Integral Games.


== Development ==
Integral Games of Arlington, Texas published Battle of the Gods in 1984. This was a closed-end, computer moderated, science fiction, play-by-mail game of easy to medium difficulty.


== Gameplay ==
In the game, "Players seek to control the universe by using their god-like powers". It had an innovative method of moving and mapping. At the outset, players allocate "multipliers" among four methods of advancing: conversion, creation, destruction, and teaching. Gods of various temperament have various possible actions beyond the powers of mortals.


== Reception ==
The editor of Gaming Universal, Bob McLain, reviewed the game in 1984, stating that it "may not become immortalized in the annals of PBM overnight, but it is good fun". He rated it at three stars of five, or "average". In the April 1985 edition of Dragon (Issue 96), Mike Gray liked the new concept, but questioned whether the game was worth its cost per turn, saying, "the game is relatively simple, and you can't do a whole lot for the $3.50 turn fee... It is not the most exciting PBM game. Half of the players in my game dropped out." However, he did think the game was good for new players: "For a beginning PBM player, the game is easy to understand and very clearly explained." Gray concluded with a hope that the game would be expanded and made more complex. "I like the fresh, new ideas in this game very much — I've never played anything else like it. Down the road, I can see these ideas expanded into a more complex and very interesting game."


== See also ==
List of play-by-mail games


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
Editors (May–June 1984). "GameLine News & Updates: Integral Games". Paper Mayhem. No. 6. p. 18. A capsule-type review of the game.
Gray, Mike (April 1985). "PBM Update, News & Views: Battle of the Gods". Dragon. No. 96. TSR, Inc. p. 38.
McLain, Bob (Summer–Fall 1984). "Gamealog: Battle of the Gods". Gaming Universal. No. 3–4. p. 57.

The Continental Basketball Association (CBA), originally known as the Eastern Pennsylvania Basketball League, and later as the Eastern Professional Basketball League and the Eastern Basketball Association, was a men's professional basketball minor league in the United States from 1946 to 2009.


== History ==


=== 20th century ===

The Continental Basketball Association was founded on April 23, 1946, under its previous name, the Eastern Pennsylvania Basketball League. It was organized on in Hazleton, Pennsylvania by Eddie White of Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, Robert Jamelli of Hazleton and Ron Regar of Reading, Pennsylvania. George Z. Keller of Wilkes-Barre was the league's first commissioner. It went on to bill itself as the "World's Oldest Professional Basketball League", since its founding pre-dated the founding of the National Basketball Association by two months. The league fielded six franchises, five of which were in Pennsylvania: Allentown, Hazleton, Lancaster, Reading, and Wilkes-Barre. A sixth team, Binghamton, was located in New York, but moved to Pottsville in Pennsylvania mid-season. The first season opened on December 1, 1946.
The following season, Allentown withdrew from the EPBL, and the Wilkes-Barre team was sold to Williamsport. Teams were added in Philadelphia, Harrisburg and Sunbury, making eight teams in the EPBL that year.
In 1948, the league was renamed the Eastern Professional Basketball League, and additional franchises were added in three additional Pennsylvania cities, Williamsport, Scranton, and Sunbury, three New Jersey cities, Trenton, Camden, and Asbury Park, three in Connecticut, New Haven, Hartford, Bridgeport, and in Wilmington, Delaware, and Springfield, Massachusetts.
From the 1950s through the 1960s, many NBA teams had unofficial quotas on the number of black players on their teams. Many players joined other professional leagues, including the EPBL. The league was fast and physical, often played in tiny, smoke-filled gyms across the Northeastern United States, and featuring the best players who could not make many NBA teams because of the quotas.
Following the lead of the American Basketball League (1961–1962) in adding a three-point line, the Eastern League added a three-point line for its 1964–65 season. Although three-point shots during the 1960s were few and far between, the Eastern League developed several scorers who used the three-point shot to their advantage.
For the 1970–71 season, the league rebranded itself the Eastern Basketball Association, operating as a professional Northeastern regional league and as an unofficial feeder system to the NBA and ABA. The CBA's first commissioner was Harry Rudolph, father of NBA referee Mendy Rudolph. Steve A. Kauffman, currently a basketball agent, succeeded Rudolph as commissioner in 1975. Kauffman executed a plan to bring the Anchorage Northern Knights into the league beginning with the 1977–78 season. Kauffman kept the league name because he felt having a team in the Eastern League from Alaska might get the league additional notice and recognition. The establishment of the Anchorage franchise garnered national media attention, including a feature story in Sports Illustrated.
Kauffman served as commissioner until 1978, when his deputy commissioner, Jim Drucker, took the reins. Drucker's eight-season reign was the longest in the league's history.  Drucker, son of NBA referee Norm Drucker, continued as commissioner until 1986.
As commissioner, the league was renamed the Continental Basketball Association in 1978, eventually leading to expansion across the country.
During Drucker's term, the league expanded from 8 to 14 teams, landed its first national TV contracts and saw franchise values increase from $5,000 to $500,000, an aggregate increase in equity value from $24,000 to $7 million. The league instituted novel rule changes including sudden-death overtime, a no foul-out rule and a change in the way league standings were determined. Under the "7-Point System", seven points were awarded each game: three points for winning a game and one point for every quarter a team won. As a result, a winning team would wind up with four to seven points in the standings, while a losing team could collect from zero to three points. This made for at least some fan interest even in the late stages of games that were otherwise blowouts; the trailing team could still get a standings point by winning the final quarter, especially if the team that was leading chose to rest some or all of its starters. The league used this method to calculate division standings from its implementation in 1983 until the league's end in 2009.
After Darryl Dawkins shattered two basketball backboards during the 1979–80 NBA season, the NBA used the CBA to test an innovation as part of the basket, the breakaway rim, in the 1980–81 CBA season. Three designs were chosen to be used in games, being chosen from ten prototype designs. Several college basketball players were asked to try to break the rims before being introduced in the CBA. When force was placed upon the spring-loaded rim, it would be pulled down, then spring safely back in place. The NBA and CBA adopted the most resilient design among the three for the 1981–82 season.
Also during this time, the CBA created a series of halftime promotions. The most successful was the "1 Million Dollar CBA Supershot". In an era where the typical basketball halftime promotion, even in NCAA Division I and the NBA, featured a winning prize worth less than $100, the CBA's Supershot, created in 1983, offered a grand prize of $1 million if a randomly selected fan could hit one shot from the far foul line, 69.75 feet (21.26 m). No one won the  insured  prize, but the shot attracted national media coverage in Sports Illustrated, The New York Times, and The Sporting News.
In 1984, the CBA signed a cable television contract with BET with 10 CBA games televised on a tape delay.  For national media attention, the league created the "CBA Sportscaster Contest" to select a color commentator for its BET telecasts. With tryouts nationwide, the promotion was featured on the NBC Nightly News, Entertainment Tonight, Sports Illustrated and other media. The contest was won by a NJ high school basketball coach, Bill Lange, who later coached the Philadelphia Spirit minor league team in the United States Basketball League.
After two tape-delayed seasons on BET, CBA games moved to ESPN, with 13 games televised live. ESPN sportscaster Bob Ley did the play-by-play and former NBA player and coach Kevin Loughery provided color commentary.  Drucker left as Commissioner, and his TV production company, Global Sports, produced the ESPN telecasts.
In 1985, the CBA followed with the "Ton-of-Money Free Throw", which featured a prize of 2,000 pounds (910 kg) of pennies ($5,000) if a randomly selected fan could make just one free throw. Two of fourteen contestants were successful. The next year, the league featured the "Easy Street Shootout". In that shootout, 14 contestants, one from each CBA city, were selected and the person making the longest shot won a $1,000,000 zero-coupon bond. The winner was Don Mattingly of the Evansville Thunder, unrelated to the New York Yankee baseball player.  After the league's 1985 All-Star Game in Casper, Wyoming, the CBA invited fans to make a paper airplane from the centerfold of their game program, each identified with a unique serial number, and attempt to throw it through the moon roof of a new Ford Thunderbird parked at mid-court. Four fans were successful and a tie-breaker determined the winner who drove home with the new $17,000 car.
In August 1999, the CBA's teams were purchased by an investment group led by former NBA star Isiah Thomas. The group bought all of the individually owned franchises of the CBA, in a $10 million acquisition. Over the course of the next 18 months, Thomas was faced with a plethora of business troubles, losing the league's partnership with the NBA and ultimately abandoning the league into a blind trust that left teams unable to meet payroll or pay bills. The combined-ownership plan was unsuccessful and, by 2001, the CBA had declared bankruptcy and ceased operations; it folded on February 8, 2001, without managing to complete the 2000–01 season.


=== 21st century ===
Before the 2000–01 season, the CBA signed a television contract with BET to broadcast up to 18 games, including the CBA All-Star Game, although the CBA folded midway through the season. Several of its teams briefly joined the now-defunct International Basketball League.
Highlights of Thomas's ownership of the CBA included:

August 3, 1999: Former NBA star Isiah Thomas purchases the CBA (the entire league including all the teams and its marketing entity, CBA Properties) for $10 million. He says that the league will now operate as a single-owner entity, and the CBA will continue to be the official developmental league of the NBA.
October 7, 1999: Sale of the CBA to Thomas is finalized. Thomas pays $5 million up front, agreeing to make four additional payments to the CBA's former team owners for the remainder of the debt.
October 24, 1999: He announces salary cuts in the CBA. The average salary of $1,500 per week will be reduced to $1,100, with rookies getting $800. Thomas' reasoning is that by reducing the number of veterans in the league, there will be more young players available for NBA teams.
March 2000: The NBA offers Thomas $11 million plus a percentage of the profits for the CBA. Thomas chooses not to sell.
June 28, 2000: Thomas is offered the head coaching job of the NBA's Indiana Pacers. Since NBA rules forbid a coach from owning his own league (as it would be a conflict of interest), Thomas is obliged to sell the CBA. On this day, Thomas signs a letter of intent to sell the CBA to the NBA Players' Association.
Summer 2000: After 20 years of using the CBA as its developmental league, the NBA announces it will form its own minor-league feeder system, creating the National Basketball Development League (later the NBA Development League). The CBA will no longer be the NBA's official developmental league following the end of the 2001 season.
October 2, 2000: Thomas places the league into a blind trust and becomes head coach of the Pacers.
February 8, 2001: The CBA suspends play midway through the 2000–2001 season. The blind trust that had hoped to find a new owner for the league abandons its efforts, and the league has over $2 million in debts. The teams are offered back to their original owners for a $1 simple consideration, and several owners accept the offer. Many more refuse, and their clubs go under.
February 24, 2001: The CBA declares bankruptcy. Five former CBA team owners repurchase their franchises and join the rival International Basketball League (IBL) to finish the season. Other owners choose to allow their franchises to fail, rather than cover debts that were not theirs originally.
Summer 2001: The IBL folds.
November 2001: The CBA reorganizes for the 2001–02 season as former CBA franchises in Rockford, Gary, Grand Rapids and Sioux Falls merge with the smaller International Basketball Association (IBA), which has franchises in Bismarck (Dakota Wizards), Fargo (Fargo-Moorhead Beez) and Saskatoon (Saskatchewan Hawks). The Flint (Michigan) Fuze join as an expansion team.
November 16, 2001: The first game in the history of the National Basketball Developmental League is played.
In fall 2001, CBA and IBL teams merged with the International Basketball Association and purchased the assets of the defunct CBA (including its name, logo and records) from the bankruptcy trustee and resumed operations as the CBA, assuming the former league's identity and history. The league obtained eight new franchises (for a total of ten) for the 2006 season. The Atlanta Krunk Wolverines and Vancouver Dragons deferred their participation until the 2007–2008 season and the Utah Eagles folded on January 25, 2007. The CBA's 2007–08 season began with 10 franchises, the greatest number of teams to start a CBA season since the 2000–01 season. In addition to six returning franchises the CBA added three expansion teams – the Oklahoma Cavalry, the Rio Grande Valley Silverados and East Kentucky Miners; the Atlanta Krunk joined the league after sitting out the 2006–07 season.
The 2008–2009 season began with only four teams, instead of the expected five. The Pittsburgh Xplosion folded under unclear circumstances, and the league scheduled games against American Basketball Association (ABA) teams for the first month of the season in an attempt to stay solvent. The maneuver was not enough. On February 2, 2009, the league announced a halt to operations, turning a scheduled series between the Albany Patroons and Lawton-Fort Sill Cavalry into the league-championship series.


=== Integration ===
During the 1946–47 Eastern League season, the Hazleton Mountaineers had three African-American players on their roster during the season – Bill Brown, Zack Clayton and John Isaacs. Isaacs previously played with an all-black touring squad (the Washington Bears), while Brown and Clayton were alumni of the Harlem Globetrotters. During the 1955–56 season, the Hazleton Hawks Eastern League team was the first integrated professional league franchise with an all-black starting lineup: Tom Hemans, Jesse Arnelle, Fletcher Johnson, Sherman White and Floyd Lane. The all-black Dayton Rens competed in the 1948–49 National Basketball League.


== CBA–NBA relationship ==
During the early years of the CBA, when it was known as the EPBL, the league's relationship with the NBA was frosty at best. The NBA sent several players to the Eastern League for extra playing time, and for several seasons two Eastern League teams played the opening game of a New Year's Eve doubleheader at Madison Square Garden (with the NBA playing the nightcap game). Although the NBA played exhibition games with the Eastern League during the late 1940s and early 1950s, the exhibition games ceased in 1954 when the Eastern League signed several college basketball players involved in point-shaving gambling scandals during their college years, including Jack Molinas, Sherman White, Floyd Layne, and Al Roth. The Eastern League also signed 7-foot center Bill Spivey, the former University of Kentucky standout who was accused of point-shaving; although Spivey was acquitted of all charges, the NBA still banned him from the league for life.
After a few seasons, however, the NBA and EPBL resumed exhibition games in the 1950s (including a 1956 matchup in which the NBA's Syracuse Nationals lost to the EPBL's Wilkes-Barre Barons at Wilkes-Barre's home court). Other EPBL-NBA exhibition matchups include an October 1959 contest in which the New York Knicks defeated the Allentown Jets 131–102 at Allentown; and a contest in April 1961, in which the Boston Celtics also played an exhibition contest against Allentown (defeating the Eastern Leaguers soundly). The Eastern League became a haven for players who wanted to play professionally, but were barred from the NBA because of academic restrictions. Even though Ray Scott had left the University of Portland two months after his matriculation, the NBA could not sign Scott to a contract until Scott's class graduated. The EPBL, however, could sign him and Scott played 77 games for the Allentown Jets before later joining the NBA's Detroit Pistons.
By the 1967–68 season, the Eastern League lost many of its players when the upstart American Basketball Association formed. Players such as Lavern "Jelly" Tart, Willie Somerset, Art Heyman and Walt Simon (all of whom were all-stars in the Eastern League a year before) were now in ABA uniforms. The ABA continued to siphon off NBA and Eastern League players, leaving the Eastern League with only six teams in 1972 and four teams in 1975. Only the ABA-NBA merger in June 1976 kept the Eastern League alive, as an influx of players from defunct ABA teams joined the league.
In 1979, the NBA signed four players from the newly renamed CBA. The CBA, receiving no compensation from the NBA for these signings, sued the NBA. The suit was settled and in exchange for the right to sign any CBA player at any time, the NBA paid the CBA $115,000; it also paid the CBA $80,000 to develop NBA referees in the CBA. During this time, the NBA created the "10-day-contract", where an NBA team could sign a CBA player for 10 days, at the pro rata NBA minimum salary (as per the NBA's collective bargaining agreement). The NBA team could re-sign him to a second 10-day contract. After the second 10-day contract, the team had to either return the player to his CBA team or sign him for the balance of the NBA regular season. The CBA teams, in turn,  received compensation for each 10-day contract.
By 1980, the CBA had become the official development league of the NBA. CBA teams had exclusive rights to players released by their NBA affiliated teams. NBA teams could sign players from any CBA team.   By 1986, 54 former CBA players were playing in the NBA.
In 1987 the CBA announced that teams were allowed to sign players banned for drug use by the NBA. Mitchell Wiggins, who was suspended by the NBA for cocaine use, was one of the first players signed in the CBA under the new rule that was implemented in conjunction with the NBA and NBA Players Association.
During the 1993–94 season, the NBA–CBA affiliate relationship was replaced by an annual draft of NBA players. The draft gave CBA teams exclusive negotiating rights with NBA players in the event of their release from an NBA roster. The CBA team owned exclusive rights to the draftee in perpetuity.
During the 1980s and 1990s, the NBA's relationship with the CBA grew to the point where dozens of former CBA stars found their way onto NBA rosters, including Tim Legler (Omaha Racers), Mario Elie (Albany Patroons), and John Starks (Cedar Rapids Silver Bullets). The CBA also sent qualified coaches to the NBA, including Phil Jackson (Albany Patroons), Bill Musselman (Tampa Bay Thrillers), Eric Musselman (Rapid City Thrillers), Flip Saunders (LaCrosse Catbirds) and George Karl (Montana Golden Nuggets). In 2001, the NBA formed its own minor league, the National Basketball Development League (the NBDL or "D-League"). At the end of the 2005–2006 season, three current and one expansion CBA franchises jumped to the NBDL. During the 2006–07 season no players were called up from the CBA to the NBA, ending a streak of over 30 seasons of at least one call-up per year. That soon led to the beginning of the end for the CBA.


== NBA affiliation ==
The first affiliated team with NBA franchises was Baltimore Metros (Washington Bullets, Atlanta Hawks, Milwaukee Bucks) in the 1978–79 season, the first under the CBA name, and Billings Volcanoes became the second in 1981 (Chicago Bulls, Phoenix Suns, Utah Jazz). In the 1983–84 season there were 12 CBA teams affiliated with NBA franchises and it went on until the 1992-93 season with a record of 17 affiliations. After 1993 there was no CBA club affiliated to NBA which lasted until 2009.


== Rules and innovations ==
The CBA followed largely the same basketball rules as the NBA and most other professional leagues. Sometimes rules adopted by the CBA on an experimental basis later became permanent in that league and were adopted by other levels of basketball as well; others remained unique to the CBA. From 1978 through 1986, CBA commissioner Jim Drucker created several new rules to raise fan interest, which were then adopted by the league:

Season standings were changed from a win–loss percentage, to the "7 Point System". During each game, seven points were awarded—three for winning the game, and one point for each quarter in which a team outscored their opponent.  (If each team scored the same number of points in a quarter, the point for that quarter was halved.) Team standings were determined by the number of points, rather than win–loss percentage.
A player could not foul out of the game; after a player's sixth personal foul, the opposing team receives an automatic free throw.
During the 1982–83 and 1983–84 seasons, overtime games were decided by the team that scored the first three points in overtime. During the 1984–85 season, that rule was modified so that victory went to the first team to lead by three points in overtime. By the 1987–88 season, that rule was superseded by a standard five-minute overtime period to determine the winner.
During the 1981–82 season, the CBA created a 6 by 5 feet (1.8 m × 1.5 m) "no call box"—an area in front of the baskets in which any contact in the box between offensive and defensive players was to be an automatic defensive foul. This rule, which was designed to encourage drives to the hoop, caused more confusion than scoring, and was quickly abandoned. A variation of this rule, using an arc rather than a box, was adopted by the NBA in 2002, and later also by the NCAA.
For a few years in the early 1980s the CBA offered a money-back guarantee—returning a patron's money if, before the start of the second quarter, the fan left the game. There was also a "national season ticket", allowing fans to attend any CBA game within a 100-mile radius of their hometown.
May 1984: At a league meeting in Louisville, Kentucky, three rules were changed; fouling a shooter on a three-point shot would result in three shots as opposed to two (later adopted by all levels of basketball), a win in overtime could only be determined when a team led by three points and a clear path foul was implemented.
Drucker also created a series of high-profile, big-money promotions that attracted increased attendance, league sponsorship and media interest. From 1984 to 1986, "The 1 Million Dollar CBA Supershot" offered a $1,000,000 annuity prize for a fan selected at random at halftime who made a 3/4-court shot. Although no fan won that one, in 1986 one fan did win a $1 million zero-coupon bond. The winner, Don Mattingly, unrelated to the New York Yankee player with the same name, won the bond in the "CBA Easy Street Shootout" at the 1986 CBA All-Star Game in Tampa, Florida. Other promotions included the "Ton of Money Free Throw", which consisted of 2,000 pounds of pennies ($5,000) for making a foul shot, and "The Fly-In, Drive-Away" Contest where each fan received a paper airplane with a distinct serial number. At halftime a new car, with the sunroof opened, was driven to mid-court and the fan who threw his airplane into the sun roof won the car. A Ford Thunderbird was won by a fan at the CBA All-Star Game in Casper, Wyoming, in 1984.
October 1985: A contest was held by the CBA to find a fan to be a color commentator on the "CBA Game of the Week" broadcast. The requirements for the contest was that the applicant had no prior broadcasting experience. The league set up a 24-hour phone number (212-828-8686) and a post office box where applicants could send their auditions.
October 21, 1985: The CBA announced they would keep statistics on slam dunks. The CBA rosters were increased from nine spots to ten. A rule change was implemented calling for a jump ball at the beginning of every quarter. A ball similar to the red white and blue basketball popularized in the American Basketball Association was used for the 1985–86 season.
June 1987: The CBA Board of Directors voted unanimously to extend the season to 54 games. The salary cap was adjusted to reflect the increased games. A five-minute overtime period was approved, scrapping the previous overtime rule that required a team to lead by three points to win.


== CBA draft ==
The CBA established a draft in 1985, following the NBA's decision to reduce its draft from 10 rounds to 7. This allowed the CBA teams to have a wider selection of players: the selection criteria were the same as the NBA draft. As with the NBA draft, players had to renounce their college eligibility if they wanted to declare early. While initially the draft was limited to players who were not drafted in the NBA, this later changed, and on several occasions players were drafted by both the NBA and the CBA. Some examples include Nick Van Exel (1993, Los Angeles Lakers of the NBA and Rapid City Thrillers of the CBA), Dontonio Wingfield (1994, Seattle SuperSonics and Rapid City Thrillers), Stephen Jackson (1997, Phoenix Suns and La Crosse Bobcats), and Jason Hart (2000, Milwaukee Bucks and Idaho Stampede).
CBA franchises usually selected players who had the higher chance to sign for them instead of signing overseas or in the NBA, even though some teams used their picks in the later rounds to select players who were likely to be drafted in the NBA, in the event these players were cut in the preseason. Some teams also used their picks for publicity: for example, Cheryl Miller, a female player who played for USC in college, was selected by the Rockford Lightning with the 57th pick in the 1986 CBA draft; in the 1994 CBA draft Mexican soccer player Jorge Campos was drafted by the Mexico Aztecas, despite his ineligibility. In 1997, Lamar Odom, then a highly recruited high school prospect, was given the opportunity to enter the CBA draft and choose the team he wanted to play for, reversing the traditional drafting process; Odom, however, decided not to hire an agent and opted to play in college.
CBA draft first overall picks 


== Salary cap ==
In the 1988–89 season every franchise had a salary cap of $80,000 for its entire roster.
It was reported that in 1993 that the salary cap was $130,000 for a 10-player active roster, while a top rookie could earn from $13,000 to $15,000. Seven years later, in 2000, the cap had increased to $220,000 for a 10-player roster, meaning that an average player would make roughly $22,000 a year.


== Team timelines ==
Italics denote a team that was re-located or re-branded. Bold denotes a team that played in the last full CBA season.
Albany Patroons (1982–1992) → Capital Region Pontiacs (1992–93) → Hartford Hellcats (1993–94) → Connecticut Pride (1994–2000)
Albany Patroons (2005–2009)
Alberta Dusters (1980–1982) → Las Vegas Silvers (1982) → Albuquerque Silvers (1982–1985)
Allentown Jets (1978–1979) → Lehigh Valley Jets (1979–1981)
Anchorage Northern Knights (1978–1983)
Atlanta Krunk (2007–2008)
Baltimore Metros (1978–1979) → Mohawk Valley Thunderbirds (1979) → Utica Olympics (1979–1980) → Atlantic City Hi-Rollers (1980–1983)
Butte Daredevils (2006–2008)
Dakota Wizards (2001–2006)
Detroit Spirits (1982–1986) → Savannah Spirits (1986–1988) → Tulsa Fast Breakers (1988–1991) → Tulsa Zone (1991–1992) → Fargo-Moorhead Fever (1992–1994) → Mexico City Aztecas (1994–1995) → San Diego Wildcards (1995)
East Kentucky Miners (2007–2009)
Evansville Thunder (1984–1986)
Fargo-Moorhead Beez (2001–2002)
Flint Fuze (2001–2002) → Great Lakes Storm (2002–2005)
Fort Wayne Fury (1991–2001)
Gary Steelheads (2000–2006)
Grand Rapids Hoops (1989–1994) → Grand Rapids Mackers (1994–1996) → Grand Rapids Hoops (1996–2003)
Great Falls Explorers (2006–2008)
Hawaii Volcanos (1979–1980) → Billings Volcanos (1980–1984)
Idaho Stampede (1997–2006)
Indiana Alley Cats (2006–2007)
Jersey Shore Bullets (1978–1979)
Kansas City Sizzlers (1985–1986) → Topeka Sizzlers (1986–1990) → Yakima Sun Kings (1990–2008)
Lancaster Red Roses (1978–1980) → Philadelphia Kings (1980–1981) → Lancaster Lightning (1981–1985) → Baltimore Lightning (1985–1986) → Rockford Lightning (1986–2006)
Louisville Catbirds (1983–1985) → La Crosse Catbirds (1985–1994) → Pittsburgh Piranhas (1994–1995)
Maine Lumberjacks (1978–1983) → Bay State Bombardiers (1983–1986) → Pensacola Tornados (1986–1991) → Birmingham Bandits (1991–1992) → Rochester Renegade (1992–1994) → Harrisburg Hammerheads (1994–1995)
Michigan Mayhem (2004–2006)
Minot SkyRockets (2006–2009)
Montana Golden Nuggets (1980–1983) → Puerto Rico Coquis (1983–1985) → Maine Windjammers (1985–1986)
Ohio Mixers (1982–1984) → Cincinnati Slammers (1984–1987) → Cedar Rapids Silver Bullets (1988–1991) → Tri-City Chinook (1991–1995)
Oklahoma Cavalry (2007–2008) → Lawton-Fort Sill Cavalry (2008–2009)
Oklahoma City Cavalry (1990–1997)
Pittsburgh Xplosion (2006–2008)
Quad City Thunder (1987–2001)
Reno Bighorns (1982–1983)
Rio Grande Valley Silverados (2007–2008)
Rochester Zeniths (1978–1984)
Rockford Lightning (2007–2009)
San Jose Jammers (1989–1991) → Bakersfield Jammers (1991–1992)
Santa Barbara Islanders (1989–1990)
Sarasota Stingers (1983–1985) → Florida Stingers (1985–86) → Charleston Gunners (1986–1989) → Columbus Horizon (1989–1994) → Shreveport Crawdads (1994–1995) → Shreveport Storm (1995–1996)
Sioux Falls Sky Force (1989–2000, 2001–2006)
Saskatchewan Hawks (2001–2002)
Tampa Bay Thrillers (1984–1986) → Rapid City Thrillers (1986–1995) → Florida Beachdogs (1995–1997)
Toronto Tornados (1983–1985) → Pensacola Tornados (1985–1986) → Jacksonville Jets (1986) → Mississippi Jets (1986–1987) → Wichita Falls Texans (1988–1994) → Chicago Rockers (1994–1996) → La Crosse Bobcats (1996–2001)
Utah Eagles (2006–2007)
Wilkes-Barre Barons (1978–1979) → Pennsylvania Barons (1979–1980) → Scranton Aces (1980–1981)
Wisconsin Flyers (1982–1987) → Rochester Flyers (1987–1989) → Omaha Racers (1989–1998)
Wyoming Wildcatters (1982–1988)


== CBA All-Stars ==
In 1949, the league selected an All-Star team EPBL All Star Game against the Pottsville Packers . It continued for many years until 31 December 1988, facing the Rockford Lightning in the All-Star Game. A CBA All-Star team also played the Soviet Union on October 28, 1986, a team led by Vladimir Tkachenko and Sarunas Marculionis  (Arvydas Sabonis did not play due to a heel injury). The CBA All-Stars lost 77-72 (Kenny Natt 16 pts, Billy Goodwin 12, Derrick Rowland 13 Lowes Moore 10 - Tkachenko 18, Marculionis 18).
The matches

1949: EPBL All-Stars - Pottsville Packers 74–69
1962: EPBL All-Stars - Allentown Jets 124–119
1963: EPBL All-Stars - Camden Bullets 122–114
1965: EPBL All-Stars - Camden Bullets 129–147
1970: All-Stars - Wilmington Blue Bombers 123–129
1971: EBA All-Stars - Scranton Apollos 123–146
1972: EBA All-Stars - Scranton Apollos 129–110
1976: EBA All-Stars - Allentown Jets 137–134
1977: EBA All-Stars - Allentown Jets 136–18
1979: West All-Stars - Rochester Zeniths 182–148
1983: CBA All-Stars - Allentown Jets 109–122
1984: CBA All-Stars - Wyoming Wildcatters 128–125
1985: CBA All-Stars - Evansville Thunder 113–109
1986: CBA All-Stars - Tampa Bay Thrillers 110–108
1986: CBA All-Stars - Soviet Union 72–77
1987: CBA All-Stars - La Crosse Catbirds 105–102
1988: CBA All-Stars - Topeka Sizzlers 115–94
1988: CBA All-Stars - Rockford Lightning 97–103


== International players ==


== Attendances ==
CBA era (1978–2009).


== Commissioners ==
The commissioners of the CBA were:


=== EPBL ===
William Morgan (1946–55)
Harry Rudolph (1955–70)


=== EBA ===
William Montzman (1970–75)
Steve A. Kauffman (1975–78)


=== CBA ===
Jim Drucker (1978–86)
Carl Scheer (1986–87)
Mike Storen (1987–88)
Jay Ramsdell (1988–89)
Jerry Schemmel (1989–90)
Irv Kaze (1990–91)
Terdema Ussery (1991–93)
Mark Lamping (1993–94)
Tom Valdiserri (1994–96)
Steve Patterson (1996–98)
Gary Hunter (1998–99)
Isiah Thomas (1999–00)
Don Welsh (2000–01)
Gary Hunter (2001–06)
Jim Coyne (2007)
Dennis Truax (2007–09)


== Hall of Famers ==


=== Basketball Hall of Fame ===
 Phil Jackson, Albany Patroons coach
 Isiah Thomas, CBA commissioner
 George Gervin, Quad City Thunder player


=== Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame ===
 Cazzie Russell, Grand Rapids Hoops coach
 George Gervin, Quad City Thunder player
 Isiah Thomas, CBA commissioner


=== Australian Basketball Hall of Fame ===
  Scott Fisher, Cincinnati Slammers player


== See also ==

List of Continental Basketball Association seasons
Continental Basketball Association statistical leaders
List of Continental Basketball Association All-Star Games
List of Continental Basketball Association award winners and successful alumni
List of Continental Basketball Association champions
List of developmental and minor sports leagues


== References ==


== External links ==

Continental Basketball Association on FunWhileItLasted.net
The CBA Museum
CBA bankruptcy
CBA Website on WayBack Machine
Continental Basketball Association Programs
CBA on usbasket.com
CBA Draft 1985-2002 on nbahoopsonline.com

Ola Svanberg (born June 10, 1985, in Tranemo) is a Swedish former ice hockey player. He played with the VIK Västerås HK after having transferred from Brynäs IF in the Elitserien on 30 January 2009. He won the Swedish Hockey League, which is known as Elitserien, in the 2003–04 season with the Jönköping ice hockey club HV71.


== Career statistics ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Biographical information and career statistics from Eliteprospects.com, or Eurohockey.com, or The Internet Hockey Database

Carreras is a barrio in the municipality of Arecibo, Puerto Rico. Its population in 2010 was 1,226.


== History ==
Carreras was in Spain's gazetteers until Puerto Rico was ceded by Spain in the aftermath of the Spanish–American War under the terms of the Treaty of Paris of 1898 and became an unincorporated territory of the United States. In 1899, the United States Department of War conducted a census of Puerto Rico finding that the population of Carreras barrio was 676.


== Sectors ==
Barrios (which are, in contemporary times, roughly comparable to  minor civil divisions) in turn are further subdivided into smaller local populated place areas/units called sectores (sectors in English). The types of sectores may vary, from normally sector to urbanización to reparto to barriada to residencial, among others.
The following sectors are in Carreras barrio:
Sector Carreras I,
Sector Carreras II,
Sector Cuesta Biáfara,
Sector Jagual, and 
Sector Jurutungo.


== Gallery ==


== See also ==

List of communities in Puerto Rico
List of barrios and sectors of Arecibo, Puerto Rico


== References ==

Raja Aziz Bhatti NH  (6 August 1928 – 12 September 1965) was a Pakistani military officer and the 4th recipient of Pakistan's highest military honour, the Nishan-e-Haider, which he was posthumously awarded for his brave defence of Lahore during the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965.
Born in British Hong Kong, Bhatti attended the Queen's College and was later drafted into the Imperial Japanese Navy, during the Japanese occupation of Hong Kong, in 1944, first serving as a seaman recruit and later a tower watchman. The following year, he relocated to British India where he joined the British Indian Air Force as an airman in June 1946.
Following the partition of India in August 1947, Bhatti served as a corporal in the Pakistan Air Force and later successfully applied to join the Pakistan Army in 1948, and  was promoted to the rank of major in 1962. During the Indo-Pakistani War of 1965, Bhatti was killed in action while defending Lahore in the Battle of Burki. He was awarded the Nishan-e-Haider posthumously for his actions during the battle, and is known in Pakistan as Muhafiz-i Lahore ("the defender of Lahore").


== Early life and education ==

Raja Aziz Bhatti was born in British Hong Kong on 6 August 1928 into a Punjabi Rajput (Bhatti clan) family with roots in Punjab. His family hailed from a small village about 23 miles away from the Gujrat city (now in Pakistan) of Punjab in British India, who had immigrated to British Hong Kong after his father and two uncles were employed in the Hong Kong Police Force. His father, Muhammad Abdullah Bhatti, was an alumnus of the Queen's College in Hong Kong who later served as an Inspector in the Hong Kong Police Force. Aziz Bhatti was educated in Hong Kong where he completed his matriculation and attended the Queen's College but his education was halted due to the Japanese invasion and occupation of Hong Kong in 1941.  


== Military career ==


=== Imperial Japanese Navy ===
He was drafted into the Imperial Japanese Navy in 1944, first serving at the rank of the seaman recruit and as the tower watchman (observation post) before being directed to attend the officer school offered by the Imperial Japanese Navy due to his educational qualifications.


=== Royal Indian Air Force ===
However, in December 1945, the Bhatti family relocated to British India, and Aziz Bhatti enlisted to join the Royal Indian Air Force as an airman in June 1946. 


=== Pakistan Air Force ===
After the establishment of Pakistan in 1947, Bhatti joined the Pakistan Air Force and was promoted as corporal (Cpl.), and continued to serve in the air force until 1948. Cpl. Bhatti was a prospective candidate to join the Air Force Academy in Risalpur and was known to be among the brightest members of the Pakistan Air Force in its early years.
After served in the Pakistan Air Force as an enlisted man, Bhatti left the air force as a corporal in a favor of transferring to the Army, gaining officer's commission in the Pakistan Army.
On 21 January 1948, Bhatti submitted an application to the Ministry of Defense (MoD), asking to be transferred to the Pakistan Army, which was approved and Bhatti was directed to attend the Pakistan Military Academy in Kakul in 1948. There, he distinguished himself in studies and athletics among his classmates, and passed out from the academy at the top of his class in the class of the first PMA Long Course, in 1950.  He was awarded the Sword of Honor and the Norman gold medallion by the ceremony's chief guest, Prime Minister Liaquat Ali Khan. He was commissioned as the 2nd-Lt. in the 4th battalion of the 16th Punjab Regiment (4/16th Punjab Regiment). He was promoted to lieutenant in 1951 and to captain in 1953.
In 1956, Aziz was sent to Canada to attend the staff course at the Canadian Army Command and Staff College where he remained until graduation from strategic studies courses in 1960. Upon returning to Pakistan, Capt. Aziz was posted with the 17th Punjab Regiment as a General Staff Officer (GSO) until 1962. After being promoted as major in the Army in 1962, Maj. Aziz was taken into the faculty of the School of Infantry and Tactics in Quetta, which he remained until 1964.


=== Indo-Pakistani war of 1965 ===

From January till May 1965, Maj. Bhatti served as the General Staff Officer (GSO) of the 17th Punjab Regiment, but was later posted as the commander of the two military companies after the Indian Army's counterattack to Operation Gibraltar, crossing the international borders in September 1965. Leading the military companies, Maj. Bhatti was initially deployed on the forward positions of the BRB Canal near the Burki area that falls in the vicinity of the Lahore District in Pakistani Punjab.
Official engagement with the Indian Army took place between 7–10 September when the Indian Army begin its push in an attempt to capture the Burki sector through artillery and armory with a view to enter Lahore. During Indian Army's efforts to capture the Burki sector through the BRB Canal, the outnumbered military companies under Major Bhatti had forced the Indian Army to engage in hand-to-hand combat during the night of the 7/8 September 1965, and the fighting continued for the next three days despite Indian Army having numerical advantage. Although the defense of the Burki sector through the BRB Canal had less importance in the views of military strategists working at the Army GHQ in Rawalpindi, its defense was fierce and tenacious, and the Indian Army had to halt its plans of capturing Lahore and focused on capturing the Burki sector and destroying the bridge connecting the BRB Canal. It is unclear why the Pakistan Army did not send the reinforcement teams to provide back up to Maj. Bhatti's teams and the questionnaire-based controversy was later generated on why Maj. Bhatti and his teams were left alone to fight bravely for a long time.
Bhatti declined an offer to take leave with his family in Lahore and instead told a sergeant, "Do not recall me. I don't want to go back. I will shed the last drop of my blood in the defense of my dear homeland." Maj. Bhatti moved towards building up the trenches and positioned himself towards forward observation to view enemy movements, where he would often stand for a better view to direct howitzer fire.
Bhatti was killed on 12 September 1965. He stood up to observe enemy positions and direct artillery fire, despite warnings to take cover, and was killed by shellfire. Maj. Bhatti was 37 years old at the time of his death.


== Memorials ==


=== Ancestral home ===
Maj. Aziz Bhatti was buried in the courtyard of his ancestral home at Ladian, a small village near Gujrat, Punjab in Pakistan. In 1966, the federal government accepted the recommendations and announced to posthumously award the Nishan-e-Haider for his gallantry and actions of valor during the defense of the Burki.
Later the federal government funded to build the marble tombstone at his ancestral home in 1967 at his locality.
The Presidential Nishan-e-Haider citation on his grave is written in Urdu and is actually a poem; and it reads with translation as:
"Rouge on the face of shahadat, pride of the country and the nation are these fearless warriors, a strike of their sword wipes out the mightiest of foes
this one who came out victorious in the struggle for the cause of ALLAH is lying here in the delight of the afterlife dream. Major Bhatti fought valiantly on Lahore Front, and is posthumously presented with the Nishan-e-Haider".


=== Memorial at Barki ===
A memorial to Major Aziz Bhatti was built in 2019 at the site where he was killed defending against an Indian attack on 6 September 1965. The memorial is located approximately 500 metres north of the Barki Road/BRB Canal checkpoint on the west side of BRB Canal. The citation reads as follows in English: Major Raja Aziz Bhatti known as "Muhafiz-e-Lahore (Defender of Lahore)" received Pakistan's highest award for his valor. He was born in Hong Kong in a Muslim Rajput family (belonging to Lahore) in 1928. He got commissioned in the Pakistan Army in 1950 (17 Punjab Regiment). Major Aziz Bhatti was posted to Barki sector Lahore, during the Indo-Pak War 1965. Being a Company Commander, he moved his platoon forward to this bank of BRBLC [BRB Link Canal] under constant fire of enemy tanks and artillery. He resisted for five days and nights in defending this Pakistani outpost on the strategic BRBLC without rest. On 6 September 1965, he left his company Headquarters and moved to his forward Platoon and stayed with them under incessant artillery & tank attacks. He positioned himself in this elevated place to watch every move of the enemy. This point was vulnerable to enemy tank & artillery fire. After five days of continuous fighting on the front he was offered to be relieved for rest but he refused and said "I do not want to go back, I will shed the last drop of my blood in the defense of my dear homeland." On 10 September 1965, Major Aziz Bhatti was hit by an enemy tank shell in the chest while observing [the] enemy move from this elevated place. He was awarded the highest gallantry award of Nishan-e-Haider on his supreme act of bravery.


=== Galleries ===


== Popular culture and extended family ==
Bhatti is widely popular as the "Muhafiz-e-Lahore" (Defender of Lahore). In 1968, a paintings exhibition was inaugurated in Lahore, Punjab in Pakistan depicting Pakistan's war heroes including the first sketched portrait of Maj. Aziz Bhatti. In 1997, he was the subject of a popular and critically acclaimed biographical war drama telefilm, Major Raja Aziz Bhatti, produced by the ISPR and directed by Salim Tahir of the PTV.
It was reported in media that former Pakistan Army's General, Raheel Sharif who was the former Chief of Army Staff and Major Shabbir Sharif, another recipient of Nishan-e-Haider of Pakistan Army, are the nephews of Major Raja Aziz Bhatti.
His grandson Babar Bhatti, a Canada-based businessman, is married to the famous supermodel-turned-actress Iman Ali.
In 2019, his younger brother Sardar Bhatti wrote a book about him, Aziz Bhatti Shaheed My Brother, My Hero, published by Daastan Publishers.


== Awards and decorations ==


== Bibliography ==
Sardar Bhatti, Aziz Bhatti Shaheed My Brother, My Hero, 2019, Daastan Publishers.


== Notes ==


== References ==

Scarborough subway may refer to either of two components of the Toronto subway system:

Line 3 Scarborough, a rapid transit line that was in service from 1985 until 2023
Scarborough subway extension of Line 2 Bloor–Danforth, expected to open in 2033

Tong'an District (simplified Chinese: 同安区; traditional Chinese: 同安區; pinyin: Tóng'ān Qū; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Tâng-oaⁿ-khu) is a northern mainland district of Xiamen which faces Quemoy County, Republic of China. To the north is Anxi and Nan'an, and to the south is Jimei. Tong'an is also east of Lianxiang and Changqin to the West. It covers 657.59 square kilometres (253.90 sq mi)
Tong'an District has a population of 855,920 residents. (2020 Census).
The District deserves a nickname of Silver City (Chinese: 銀城; pinyin: Yínchéng; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Gûn-siâⁿ) because the old city resembled a sycee in plan view.


== Administration ==
Tong’an District administers two subdistricts: Datong and Xiang Ping. It has local authority over six towns. They are Hongtang, Wuxian, Tingxi, Xinming, Xike and Lianhua.
Tong'an District is also attracting foreign investment because of its status as a designated special economic zone in Xiamen.


== Geography ==

Tong'an District is almost coterminous with the basin of the Xixi River ("Western Stream"), the largest river of Xiamen City.
The Xixi starts in the Zhaijianwei Mountains (寨尖尾山) in the northwestern part of Tong'an District, and flows in the general south-eastern direction. After receiving a number of tributaries - Lianhuaxi (莲花溪, Lotus Stream), Aoxi (澳溪), Tingxi (汀溪), it merges with the Dongxi (东溪, Eastern Stream) at the place called Suangxikou (双溪口, "The confluence of two streams).
The Xixi's estuary opens into the Dongzui Harbor (东咀港), which is a bay of Taiwan Strait mostly enclosed by Tong'an District and  Xiang'an District on the mainland (on the northwest and east, respectively) and by the Xiamen Island in the south. A number of large bridges have been constructed across the Xixi estuary, carrying roads and a railway between Tong'an and Xiang'an Districts (and, viewed on a larger scale, between Xiamen and Quanzhou).


== History ==
Tong'an was made a county in AD 282 during the Jin Dynasty, but its status was revoked not long after. It was again given "county" status in AD 933 under the Later Tang administration.
Prior to 1914, its jurisdiction covered regions including present day Xiamen City, Kinmen County (ROC) and the north-eastern part of Longhai City. In May 1997, Tong'an lost its county status and became a district within Xiamen.
In September 2003, 5 towns (namely Xindian, Xinxu, Maxiang, Neicuo, and Dadeng) in the eastern and south-eastern part of the then  Tong'an District were split off, to form the new Xiang'an District.


== Economy ==
Tong'an has a mild sub tropical climate. This is very suitable for growing crops and plants. It is covered in natural resources such as granite, kaolin earth, mineral water and hot springs. It is emerging as a growing commercial base. The main agricultural products from Tong'an District are prawns, peanuts, longan, and pigs, fruits, vegetables, tea and herbs.


== Transport ==
Tong'an district is at the economic crossroad between Xiamen, Quanzhou and Zhangzhou prefecture level cities. It is an important transport hub because the Fuzhou-Xiamen and Zhangzhou-Quanzhou Highways pass directly through Tong'an District providing direct access to all the counties and villages. The Xiamen International Airport is only 27 km away. It is 32 km from the North Xiamen Freight Transport Railway Station.


== Climate ==
Tong'an climate is subtropical, rich rainfall in mild winters and hot summers. Winters are short, roughly 25 days and summer is hot with up to 152 days. The weather is changeable in spring, and autumn is very cool. Tong'an annual average temperature is 21.86 °C The coldest temperature is 13.9 °C in January and hottest is 28.9 °C in July. The annual average rainfall is 1543.5 mm and 2030.7 hours sunlight per year. The annual average evaporation is 1685.2mm, accumulated temperature is 57.67-77.17°C. This climate is suitable for agriculture, forestry industries, animal husbandry and fisheries.


== Notable people ==
Koh Lay Huan (辜禮歡甲, died 1826), Chinese-born businessman who became the first Kapitan Cina (Chinese Kapitan) of Penang
Souw Beng Kong (1580-1644), the first Kapitan Cina of Batavia


== References ==


== External links ==

Guide to Tongan
Xiamen government website

State Route 796 (SR 796) in the U.S. state of Virginia is a secondary route designation applied to multiple discontinuous road segments among the many counties. The list below describes the sections in each county that are designated SR 796. 


== List ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Texas Southern University (Texas Southern or TSU) is a public historically black university in Houston, Texas, United States. The university is a member school of the Thurgood Marshall College Fund and is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. It is classified among "R2: Doctoral Universities – High research activity".
Texas Southern University is an important institution in Houston's Third Ward. Alvia Wardlaw of Cite: The Architecture + Design Review of Houston wrote that the university serves as "the cultural and community center of" the Third Ward area where it is located, in addition to being its university. The university also serves as a notable economic resource for Greater Houston, contributing over $500 million to the region's gross sales and being directly and indirectly responsible for over 3,000 jobs.
Texas Southern University intercollegiate sports teams, the Tigers, compete in NCAA Division I and the Southwestern Athletic Conference (SWAC).  Texas Southern is home of the Ocean of Soul marching band.


== History ==
On March 7, 1927, the Houston Independent School District board resolved to establish junior colleges for each race, as the state was racially segregated in all public facilities.  The resolution created Houston Junior College, which later became the University of Houston, and Houston Colored Junior College, which first held classes at Jack Yates High School during the evenings. The school's name was later changed to Houston College for Negroes in 1934.
In February 1946, Heman Marion Sweatt, an African American man, applied to the University of Texas School of Law. He was denied admission because of race, and subsequently filed suit in Sweatt v. Painter (1950). The state had no law school for African Americans. To avoid integrating the University of Texas Law School, the state of Texas made several offers to Heman Marion Sweatt to keep him from going to court. They offered to establish the Texas State University of Negroes which would include a law school. Some black leaders welcomed the idea of having another state supported university in Texas, while many others felt as though the university was created to solely avoid the integration of the University of Texas, as well as other white institutions. In the end, they did not grant Sweatt a writ of mandamus to attend the University of Texas. Instead the trial court granted a continuance for six months to allow the state time to create a law school for blacks.
As a result, the Fiftieth Texas Legislature passed Texas Senate Bill 140 on March 3, 1947, authorizing and funding the creation of Texas State University for Negroes as the first state university to be located in Houston. The school was established to serve African Americans in Texas and offer them fields of study comparable to those available to white Texans. The state took over the Houston Independent School District (HISD)-run Houston College for Negroes as a basis for the new university. Houston College moved to the present site (adjacent to the University of Houston), which was donated by Hugh Roy Cullen. It had one permanent building and an existing faculty and students. The new university was charged with teaching "pharmacy, dentistry, arts and sciences, journalism, education, literature, law, medicine and other professional courses." The legislature stipulated that "these courses shall be equivalent to those offered at other institutions of this type supported by the State of Texas."
Given the differences in facilities and intangibles, such as the distance of the new school from Austin, the University of Texas School of Law, and other law students, the United States Supreme Court ruled the new facility did not satisfy "separate but equal" provisions. It ruled that African Americans must also be admitted to the University of Texas Law School at Austin. See Sweatt v. Painter (1950).
In March 1960, Texas Southern University students organized Houston's first sit-in at the Weingarten's lunch counter located at 4110 Almeda. The success of their efforts inspired more sit-ins throughout the city, which, within months, led to the desegregation of many of Houston's public establishments. A historical marker commissioned by the Texas Historical Commission stands on the property of the first sit-in to commemorate the courageous acts of those TSU students. That property is now a U.S. Post Office. TSU journalism professor Serbino Sandifer-Walker worked for nearly two years with the Texas Historical Commission, the original students who led the march, and many other stakeholders, to have the historic marker designated on March 4, 2010, the fiftieth anniversary of that sit-in.
On May 17, 1967, it was reported that students at TSU rioted on campus. When officers responded thousands of shots were fired and there were injuries on both sides including a death of a police officer. Nearly 500 students were arrested. Although media sources reported this as a riot, there were no reports of looting, destruction of property, or resistance of any arrest. Furthermore, the reports failed to mention the prior invasion of police officers on campus, or the reports of students getting roughed up on campus. The police raid caused over $10,000 of damage and it was reported over 3,000 shots were fired into the Lanier dormitory. There was little coverage that, the five students whom were charged with conspiracy and incitement of riot were all exonerated due to lack of evidence, or that the police officer died not from student fire, but the ricochet of Houston Police Department bullets.

A Democratic presidential debate took place on September 12, 2019, in TSU's Health and Physical Education Arena.
The university drew national attention in early 2020 when the governor-appointed board of trustees targeted the university's sitting president, changing its bylaws to empower the board to remove anyone employed by the university. The board first suspended and then fired president Austin Lane, alleging that he failed to inform them about allegations of fraud committed by a former assistant dean at the Thurgood Marshall School of Law. Lane disputed the allegations. Just prior to removing Lane, the board also changed its bylaws to allow it to "approve the termination of any position" at the university, a change that drew condemnation from several university governance experts as inappropriate micromanagement. In February 2020, the board of trustees publicly agreed there was no wrongdoing on the part of Lane and paid him nearly $900,000 in the buyout of his contract. A new president was to be named in 2020. In February 2020, one month prior to the visit of a site visit team representing the university's regional accreditor, the board partially repealed the new bylaws that allowed them to fire any university employee.


== Campus ==

The university has more than 45 buildings on a 150-acre (0.61 km2) urban gated campus centrally located in Houston. The campus is two miles southeast of downtown Houston, and five miles east of Uptown Houston. TSU is recognized as a Tree Campus USA school for its commitment to preserving and increasing campus trees.
The school's first structure was the Thornton B. Fairchild Building, built 1947–1948 and housing administration and classroom space. Temporary buildings served as faculty housing during that time. The Mack H. Hannah hall, designed by Lamar Q. Cato and opened in 1950, was the second building. In the late 1950s many more buildings opened, including classroom, dormitory, and student union facilities.


== Notable buildings ==


=== University Museum ===
Completed in 2000, the 11,000-square-foot (1,000 m2) exhibition space displays a variety of historical and contemporary art. The museum is the permanent home of the Web of Life, a twenty-six-foot mural by world-renowned artist John T. Biggers, founding chairman of the TSU art department.


=== Mack H. Hannah Hall ===
Multiple TSU student-created murals are present in Hannah Hall.
The building had two 1971 murals by Harvey Johnson, a longtime TSU art instructor, about African influences in U.S. culture and mothers: Mothers of "the Fathers and the Son" and Dere's a "Han Writin on de Wall". He was educated by the founder of the TSU art school, Dr. John T. Biggers. It, as part of the Black Power movement, was Johnson's senior project, as the university at the time allowed its students to create murals on campus property. African American Vernacular English (AAVE) was a feature of the titles.
In 2008 incoming TSU president John Rudley had the murals painted over with white paint, stating that they were not high quality enough. A spokesperson initially said that the painting over was an error but Rudley later stated it was intentional. The director of the university museum, Alvia J. Wardlaw, who teaches art history, expressed disagreement with the decision. The Houston Chronicle criticized the removal in an editorial. Johnson himself expressed disappointment with the removal. Rudley later appropriated funds for possible restoration of memorials due to the negative reception.


=== Leonard H.O. Spearman Technology ===

In 2014, TSU unveiled a $31 million, 108,000-square-foot, four-story structure named after the school's fifth president. In addition to having 35 labs, the facility is home to a Tier 1 University Transportation Center, the Center for Transportation Training and Research, and the National Science Foundation Center for Research on Complex Networks. The departments of Engineering, Transportation Studies, Computer Science, Industrial Technology, Physics, and Aviation Science and Technology academic programs are housed in the building. TSU is the only four-year state supported university in Texas to offer a Pilot Ground School course and the first HBCU to implement a Maritime Transportation degree program.


=== Jesse H. Jones School of Business ===
Jesse H. Jones (JHJ) School of Business is located in a three-story, 76,000-square-foot building completed in 1998 and accommodates 1,600 students in undergraduate and graduate studies. The Jesse H. Jones School of Business is the first business school at a HBCU to be accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) and been named one of the "Best Business Schools" by the Princeton Review. JHJ School of Business is consistently one of the highest ranked business schools from a public HBCU in the U.S. News & World Report rankings.


=== College of Education ===
The College of Education building consists of the Department of Counseling, the Department of Curriculum and Instruction, the Department of Educational Administration & Foundations, and the Department of Health and Kinesiology. The college has an enrollment of approximately 1,200 in undergraduate and graduate studies. In 2014, the National Council on Teacher Quality ranked TSU's College of Education 56th in the nation for best secondary education programs and gave the college a "top-ranked" distinction.


=== Barbara Jordan–Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs ===
An extensive set of curricular offerings is provided through the Barbara Jordan–Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs, which offers courses in Administration of Justice (AJ), Political Science (POLS), Public Affairs (PA), Military Science (MSCI), and Urban Planning & Environmental Policy (UPEP) on the undergraduate, graduate, or doctoral level. The school sits in an 82,000-square-foot facility completed in 2008.


==== TSU Justice Center ====
On January 22, 2018, the university published a new establishment Center for Justice Research (CJR) in the Barbara Jordan–Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs. The center is intended to create innovative solutions to criminal justice alteration and address challenges in America's criminal justice system. The award is granted by Charles Koch Foundation and Koch Industries.


=== TSU Science Center ===

The TSU Science Center building is home to several scholastic programs, such as the Houston Louis Stokes Alliance Minority Program (H-LSAMP). It also houses several research programs, such as the NASA University Research Center for Bio-Nanotechnology and Environmental Research (NASA URC C-BER), Maritime Transportation Studies and Research, as well as the STEM research program. TSU's NASA University Research Center (C-BER) addresses human health concerns related to crewed exploration of space. Programs like TSU's NASA University Research Center (C-BER) and participation in The Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Preparation Program (LSAMP) support undergraduate, graduate and faculty development while helping to increase the number of US citizens receiving degrees in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) fields. The science center also houses the only doctoral degree program in environmental toxicology in Southeast Texas.


=== Spurgeon N. Gray Hall (COPHS) ===
The College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences (COPHS) is housed in the Spurgeon N. Gray Hall.  COPHS has approximately 800 students. The 2016 pharmacy graduates had a 90% first-attempt pass rate on the NAPLEX which was above the national average (85%), third highest in Texas, and highest among HBCUs. TSU is one of only two public HBCUs in the United States with an accredited and comprehensive pharmacy program. COPHS is the first and only in Houston to offer a Master of Science in Health Care Administration degree.


=== Thurgood Marshall School of Law ===
The Thurgood Marshall School of Law (TMSL) is one of six public law schools in Texas and ranks as one of the most diverse law schools in the nation by U.S. News & World Report. TMSL is accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA) and a member-school of The Association of American Law Schools (AALS). Enrollment is at approximately 600 students.
The Texas College for Negroes was initially housed in Austin, Texas but was eventually transferred to Texas Southern University's campus. The creation of the Law School did not have the support of Thurgood Marshall or the NAACP. However, in 1976 now U.S. Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, agreed to name formally the "Law School of Texas Southern University," the "Thurgood Marshall School of Law."


=== Transportation ===

Metropolitan Transit Authority of Harris County (METRO) operates public transportation services, including buses and the METRORail tram service, which serve the university. The METRORail Purple Line station serving the university is Robertson Stadium/UH/TSU station.
In June 2019 Texas Southern University became home to the region's first Shared Autonomous Shuttle in conjunction with a partnership between METRO, TSU and the Houston-Galveston Area Council. The shuttle can carry up to 15 passengers and travels using a pre-programmed route, equipped with a sensor and intelligent vehicle system to detect obstacles and avoid collisions.


== Academics ==

Texas Southern University offers over 100 bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees. Texas Southern is classified by the Carnegie Foundation as an "R2 doctoral university with high research activity".


=== Undergraduate admissions ===
In 2024, Texas Southern University accepted 93.4% of undergraduate applicants, with admission standards considered extremely easy, applicant competition considered very low, and with those enrolled having an average 3.0 high school GPA. The university does not require submission of standardized test scores, but they will be considered when submitted. Those enrolled that submitted test scores had an average 900 SAT score (48% submitting scores) or an average 17 ACT score (18% submitting scores).


=== Schools, colleges, scholastic and research programs ===
The university comprises several schools and colleges along with several scholastic and research programs.

The Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs: Mickey Leland Center, Barbara Jordan Institute, Emergency Management Program, Center for Justice Research
The College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences: RCMI Institute for Biomedical and Health Disparities Research, Center for Cardiovascular Diseases, Center for Human Performance and Material Science, Center of Excellence in Health Disparities Research: Cardiovascular Disease and Stroke
The Thurgood Marshall School of Law: Earl Carl Institute for Legal and Social Justice, Center for Legal Pedagogy, Institute for International and Immigration Law (IIIL), Center for Government
The College of Education: TSU Charter Laboratory School
The College of Science, Engineering, and Technology: National Transportation Security Center of Excellence for Petro-Chemical Transportation (NTSCOE-P), Center for Transportation Training and Research (CTTR), TSU NASA University Research Center for Bionanotechnology and Environmental Research (TSU NASA C-BER), Innovative Transportation Research Institute (ITRI), Houston National Summer Transportation Institute (HNSTI), Research Center in Minority Institution (RCMI) Computational Core: Advanced Computational Simulation Center, Research Center in Minority Institution (RCMI) Computational Core: Data Analysis and Visualization Center, NASA C-BER Fellows Program, NASA C-BER Scholars Program, Houston Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation (H-LSAMP) Program, Science & Engineering Summer Program, Science Technology and Enhancement Program (STEP), Maritime Transportation Management and Security Program, Beyond Traffic Innovation Center and Aviation Science Management which is fully accredited by the Association of Technology, Management, and Applied Engineering (ATMAE), Federal Aviation Administration Part 141approved ground school certificate
The Jesse H. Jones School of Business (AACSB accredited): Economic Development Center, Gerald B. Smith Center for Entrepreneurship and Executive Development, JPMorgan Chase Center for Financial Education, Kase Lawal Center for Global Trade
The School of Communication: The Center for the Radio, Television and Print Media Professional Studies
The College of Liberal Arts and Behavioral Sciences (COLAB): The Thomas F. Freeman Center for Forensic Excellence, The Confucius Institute (education partnership with China)
The College of Transdisciplinary Studies
The Thomas F. Freeman Honors College (formerly the Frederick Douglass Honors Program)
The Graduate School
The Weekend College: Attorney Ricky Anderson Entertainment Law Institute, Mathew Knowles Institute


=== Libraries ===

Texas Southern University's main library is the Library Learning Center. The Library Learning Center is home to the Thomas F. Freeman Honors College, computer labs, study rooms, tutorial services, an African Art Gallery, The Heartman Collection, and many types of valuable archives.
The Thurgood Marshall School of Law building also houses an extensive library.


== Demographics ==

As of fall 2022, approximately 83% of the student body are Texas residents.  The top three feeder states are California (259), Louisiana (209), Georgia (93). The top three countries of origin (outside the U.S.) are Nigeria (58), The Bahamas (36), and Saudi Arabia (15). 64% of the student body identify as female, 36% identify as male.


== Student life ==

Some of TSU's over 180 student organizations include the TSU Royal Court, TSU Cheerleaders, Debate Team, Psi Chi Honor Society, all nine organizations of the National Pan-Hellenic Council, Students in Free Enterprise, Student Business Leadership Organization (SBLO), Living Testimony Gospel Ministry, TSU Dance Company, HER TSU, Women of GOLD, CSL (Caribbean Student Organization), Boys to Men, Campus PALS, Collegiate 100, Hispanic Student Association (HSA), African Student Association (ASA), California Club, Midwest Club, Louisiana Club, Political Science Club, National Society of Black Engineers, Pre-Law Society, Pre-Alumni Association, University Program Council (UPC), and Student Government Association (SGA).


=== Debate team ===
The Texas Southern debate team was founded by professor and coach Thomas Freeman in 1949. Freeman led the team for more than 60 years as the team rose to national prominence, according to his obituary in the New York Times. He is credited for training notable leaders such as former U.S. Congresswoman Barbara Jordan, and civil rights activist Martin Luther King Jr. while serving as a visiting professor at Morehouse College. He retired in 2017 and died on June 6, 2020.


=== Ocean of Soul ===

Texas Southern's marching band, the Ocean of Soul, has won numerous awards and performed at Super Bowls, the Stellar Awards, many parades, as well as NBA and Houston Texans games. The 200-plus-member band alumni include Grammy award-winning jazz saxophonist Kirk Whalum. The Ocean of Soul is complemented by The Motion of The Ocean, a female danceline which was featured on America's Best Dance Crew.


=== Athletics ===

Texas Southern sports teams participate in NCAA Division I (Championship Subdivision for football) in the Southwestern Athletic Conference (SWAC). Texas Southern is part of the Western Division in SWAC divisional sports.
Men's varsity sports include baseball, basketball, football, golf, and track and field. Women's varsity sports include basketball, bowling, cross country, golf, soccer, softball, dance (TSU Tiger Sensations), cheer, track and field, and volleyball.
Texas Southern's most well-known rival is Prairie View A&M.


=== Athletic facilities ===
Shell Energy Stadium – The $95 million 22,000-seat stadium in nearby East Downtown is the permanent home of Tiger Football.
Health and Physical Education Arena (H&PE Arena) – An 8,100-seat multi-purpose arena (largest arena in the SWAC). Built in 1989, it is home to the annual graduation ceremonies, Tiger basketball, Lady Tiger basketball and volleyball.
Alexander Durley Stadium – The 5,500-seat stadium is the home of TSU soccer games and the annual TSU Relays.
TSU Recreation and Wellness Center – Opened in 2005, the TSU Recreation and Wellness Center has served the students of TSU and the Third Ward community. The facility is open to all TSU students, community members and alumni. Serving approximately 5,000 students yearly and community members, amenities included are a full basketball court, indoor track, weight room, dance studio, study/lounge area, swimming pool, and a women's resource center.


==== Tiger and Lady Tiger basketball ====

As of 2024, Texas Southern men's basketball leads the SWAC in tournament titles (11) and made 11 NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament appearances.


==== Tiger football ====

As of 2024, Texas Southern football has won three SWAC titles (1956, 1958, 1968) and one national HBCU title (1958).


==== Tiger baseball ====

The Texas Southern Baseball team competes in the SWAC and plays home games at MacGregor Park. They were back-to-back conference champions in 2017 and 2018. They won the SWAC baseball tournament in 2004, 2008, and 2015. Michael Robertson was hired as head coach in 2009.


==== Tiger volleyball ====
Texas Southern Volleyball competes at the HP&E Arena. Texas Southern University Volleyball won their first SWAC ring in 1989 against Southern University (3–0). Prior to receiving rings, the Volleyball Team won SWAC Championships in 1986 & 1988. Then in 1990 & 1991 they returned with another ring against Prairie View (3–0). The last SWAC championship Lady Tiger Volleyball received was in 1994 against Prairie View (3–0).


==== Tiger softball ====
Texas Southern Softball team competes at Memorial Park in Houston. The Lady Tigers softball team won their first and second SWAC conference championship back to back years in 2014 and 2015. The Lady Tigers then went on to win their third SWAC championship in 2017. The Lady Tigers have also won the western division championship of the conference nine consecutive years. The Lady Tigers are coached by Worley Barker and assisted by Jasmin Hutchinson


=== KTSU 90.9 FM ===

In addition to serving as a training unit for TSU students, the station was established to serve the university at the program level as well as Greater Houston by presenting various types of TSU athletic, educational, cultural and social programs to a primarily listening area within a 10-mile (16 km) radius of the university. A 1973 survey indicated that radio was generally the preferred source of information of African-Americans, particularly those with less than a high school education. By the late 1970s, the station had secured an ample audience and programming increased in scope. At the same time, the station increased its power range from 10 watts to 18,500 watts. According to the Arbitron Rating Service (ARS), KTSU has an audience of 244,700 listeners and is number one overall of Houston and Galveston stations for its Sunday format and its Friday format of Golden Oldies.


== Notable alumni ==


== Notable faculty ==


== See also ==
Black mecca
Third Ward
Emancipation Park (Houston)
History of African Americans in Texas
History of the African Americans in Houston
Riverside Terrace


== Notes ==


== References ==


=== Sources ===
TSU Introduces New Center for Justice Research. Web, 22 Jan. 2018. 


== Further reading ==
King, Otis H. "The Legal Sin: The Creation of Texas Southern University, A Place That Never Should Have Been." Thurgood Marshall Law Review  38 (2012): 13+ online.
Lash, John S. Texas Southern University: From Separation to Special Designation. (1975). online
Pitre, Merline. Born to serve: A history of Texas Southern University (U of Oklahoma Press, 2018) online.
Ponmile, Olonilua. "COVID-19 Changed How We Teach and Learn in 2020-Texas Southern University." Journal of Homeland Security Education 10 (2020): 1-5. online


== External links ==

Official website
Texas Southern Athletics website
Texas Southern University from the Handbook of Texas Online

Parisa Damandan, or Parīsā Damandān Nafīsī (born 1967, Isfahan, Iran) is an Iranian photographer and art historian. 


== Early life and education ==
She received a degree in photography from the University of Tehran. She is the author of Portrait photographs from Isfahan: Faces in transition, 1920-1950, a book illustrating the history of Isfahan in the early 20th century with portrait photographs, which she collected over a period of ten years; the photographs were hard to find because many photo archives in Isfahan had been burned after the enactment of a 1979 law forbidding depictions of unveiled women.
After the 2003 Bam earthquake, Damandan started a project to recover and protect the city's photographic archives. As of 2006, she had recovered over ten thousand negatives, and the project was not yet complete.


== References ==

Nicolás Cirilo Ibáñez Scott (born 11 May 1956) is a Chilean economist and businessman commonly known for having been the owner of the supermarket Líder, a shareholder of Papa John's, and for founding and financing the libertarian think tank Fundación para el Progreso (FPP) and its icon Axel Kaiser. He is also a columnist for newspapers such as El Mercurio and El Líbero.
Ibáñez's participation in the armed forces has been brought up in Chilean politics. Similarly, he told Revista Caras in 2004 that he has "enormous gratitude" for Augusto Pinochet. As a result, he has been attacked by progressive e-newspapers like El Desconcierto (left-wing) or The Clinic (centre-left), who have referred to him as a Pinochetist businessman. Likewise, other centre-left media like El Mostrador have criticized him for his defense of the Pinochet dictatorship and his role with the FPP.


== Biography ==


=== Early life: 1956−1980 ===
Ibáñez was born in Santiago de Chile. After his family settled in England, he attended The Grange School (1961−1969) until he was thirteen. He continued his studies at the Repton School (1970−1974), which influenced his strict personality. Upon his return to Chile, he enrolled as a reserve officer in the Chilean Navy.
In March 1975, he was based in Chile and began to study economics at the School of Business of the Adolfo Ibáñez University (UAI), which was founded by his paternal grandfather. His decision was closely linked to his father's business activities.


=== Spell at D&S: 1981−2014 ===
In 1981, Ibáñez joined to the family business. In the 1980s and 1990s, he became the commercial chair of companies such as Almac, D&S, Líder, and Ekono.
The success of D&S garnered interest from Walmart, which bought the family supermarket company in January 2009. For the five years after the purchase, Nicolás and Felipe maintained the 25.06% of the shares, selling them all to Walmart in 2014.


=== On the "ideas market": 2012−2020 ===
In 2012, Ibáñez founded the Fundación para el Progreso and appointed Axel Kaiser as its CEO as he was finishing his PhD at Heidelberg University.
In 2016, Ibánez declared he wanted to leave Chile.


== References ==


== External links ==
Nicolás Ibáñez on LinkedIn

Murdaa Ghar (House of Corpses) is a Hindi horror movie of Bollywood directed by Kishan Shah and produced by Shakuntala Gohil. This film was released on 16 July 1999 under the banner of Mangla films.


== Cast ==
Shakti Kapoor
Neelam Kothari
Jyoti Rana
Anuradha Sawant
Vinod Tripathi
Anil Nagrath
Satyen Kaul
Raj Premi


== References ==


== External links ==
Murdaa Ghar at IMDb

In mathematics, the Poisson boundary is a probability space associated to a random walk. It is an object designed to encode the asymptotic behaviour of the random walk, i.e. how trajectories diverge when the number of steps goes to infinity. Despite being called a boundary, it is in general a purely measure-theoretical object and not a boundary in the topological sense. However, in the case where the random walk is on a topological space, the Poisson boundary can be related to the Martin boundary, which is an analytic construction yielding a genuine topological boundary. Both boundaries are related to harmonic functions on the space via generalisations of the Poisson formula.
A related construction is the Furstenberg boundary of a semisimple Lie group.


== The case of the hyperbolic plane ==
The Poisson formula states that given a positive harmonic function  
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 on the unit disc 
  
    
      
        
          D
        
        =
        {
        z
        ∈
        
          C
        
        :
        
          |
        
        z
        
          |
        
        <
        1
        }
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {D} =\{z\in \mathbb {C} :|z|<1\}}
  
 (that is, 
  
    
      
        Δ
        f
        =
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Delta f=0}
  
 where 
  
    
      
        Δ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Delta }
  
 is the Laplace–Beltrami operator associated to the Poincaré metric on 
  
    
      
        
          D
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {D} }
  
) there exists a unique measure 
  
    
      
        μ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mu }
  
 on the boundary 
  
    
      
        ∂
        
          D
        
        =
        {
        z
        ∈
        
          C
        
        :
        
          |
        
        z
        
          |
        
        =
        1
        }
      
    
    {\displaystyle \partial \mathbb {D} =\{z\in \mathbb {C} :|z|=1\}}
  
 such that the equality 

  
    
      
        f
        (
        z
        )
        =
        
          ∫
          
            ∂
            
              D
            
          
        
        K
        (
        z
        ,
        ξ
        )
        
        d
        μ
        (
        ξ
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle f(z)=\int _{\partial \mathbb {D} }K(z,\xi )\,d\mu (\xi )}
  
 where 
  
    
      
        K
        (
        z
        ,
        ξ
        )
        =
        
          
            
              1
              −
              
                |
              
              z
              
                
                  |
                
                
                  2
                
              
            
            
              
                |
              
              ξ
              −
              z
              
                
                  |
                
                
                  2
                
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle K(z,\xi )={\frac {1-|z|^{2}}{|\xi -z|^{2}}}}
  
 is the Poisson kernel,
holds for all 
  
    
      
        z
        ∈
        
          D
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle z\in \mathbb {D} }
  
. One way to interpret this is that the functions 
  
    
      
        K
        (
        ⋅
        ,
        ξ
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle K(\cdot ,\xi )}
  
 for 
  
    
      
        ξ
        ∈
        ∂
        
          D
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \xi \in \partial \mathbb {D} }
  
 are up to scaling all the extreme points in the cone of nonnegative harmonic functions. This analytical interpretation of the set 
  
    
      
        ∂
        
          D
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \partial \mathbb {D} }
  
 leads to the more general notion of minimal Martin boundary (which in this case is the full Martin boundary).
This fact can also be interpreted in a probabilistic manner. If 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            t
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W_{t}}
  
 is the Brownian motion on 
  
    
      
        
          D
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {D} }
  
 with the Poincaré Riemannian metric, then the process 
  
    
      
        f
        (
        
          W
          
            t
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle f(W_{t})}
  
 is a continuous-time martingale, and as such converges almost everywhere to a function on the Wiener space of possible (infinite) trajectories for 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            t
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle W_{t}}
  
. Thus the Poisson formula identifies this measured space with the Martin boundary constructed above, and ultimately to 
  
    
      
        ∂
        
          D
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \partial \mathbb {D} }
  
 endowed with the class of Lebesgue measure (note that this identification can be made directly since a path in Wiener space converges almost surely to a point on 
  
    
      
        ∂
        
          D
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \partial \mathbb {D} }
  
). This interpretation of 
  
    
      
        ∂
        
          D
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \partial \mathbb {D} }
  
 as the space of trajectories for a Markov process is a special case of the construction of the Poisson boundary.
Finally, the constructions above can be discretised, i.e. restricted to the random walks on the orbits of a Fuchsian group acting on 
  
    
      
        
          D
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {D} }
  
. This gives an identification of the extremal positive harmonic functions on the group, and to the space of trajectories of the random walk on the group (both with respect to a given probability measure), with the topological/measured space 
  
    
      
        
          D
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {D} }
  
.


== Definition ==


=== The Poisson boundary of a random walk on a discrete group ===
Let 
  
    
      
        G
      
    
    {\displaystyle G}
  
 be a discrete group and 
  
    
      
        μ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mu }
  
 a probability measure on 
  
    
      
        G
      
    
    {\displaystyle G}
  
, which will be used to define a random walk 
  
    
      
        
          X
          
            t
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle X_{t}}
  
 on 
  
    
      
        G
      
    
    {\displaystyle G}
  
 (a discrete-time Markov process whose transition probabilities are 
  
    
      
        p
        (
        x
        ,
        y
        )
        =
        μ
        (
        
          x
          
            −
            1
          
        
        y
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle p(x,y)=\mu (x^{-1}y)}
  
); the measure 
  
    
      
        μ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mu }
  
 is called the step distribution for the random walk. Let 
  
    
      
        m
      
    
    {\displaystyle m}
  
 be another measure on 
  
    
      
        G
      
    
    {\displaystyle G}
  
, which will be the initial state for the random walk. The space 
  
    
      
        
          G
          
            
              N
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle G^{\mathbb {N} }}
  
 of trajectories for 
  
    
      
        
          X
          
            t
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle X_{t}}
  
 is endowed with a measure 
  
    
      
        
          
            P
          
          
            m
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {P} _{m}}
  
 whose marginales are 
  
    
      
        m
        ∗
        
          μ
          
            ∗
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle m*\mu ^{*n}}
  
 (where 
  
    
      
        ∗
      
    
    {\displaystyle *}
  
 denotes convolution of measures; this is the distribution of the random walk after 
  
    
      
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle n}
  
 steps). There is also an equivalence relation 
  
    
      
        ∼
      
    
    {\displaystyle \sim }
  
 on 
  
    
      
        
          G
          
            
              N
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle G^{\mathbb {N} }}
  
, which identifies 
  
    
      
        (
        
          x
          
            t
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (x_{t})}
  
 to 
  
    
      
        (
        
          y
          
            t
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (y_{t})}
  
 if there exists 
  
    
      
        n
        ,
        m
        ∈
        
          N
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle n,m\in \mathbb {N} }
  
 such that 
  
    
      
        
          x
          
            t
            +
            n
          
        
        =
        
          y
          
            t
            +
            m
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle x_{t+n}=y_{t+m}}
  
 for all 
  
    
      
        t
        ≥
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle t\geq 0}
  
 (the two trajectories have the same "tail"). The Poisson boundary of 
  
    
      
        (
        G
        ,
        μ
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (G,\mu )}
  
 is then the measured space 
  
    
      
        Γ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Gamma }
  
 obtained as the quotient of 
  
    
      
        (
        
          G
          
            
              N
            
          
        
        ,
        
          
            P
          
          
            m
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (G^{\mathbb {N} },\mathbb {P} _{m})}
  
 by the equivalence relation 
  
    
      
        ∼
      
    
    {\displaystyle \sim }
  
.
If 
  
    
      
        θ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \theta }
  
 is the initial distribution of a random walk with step distribution 
  
    
      
        μ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mu }
  
 then the measure 
  
    
      
        
          ν
          
            θ
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \nu _{\theta }}
  
 on 
  
    
      
        Γ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Gamma }
  
 obtained as the pushforward of 
  
    
      
        
          
            P
          
          
            θ
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {P} _{\theta }}
  
. It is a stationary measure for 
  
    
      
        (
        G
        ,
        μ
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (G,\mu )}
  
, meaning that for every measurable set 
  
    
      
        A
      
    
    {\displaystyle A}
  
 in the Poisson boundary 

  
    
      
        
          ∫
          
            G
          
        
        ν
        (
        
          g
          
            −
            1
          
        
        A
        )
        μ
        (
        g
        )
        =
        
          ν
          
            θ
          
        
        (
        A
        )
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle \int _{G}\nu (g^{-1}A)\mu (g)=\nu _{\theta }(A).}
  

It is possible to give an implicit definition of the Poisson boundary as the maximal 
  
    
      
        G
      
    
    {\displaystyle G}
  
-set with a 
  
    
      
        (
        G
        ,
        μ
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (G,\mu )}
  
-stationary measure 
  
    
      
        ν
      
    
    {\displaystyle \nu }
  
, satisfying the additional condition that 
  
    
      
        (
        
          X
          
            t
          
        
        
          )
          
            ∗
          
        
        ν
      
    
    {\displaystyle (X_{t})_{*}\nu }
  
 almost surely weakly converges to a Dirac mass.


=== The Poisson formula ===
Let 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 be a 
  
    
      
        μ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mu }
  
-harmonic function on 
  
    
      
        G
      
    
    {\displaystyle G}
  
, meaning that 
  
    
      
        
          ∑
          
            h
            ∈
            G
          
        
        f
        (
        g
        h
        )
        μ
        (
        h
        )
        =
        f
        (
        g
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \sum _{h\in G}f(gh)\mu (h)=f(g)}
  
. Then the random variable 
  
    
      
        f
        (
        
          X
          
            t
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle f(X_{t})}
  
 is a discrete-time martingale and so it converges almost surely. Denote by 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              f
              ^
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\hat {f}}}
  
 the function on 
  
    
      
        Γ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Gamma }
  
 obtained by taking the limit of the values of 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 along a trajectory (this is defined almost everywhere on 
  
    
      
        
          G
          
            
              N
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle G^{\mathbb {N} }}
  
 and shift-invariant). Let 
  
    
      
        x
        ∈
        G
      
    
    {\displaystyle x\in G}
  
 and let 
  
    
      
        
          ν
          
            x
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \nu _{x}}
  
 be the measure obtained by the construction above with 
  
    
      
        θ
        =
        
          δ
          
            x
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \theta =\delta _{x}}
  
 (the Dirac mass at 
  
    
      
        x
      
    
    {\displaystyle x}
  
). If 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 is either positive or bounded then 
  
    
      
        
          
            
              f
              ^
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\hat {f}}}
  
 is as well and we have the Poisson formula:

  
    
      
        f
        (
        x
        )
        =
        
          ∫
          
            Γ
          
        
        
          
            
              f
              ^
            
          
        
        (
        γ
        )
        
        d
        
          ν
          
            x
          
        
        (
        γ
        )
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle f(x)=\int _{\Gamma }{\hat {f}}(\gamma )\,d\nu _{x}(\gamma ).}
  

This establishes a bijection between 
  
    
      
        μ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mu }
  
-harmonic bounded functions and essentially bounded measurable functions on 
  
    
      
        Γ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Gamma }
  
. In particular the Poisson boundary of 
  
    
      
        (
        G
        ,
        μ
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle (G,\mu )}
  
 is trivial, that is reduced to a point, if and only if the only bounded 
  
    
      
        μ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mu }
  
-harmonic functions on 
  
    
      
        G
      
    
    {\displaystyle G}
  
 are constant.


=== General definition ===
The general setting is that of a Markov operator on a measured space, a notion which generalises the Markov operator 
  
    
      
        f
        ↦
        f
        ∗
        μ
      
    
    {\displaystyle f\mapsto f*\mu }
  
 associated to a random walk. Much of the theory can be developed in this abstract and very general setting.


== The Martin boundary ==


=== Martin boundary of a discrete group ===
Let 
  
    
      
        G
        ,
        μ
      
    
    {\displaystyle G,\mu }
  
 be a random walk on a discrete group. Let 
  
    
      
        
          p
          
            n
          
        
        (
        x
        ,
        y
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle p_{n}(x,y)}
  
 be the probability to get from 
  
    
      
        x
      
    
    {\displaystyle x}
  
 to 
  
    
      
        y
      
    
    {\displaystyle y}
  
 in 
  
    
      
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle n}
  
 steps, i.e. 
  
    
      
        
          μ
          
            ∗
            n
          
        
        (
        
          x
          
            −
            1
          
        
        y
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mu ^{*n}(x^{-1}y)}
  
. The Green kernel is by definition:

  
    
      
        
          
            G
          
        
        (
        x
        ,
        y
        )
        =
        
          ∑
          
            n
            ≥
            1
          
        
        
          p
          
            n
          
        
        (
        x
        ,
        y
        )
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {G}}(x,y)=\sum _{n\geq 1}p_{n}(x,y).}
  

If the walk is transient then this series is convergent for all 
  
    
      
        x
        ,
        y
      
    
    {\displaystyle x,y}
  
. Fix a point 
  
    
      
        o
        ∈
        G
      
    
    {\displaystyle o\in G}
  
 and define the Martin kernel by: 

  
    
      
        
          
            
              K
            
          
          
            o
          
        
        (
        x
        ,
        y
        )
        =
        
          
            
              
                
                  G
                
              
              (
              x
              ,
              y
              )
            
            
              
                
                  G
                
              
              (
              o
              ,
              y
              )
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {K}}_{o}(x,y)={\frac {{\mathcal {G}}(x,y)}{{\mathcal {G}}(o,y)}}}
  
. 
The embedding 
  
    
      
        y
        ↦
        
          
            
              K
            
          
          
            o
          
        
        (
        ⋅
        ,
        y
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle y\mapsto {\mathcal {K}}_{o}(\cdot ,y)}
  
 has a relatively compact image for the topology of pointwise convergence, and the Martin compactification is the closure of this image. A point 
  
    
      
        γ
        ∈
        Γ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \gamma \in \Gamma }
  
 is usually represented by the notation 
  
    
      
        
          
            K
          
        
        (
        ⋅
        ,
        γ
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {K}}(\cdot ,\gamma )}
  
.
The Martin kernels are positive harmonic functions and every positive harmonic function can be expressed as an integral of functions on the boundary, that is for every positive harmonic function there is a measure 
  
    
      
        
          ν
          
            o
            ,
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \nu _{o,f}}
  
 on 
  
    
      
        Γ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Gamma }
  
 such that a Poisson-like formula holds:

  
    
      
        f
        (
        x
        )
        =
        ∫
        
          
            
              K
            
          
          
            o
          
        
        (
        x
        ,
        γ
        )
        
        d
        
          ν
          
            o
            ,
            f
          
        
        (
        γ
        )
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle f(x)=\int {\mathcal {K}}_{o}(x,\gamma )\,d\nu _{o,f}(\gamma ).}
  

The measures 
  
    
      
        
          ν
          
            o
            ,
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \nu _{o,f}}
  
 are supported on the minimal Martin boundary, whose elements can also be characterised by being minimal. A positive harmonic function 
  
    
      
        u
      
    
    {\displaystyle u}
  
 is said to be minimal if for any harmonic function 
  
    
      
        v
      
    
    {\displaystyle v}
  
 with 
  
    
      
        0
        ≤
        v
        ≤
        u
      
    
    {\displaystyle 0\leq v\leq u}
  
 there exists 
  
    
      
        c
        ∈
        [
        0
        ,
        1
        ]
      
    
    {\displaystyle c\in [0,1]}
  
 such that 
  
    
      
        v
        =
        c
        u
      
    
    {\displaystyle v=cu}
  
.
There is actually a whole family of Martin compactifications. Define the Green generating series as

  
    
      
        
          
            
              G
            
          
          
            r
          
        
        (
        x
        ,
        y
        )
        =
        
          ∑
          
            n
            ≥
            1
          
        
        
          p
          
            n
          
        
        (
        x
        ,
        y
        )
        
          r
          
            n
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {G}}_{r}(x,y)=\sum _{n\geq 1}p_{n}(x,y)r^{n}.}
  

Denote by 
  
    
      
        R
      
    
    {\displaystyle R}
  
 the radius of convergence of this power series
and define for 
  
    
      
        1
        ≤
        r
        ≤
        R
      
    
    {\displaystyle 1\leq r\leq R}
  
 the 
  
    
      
        r
      
    
    {\displaystyle r}
  
-Martin kernel by

  
    
      
        
          
            
              K
            
          
          
            o
            ,
            r
          
        
        (
        x
        ,
        y
        )
        =
        
          
            
              
                
                  
                    G
                  
                
                
                  r
                
              
              (
              x
              ,
              y
              )
            
            
              
                
                  
                    G
                  
                
                
                  r
                
              
              (
              o
              ,
              y
              )
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\mathcal {K}}_{o,r}(x,y)={\frac {{\mathcal {G}}_{r}(x,y)}{{\mathcal {G}}_{r}(o,y)}}}
  
.
The closure of the embedding 
  
    
      
        y
        ↦
        
          
            
              K
            
          
          
            o
            ,
            r
          
        
        (
        ⋅
        ,
        y
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle y\mapsto {\mathcal {K}}_{o,r}(\cdot ,y)}
  
 is called the 
  
    
      
        r
      
    
    {\displaystyle r}
  
-Martin compactification.


=== Martin boundary of a Riemannian manifold ===
For a Riemannian manifold the Martin boundary is constructed, when it exists, in the same way as above, using the Green function of the Laplace–Beltrami operator 
  
    
      
        Δ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Delta }
  
. In this case there is again a whole family of Martin compactifications associated to the operators 
  
    
      
        Δ
        +
        λ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Delta +\lambda }
  
 for 
  
    
      
        0
        ≤
        λ
        ≤
        
          λ
          
            0
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle 0\leq \lambda \leq \lambda _{0}}
  
 where 
  
    
      
        
          λ
          
            0
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \lambda _{0}}
  
 is the bottom of the spectrum. Examples where this construction can be used to define a compactification are bounded domains in the plane and symmetric spaces of non-compact type.


=== The relationship between Martin and Poisson boundaries ===
The measure 
  
    
      
        
          ν
          
            o
            ,
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \nu _{o,1}}
  
 corresponding to the constant function is called the harmonic measure on the Martin boundary. With this measure the Martin boundary is isomorphic to the Poisson boundary.


== Examples ==


=== Nilpotent groups ===
The Poisson and Martin boundaries are trivial for symmetric random walks on nilpotent groups. On the other hand, when the random walk is non-centered, the study of the full Martin boundary, including the minimal functions, is far less conclusive.


=== Lie groups and discrete subgroups ===
For random walks on a semisimple Lie group (with step distribution absolutely continuous with respect to the Haar measure) the Poisson boundary is equal to the Furstenberg boundary. The Poisson boundary of the Brownian motion on the associated symmetric space is also the Furstenberg boundary. The full Martin boundary is also well-studied in these cases and can always be described in a geometric manner. For example, for groups of rank one (for example the isometry groups of hyperbolic spaces) the full Martin boundary is the same as the minimal Martin boundary (the situation in higher-rank groups is more complicated).
The Poisson boundary of a Zariski-dense subgroup of a semisimple Lie group, for example a lattice, is also equal to the Furstenberg boundary of the group.


=== Hyperbolic groups ===
For random walks on a hyperbolic group, under the finite entropy assumption on the step distribution which always hold for a simple walk (a more general condition is that the first moment be finite) the Poisson boundary is always equal to the Gromov boundary when equipped with the hitting probability measure. For example, the Poisson boundary of a free group is the space of ends of its Cayley tree. The identification of the full Martin boundary is more involved; in case the random walk has finite range (the step distribution is supported on a finite set) the Martin boundary coincides with the minimal Martin boundary and both coincide with the Gromov boundary.


== Notes ==


== References ==
Ballmann, Werner; Ledrappier, François (1994). "The Poisson boundary for rank one manifolds and their cocompact lattices". Forum Math. Vol. 6, no. 3. pp. 301–313. MR 1269841.
Furstenberg, Harry (1963). "A Poisson formula for semi-simple Lie groups". Ann. of Math. 2. Vol. 77. pp. 335–386. MR 0146298.
Guivarc'h, Yves; Ji, Lizhen; Taylor, John C. (1998). Compactifications of symmetric spaces. Birkhäuser.
Kaimanovich, Vadim A. (1996). "Boundaries of invariant Markov operators: the identification problem". In Pollicott, Mark; Schmidt, Klaus (eds.). Ergodic theory of Zd actions (Warwick, 1993–1994). London Math. Soc. Lecture Note Ser. Vol. 228. Cambridge Univ. Press, Cambridge. pp. 127–176. MR 1411218.
Kaimanovich, Vadim A. (2000). "The Poisson formula for groups with hyperbolic properties". Ann. of Math. 2. Vol. 152. pp. 659–692. MR 1815698.

Matthias Lüthen (born 16 December 1980) is a German businessman and racing driver. He is the founder and managing director of real estate agency Lüthen & Co. Immobilien, and last competed in the Prototype Cup Germany driving a Duqueine M30 - D08 LMP3 for Mühlner Motorsport.


== Racing record ==


=== Racing career summary ===

† As Lüthen was a guest driver, he was ineligible for points.
* Season still in progress.


=== Complete Formula Renault Eurocup results ===
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

† As Lüthen was a guest driver, he was ineligible for points


=== Complete Euroformula Open Championship results ===
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)


=== Complete F3 Asian Championship results ===
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)


=== Complete Asian Le Mans Series results ===
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)


=== Complete Prototype Cup Germany results ===
(key) (Races in bold indicate pole position) (Races in italics indicate fastest lap)

* Season still in progress.


== References ==


== External links ==
Matthias Lüthen career summary at DriverDB.com

Janes Island State Park is a Maryland state park on the Chesapeake Bay lying adjacent to the city of Crisfield in Somerset County, Maryland. The park features some 30 miles (48 km) of marked water trails through the island's salt marsh leading to isolated pristine beaches. The park is managed by the Maryland Department of Natural Resources.


== History ==
Janes Island State Park was created in 1963. Between 1965 and 1978, the Maryland General Assembly authorized funding of $1,000,000 for land acquisition and site improvements including beach erosion control measures and construction of camping and picnicking facilities.


== Activities and amenities ==
The park features a conference center, campground, rental cabins, fishing and crabbing, boat launch, boat slips, and canoe and kayak rentals. Canoe trails lead to a 7-mile-long white sandy beach on Tangier Sound and the Chesapeake Bay.


== References ==


== External links ==

Janes Island State Park Maryland Department of Natural Resources

Great Swamp may refer to several places:


== United States ==
Great Baehre Swamp, New York
Great Black Swamp, Ohio
Great Cypress Swamp, Delaware and Maryland
Great Dismal Swamp, Virginia and North Carolina
Great Swamp (New York), New York
Great Swamp Fight, southern Rhode Island
Great Swamp Brook, New Jersey
Great Swamp National Wildlife Refuge, New Jersey
Great Swamp, a former wetland in Massachusetts, part of which is now the Alewife Brook Reservation


== New Zealand ==
Great Moss Swamp

Sturgis is a home rule-class city in Union County, Kentucky, United States. As of the 2020 census, Sturgis had a population of 1,735. Located in northwest Kentucky, the city was founded in 1890 and named for Samuel Sturgis, who owned the land now occupied by the city. 
The town is known within the motorcycle community for the Kentucky Bike Rally, previously known as the Little Sturgis Bike Rally. The name change came as a result of a lawsuit from Sturgis, South Dakota, regarding the use of the name Sturgis, despite both communities having the same name.


== History ==
The area surrounding what would become Sturgis was first settled by American Revolutionary War officers, mostly from Virginia, who had received bounty land for their service. The History of Union County, published in 1886 by The Courier Co., says, "The county had its aristocrats but the [Civil] War had a decidedly leveling tendency yet, there is a tolerably well defined line still marking the society of the county into different sets."
Sturgis was founded the same year as a company town by the Cumberland Land and Iron Company within its coal-mining development. The name derives from either Samuel P. Sturgis, who originally owned the townsite, or for Alida Livingston Sturgis (Samuel's sister), who was married to the president and general manager of the Ohio Valley Railroad Company. The community incorporated as a town on May 3, 1890, with population of 327. The town was reclassified as a city in the 1920s.


== Geography ==
Sturgis is located at 37°32′54″N 87°59′4″W (37.548269, -87.984535).
According to the United States Census Bureau, the city has a total area of 1.5 square miles (3.9 km2), all land.


== Demographics ==


=== 2020 census ===
As of the 2020 census, Sturgis had a population of 1,735. The median age was 41.8 years. 23.3% of residents were under the age of 18 and 20.7% of residents were 65 years of age or older. For every 100 females there were 89.8 males, and for every 100 females age 18 and over there were 83.8 males age 18 and over.
0.0% of residents lived in urban areas, while 100.0% lived in rural areas.
There were 766 households in Sturgis, of which 30.3% had children under the age of 18 living in them. Of all households, 41.5% were married-couple households, 17.8% were households with a male householder and no spouse or partner present, and 32.9% were households with a female householder and no spouse or partner present. About 32.4% of all households were made up of individuals and 15.6% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older.
There were 885 housing units, of which 13.4% were vacant. The homeowner vacancy rate was 1.7% and the rental vacancy rate was 12.9%.


=== 2000 census ===
As of the census of 2000, there were 2,030 people, 854 households, and 578 families residing in the city. The population density was 1,343.2 inhabitants per square mile (518.6/km2). There were 973 housing units at an average density of 643.8 per square mile (248.6/km2). The racial makeup of the city was 88.47% White, 9.66% African American, 0.39% Native American, 0.15% Asian, 0.10% from other races, and 1.23% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 1.23% of the population.
There were 854 households, out of which 30.4% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 48.4% were married couples living together, 15.0% had a female householder with no husband present, and 32.3% were non-families. 31.0% of all households were made up of individuals, and 18.3% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.34 and the average family size was 2.90.
In the city, the population was spread out, with 24.3% under the age of 18, 8.8% from 18 to 24, 24.3% from 25 to 44, 23.4% from 45 to 64, and 19.1% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 39 years. For every 100 females, there were 81.3 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 79.1 males.
The median income for a household in the city was $28,664, and the median income for a family was $34,922. Males had a median income of $30,435 versus $18,295 for females. The per capita income for the city was $14,124. About 13.7% of families and 16.0% of the population were below the poverty line, including 19.7% of those under age 18 and 16.9% of those age 65 or over.


== Education ==
Public education in Sturgis is administered by Union County Public Schools.  The district operates Sturgis Elementary School, Union County Middle School, and Union County High School.
Sturgis has a lending library, a branch of the Union County Public Library.


== Climate ==
The climate in this area is characterized by hot, humid summers and generally mild to cool winters.  According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Sturgis has a humid subtropical climate, abbreviated "Cfa" on climate maps.


== References ==

Oh my gosh may refer to:


== Songs ==
"Oh My Gosh" (Basement Jaxx song), 2005
"OMG (Oh My Gosh)", by Sabrina Washington, 2010
"OMG" (Usher song), or "Oh My Gosh", 2010
"Oh My Gosh!", by AlphaBat, 2014
"Oh My Gosh", by Boy Story, 2019
"Oh My Gosh", by Machel Montano and Xtatik from Here Comes the Band, 2000
"Oh My Gosh", by MC Skepta from Microphone Champion, 2009
"Oh My Gosh", by Nature, 2020
"Oh My Gosh", by Seo In-young, 2011
"Oh My Gosh", by Yemi Alade from Woman of Steel, 2019
"Oh My Gosh", by Yung6ix, 2011


== Other uses ==
Oh My Gosh! Tour, by comedian Charlie Berens


== See also ==
Gosh (disambiguation)
Oh My (disambiguation)
Oh My God (disambiguation)
OMG (disambiguation)
Euphemism
Gosh darn
Minced oath

WKEG (1030 AM) is a non-commercial radio station licensed to Sterling Heights, Michigan, United States, and serving Metro Detroit. It is owned by Relevant Radio and runs its national Catholic format. WKEG only operates during the daytime hours but is relayed over four FM translator around the clock: 94.3 W232CA and 104.7 W284BQ in Detroit, 94.1 W231CV in Holly and 103.1 W276DB in Rochester Hills.


== History ==
The station signed on the air on October 26, 1988. It was the seventh station owned and operated by Family Life Communications (commonly referred to as FLR or Family Life Radio). It took the call sign WUFL. WUFL carried Family Life's Christian radio programming.
In November 2022, Family Life Radio announced would sell WUFL and its four FM translators to Relevant Radio, which is a Catholic broadcaster based in Wisconsin. The deal included the land that houses WUFL's transmitter but not the call sign, which would be transferred to another Family Life Radio property.
The sale to Relevant Radio was consummated on February 28, 2023, at a price of $3.1 million. On March 2, 2023, AM 1030 changed its call sign to WKEG. In June 2023, Family Life Radio announced it would be buying an FM station in Detroit, 93.1 WDRQ. The sale was completed and the WUFL call letters were reassigned to the Detroit FM station.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Facility details for Facility ID 20629 (WKEG)   in the FCC Licensing and Management System
WKEG in Nielsen Audio's AM station database
Facility details for Facility ID 148503 (W231CV)   in the FCC Licensing and Management System
W231CV at FCCdata.org
Facility details for Facility ID 152374 (W232CA)   in the FCC Licensing and Management System
W232CA at FCCdata.org
Facility details for Facility ID 142079 (W276DB)   in the FCC Licensing and Management System
W276DB at FCCdata.org
Facility details for Facility ID 143173 (W284BQ)   in the FCC Licensing and Management System
W284BQ at FCCdata.org

Fort Algiers is a 1953 American adventure film directed by Lesley Selander and written by Theodore St John. The film reused action sequences from Outpost in Morocco (1949) and starred Yvonne De Carlo, Carlos Thompson, Raymond Burr, Leif Erickson, Anthony Caruso, John Dehner, Robert Boon and Henry Corden. The film was released on July 15, 1953, by United Artists.


== Plot ==
A female secret agent is sent to French North Africa posing as a night club singer to investigate the massacre of a French Foreign Legion outpost.  She discovers a treacherous leader planning an attack on strategic oil fields.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
In 1952 Yvonne De Carlo announced she and her agent Paul Kohner would form their own production company, Vancouver Productions. They said their first film would be an adventure story which would co star Carlos Thompson, an actor de Carlo met on the set of a movie in South America and recommended him for the male lead.
In November 1952 it was announced the film would be called Fort Courageous and would be made by Atlantic Productions, the company of Joseph Armolieff. It was based on a story by Frederick Stephani and screenplay by Theodore St John. Filming started 15 December 1952. De Carlo said she had her own money in the film.


== References ==


== External links ==
Fort Algiers at IMDb
Fort Algiers at TCMDB
Fort Algiers at BFI

Cygnet Estuary Conservation Park is a protected area located on the west coast of Nepean Bay on Kangaroo Island in South Australia about 5 kilometres (3.1 miles) west southwest of Kingscote.  It was proclaimed under the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1972 in 2014 on the basis that some existing crown land 'should be protected and preserved for the purpose of conserving any wildlife and the natural features of the land'.  The Cygnet Estuary which is considered to be a significant wetland is located within the boundaries of the conservation park.


== See also ==
Cygnet River
Cygnet River, South Australia


== References ==

Noah Hallett (born September 9, 1997) is a Canadian professional football defensive back. He has played for the Winnipeg Blue Bombers of the Canadian Football League (CFL).


== University career ==
Hallett played U Sports football for the McMaster Marauders from 2016 to 2019.


== Professional career ==
Hallett was drafted by the Winnipeg Blue Bombers in the second round (18th overall) of the 2020 CFL draft. However, he did not play in 2020 due to the cancellation of the 2020 CFL season. Instead, he signed with the team on January 7, 2021, and made his professional debut in the team's opening game on August 5, 2021, against the Hamilton Tiger-Cats. He played in nine regular season games in 2021, starting in two, where he had one defensive tackle, four special teams tackles, and one fumble recovery. After suffering a knee injury on November 13, 2021, Hallett was on the injured list when the Blue Bombers defeated the Hamilton Tiger-Cats in the 108th Grey Cup.
In 2022, Hallett began the first 12 games on the injured list as he rehabilitated his knee injury that he suffered from the previous year. He played in two regular season games where he had two special teams tackles. On May 13, 2023, Hallett was released by the Blue Bombers after failing a physical examination. Hallett returned to the Bombers on October 17, 2023, but did not play in a regular season game. He re-signed with the team on February 1, 2024.
Hallett played in 12 regular season games in 2024 where he had six special teams tackles. He also made his post-season debut as he played in the West Final win over the Saskatchewan Roughriders. He was on the injured list for the 111th Grey Cup game where the Blue Bombers lost to the Toronto Argonauts. He became a free agent in the following offseason on February 11, 2025.


== Personal life ==
Hallett's brother, Nick, was drafted by the Blue Bombers in the seventh round of the 2019 CFL draft.


== References ==


== External links ==
Winnipeg Blue Bombers profile
McMaster Marauders profile

The School of Hospitality Business is a department-level school within the Eli Broad College of Business at Michigan State University.
Founded in 1927 as the nation's first business-based hotel training course, the School of Hospitality Business has 350 undergraduate students and 22 faculty members (endowed, tenured, and adjunct). The School of Hospitality Business is ranked #1 US Public Hospitality Business Program (College Choice, 2023); #2 US Public Program (the Edvocate, 2023); #3 Hospitality Management Degree Program (Successful Student, 2023); and #4 Hospitality Management Program in the World (CEO World, 2023). Students in the School can earn more than $300,000 each academic year in merit-based scholarships.


== History ==
MSU's School of Hospitality Business was founded in 1927 when the Education Committee of the Michigan Hotel Association met to discuss development of a college-level hotel management school, after which Michigan State approved a hotel training course. When classes started, there were 18 students majoring in the hotel training course.
In 1947, the W. K. Kellogg Foundation granted $1.4 million for construction of the Kellogg Hotel and Conference Center.  That year, the program was also divided into three major areas of concentration: hotel management, restaurant management, and institutional management.
In 1951, Kellogg Center for Continuing Education was opened. The first general manager was Weldon Garrison, a 1946 graduate of The School of Hospitality Business. The school's offices were moved to the Kellogg Center, enrollment increased to approximately 300, and the Les Gourmets dinner-dance was founded as annual event.
In the 1960s, the Eppley Foundation granted the university $1.5 million to build the Eugene C. Eppley Center for Graduate Studies in Hotel, Restaurant and Institutional Management. The school is still housed in this building. The School became the first program in the country to offer a Master of Business Administration (MBA) degree in hotel, restaurant and institutional management, and enrollment reached 550.
In the 1980s, CAREER EXPO, the nation's leading hospitality career fair, was founded. Enrollment eclipsed 1,000. Dr. Ronald F. Cichy, an alumnus of the school, was appointed director of the school. The Visiting Distinguished Chefs Series was founded.
In the 1990s, the Hilton Lecture Series was founded, the school’s internship office was renamed the Student and Industry Resource Center (SIRC) and was endowed for $1 million, the First Annual Hospitality Association/Alumni Association Auction was held in the Kellogg Center, the Michael L. Minor Master of Science in Food Service Management was launched as a complement to the school’s MBA in hospitality business, and the Hospitality Association offered its first Vegas Night.
In the 2000s, the school became independent within the Eli Broad College of Business, the school's Alumni Association published 75th anniversary history book The Legacy of the Leader, the master's degree in hospitality business and the graduate specialization in hospitality business were launched, and faculty developed and launched the Hospitality Business Real Estate and Development Specialization for undergraduates.
In 2014, the school launched 12 mini-courses that will be only available online, such as "Introduction to Hospitality and Information Systems," "Private Club and Gaming Operations," and "Foodservice and Lodging Operations." "These mini-courses feature the same content found in the three full 8-week courses, enabling students to complete the same Management Certificate in the Business of Hospitality credential in smaller segments.


== Programs ==
The School of Hospitality Business offers the following programs:

Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) in Hospitality Business
Minor in Hospitality Business Real Estate


== Faculty ==
Among universities specifically with degree-granting hospitality programs, MSU was ranked ninth (or seventh among such universities in the United States), in terms of weighted-publication-count (2002-2006) in English-language research journals specific to the hospitality industry.  The School’s faculty was ranked number one by the Journal of Hospitality & Tourism Research in “mean productivity” from 1992–2001, and in having "the most intensely" contributing authors amongst the Top 20 universities.  In another study, reported on by the Journal of Hospitality & Tourism Education, a half dozen faculty members of The School of Hospitality Business were named among “Hospitality’s Most Influential Scholars.”  The faculty also received the 2006 Richard J. Lewis Quality of Excellence Award for outstanding leadership.
Faculty include:

Dr. Jeff Beck, an associate professor, and teaches courses in sales, event planning, and revenue management. His research interests include revenue management, sales management and ethics in hospitality.
Dr. JaeMin Cha, an associate professor of foodservice management. Her research focuses on service climate in foodservice operations, sustainability, food safety, and emotional intelligence. Her collaborative handwashing study has been covered widely in the numerous media outlets.
Dr. Seung Hyun Kim, an associate professor, teaching hospitality research. He specializes in hospitality marketing, research methods, and service leadership. His extensive research techniques come in part from his extensive international work experiences.
Dr. Bonnie Knutson, an authority on consumer lifestyle and buying trends, strategic marketing, and marketing research. She is currently the editor of the Journal of Hospitality and Marketing, a national scholar of the National Advertising Foundation, a winner of the Golden Key Teaching Excellence Award, and the coveted Withrow Award for excellence in teaching and research.
Dr. Lu Zhang, an associate professor, teaching information technology and hospitality business strategy courses. Her research focuses on two areas: hospitality information technology and marketing.


== Students ==
Students graduate with a business degree and develop leadership skills through two required internships, participation in nine student clubs, and three major annual events.

Career Expo, one of the longest-running career fairs on campus. Hospitality companies attend this fall semester event to recruit students as interns and permanent employees.
Destination Auction, fundraising event on behalf of the student Hospitality Association and The School's Alumni Association. A portion of the proceeds of proceeds are shared with a local charity.
Les Gourmets, a black-tie (optional), seven-course reception and dinner each spring that showcases the talents of hundreds of students.
Undergraduate students have the opportunity to join the Spartan Sponsors Mentor Program, which pairs each student with an alumnus/a who shares the student's career interest to provide advice, knowledge, support and shared connections.


== See also ==
Ranking of university programs in Hospitality Management


== References ==


== External links ==
The School of Hospitality Business official website

Robert, Rob or Bob McCullough may refer to:

Bob McCullough (sports administrator) (1931–2017), Australian sports administrator
Bob McCullough (American football) (born 1940), American football player
Bob McCullough (basketball), American basketball player
Bob McCullough (cricketer) (1943–2020), New Zealand cricketer
Robert McCullough (born August 6, 1960), Australian former singer
Rob McCullough (born 1977), American mixed martial artist


== See also ==
Bob McCullogh (1892–1972), English footballer
Robert McCulloch (disambiguation)

Banbridge Town Football Club, referred to as Banbridge Town, is an intermediate football club from Northern Ireland playing in the NIFL Premier Intermediate League. The club are nicknamed "The Town", and have played in the lower divisions of Northern Irish football for much of their existence. Banbridge Town are a part of the Mid-Ulster Football Association. They compete in the Irish Cup.


== Brief History ==
The club, founded in 1947, hails from Banbridge, County Down and plays its home matches at Crystal Park. Club colours are red and black. In 2014, the club merged with Banbridge A.F.C. The 2016/17 season saw Banbridge Town's reserve team win the South Down Development League.
A high point of the clubs recent history came in 2018, when they defeated Dollingstown 4-0 to win the Bob Radcliffe Cup for the third time at Lakeview Park on Boxing Day.
The club was managed by Frankie Wilson from 2021 until his death in 2022. The club is currently managed by former Longford Town u20s manager Robbie Rock, following the resignation of David McCullough, owing to financial issues at the club.
The club has had many players go on to play in the top tier of football in Northern Ireland, including Paul Evans (Portadown), Roy Rea (Glentoran), Ryan Moffatt (Dungannon Swifts), Stephen Teggart (Glenavon & Portadown) and Barry Tumilty (Ballymena United).
In 2025, the club would have a difficult spell in NIFL Premier Intermediate League, following the announcement of the club experiencing significant financial issues. As such, recently appointed ex-Portadown midfielder David McCullough resigned as manager, and Dubliner Robbie Rock was appointed.
During that season, whilst working with a young group of players, with many coming from the Dublin area, the Town would experience heavy defeats to Rathfriland Rangers and Dollingstown, losing 9-0 and 10-0 respectively. The club would also be given a 12-point deduction and a £1,000 fine from NIFL for undisclosed payments made to players. This means that the club is highly likely to drop into regional football for the first time since 2004.


== Current squad ==

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


== Honours ==


=== Senior honours ===
Mid-Ulster Cup: 5
1948–49, 1949–50 (shared), 1958–59, 1973–74, 1979–80


=== Intermediate honours ===
Irish League B Division: 1
1955–56
Irish Intermediate Cup: 1
1985–86
George Wilson Cup: 1
1976–77
Louis Moore Cup: 2
1955–56, 1967–68
Bob Radcliffe Cup: 3
1980–81, 2010–11, 2018–19
Alan Wilson Memorial Cup: 1
1986–87


== References ==


== External links ==

Alfred L. Buchan (March 4, 1847 – February 17, 1905) was an American physician and politician serving in the Wisconsin State Assembly.
Born in what is now the town of Dover, Racine County, Wisconsin, Buchan received his Master of Arts degree from Monmouth College and then graduated from Rush Medical College and Bellevue Hospital and College.
He then practiced medicine in Union Grove, Wisconsin and Racine, Wisconsin. In 1889, Buchan served in the Wisconsin State Assembly as a Republican.
Buchan died of cancer in his home in Dover, Wisconsin.


== Notes ==

Jyderup is an old town, with a population of 4,207 (1 January 2026), in Holbæk Municipality, northwestern Zealand in Denmark. It is situated roughly halfway between the larger cities of Kalundborg and Holbæk on the west and east, respectively, and is surrounded by forest and farmland. The town is bordered on the west by the lake of Skarresø.

Jyderup is split in two parts divided by the road between Holbæk and Kalundborg named Skovvejen (English: Forest Road). The town is served by Jyderup railway station which is located on the railway line between Holbæk and Kalundborg.
The northeastern part is the oldest, containing the 13th-century church. The southwestern part was built when the railroad was constructed in the early 1900s, and contains most of the shops and stores in the town. In early 2008, the town library was also moved to this part, when the townhall building stood empty, after Tornved Municipality became part of Holbæk Municipality in 2007, and the local authority was moved out of the town for the sake of centralization.


== Notable people ==
Malena Belafonte, former international fashion model turned singer, performer, producer, entrepreneur and creative director
Kamilla Larsen (born 1983 in Jyderup), Danish team handball player


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website of Jyderup Erhvervsforening (English: Jyderup Business Association) (in Danish)

The Hire-Purchase (Scotland) Act 1965 (c. 67) was an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that consolidated enactments relating to hire-purchase, credit-sale and conditional sale agreements in Scotland.
The Hire-Purchase Act 1965 and the Hire-Purchase Act (Northern Ireland) 1966 made equivalent provisions for England and Wales and Northern Ireland, respectively.


== Provisions ==


=== Repealed enactments ===
Section 55(5) of the act repealed 4 enactments, listed in schedule 6 to the act.


== Subsequent developments ==
The whole act was repealed by section 192(3)(b) of, and part I of schedule 5 to, the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which came into force on 19 May 1985.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Text of the Hire-Purchase (Scotland) Act 1965 as originally enacted or made within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.

The Tuvalu Ship Registry is the body appointed by the government of Tuvalu to register ships under the Tuvalu flag.


== Function ==
The ship registry was launched in 2004 and is located in Singapore and operated by Tuvalu Ship Registry Pte Ltd. The ship registry is managed on behalf of the Tuvalu Government by Sovereign Ventures (SV) Pte Ltd.
The responsibilities of the Registry include:

The registration and licensing of ships
The certification of seafarers
The inspection of vessels to ensure compliance with safety and environmental standards.


== Vessels registered ==
Total: 245
By type: bulk carrier 18, container ship 2, general cargo 36, oil tanker 27, other 162 (2017)


== Reflagging of Iranian vessels ==
Tuvalu entered the international spotlight in 2012 when ships that were sailing under the flag of Iran were registered in the Tuvalu Ship Registry. In response to the European boycott of Iranian oil exports over Iran's nuclear policy, a number of oil tankers changed to Tuvalu flags. According to Radio Australia, this could lead to unforeseen consequences for the small nation. The Iranian vessels were accepted by Tuvalu Ship Registry as they were earlier flagged under Malta and Cyprus flags which were well-known reputable flags. However, upon further understanding that the vessels were actually sanctioned by the US and EU, the Government of Tuvalu took swift action to instruct the Tuvalu Ship Registry to de-register all possible Iranian-linked vessels on 16 August 2012. The Iranian-linked vessels were de-registered by 21 September 2012 and press releases of the actions taken by the Tuvalu Ship Registry are posted on its website. The Iranian vessels were later rumored to have gone to other flags such as Tanzania, Mongolia and others.


== References ==


== External links ==
Effect of sanctions 'like war' says Iran's Ahmadinejad at WikiNews, 2012.
Tuvalu Ship Registry Official Website.
Tuvalu Ship Registry Press Release relating to Iranian vessels 16 August 2012.

Tony Thomas may refer to:

Tony Thomas (film historian) (1927–1997)
Tony Thomas (footballer) (born 1971), English footballer with Tranmere Rovers, Everton and Motherwell
Tony Thomas (guitarist) (1959–2022, aka Tony "Strat" Thomas), American funk and blues guitarist
Anthony William Thomas (born 1949), known as Tony, professor of physics at the University of Adelaide
Tony Thomas (producer) (born 1948), American television and film producer
Tony Thomas (rugby league), rugby league footballer of the 1960s and 1970s
Tony Thomas (baseball) (born 1986), American baseball player
Raymond A. Thomas (born 1958, also known as Tony Thomas), American general


== See also ==
Anthony Thomas (disambiguation)
Antonio Thomas (disambiguation)

Shankar Lamichhane (Nepali: शङ्कर लामिछाने; 1928 – 1976) was a Nepalese essayist and short–story writer. He is best known for his Madan Puraskar–winning essay collection Abstract Chintan Pyaj.


== Early life ==
He was born on 17 March 1928 (5 Chaitra 1984 BS) to father Hari Prasad Lamichhane and mother Raj Kumari in Jaisidewal, Kathmandu. Due to poor condition of his parents, his mother decided to take him and his brother to Banaras. His brother died after reaching Banaras. His mother started working as a teacher in Banaras and raised him but she died about a decade later. Lamichhane then moved back to Kathmandu. Lamichhane completed I.Sc. from Tri-Chandra College in Kathmandu.


== Literary career ==
Considered one of Nepal's foremost essayists of all times, Shankar Lamichhane wrote with a lyrical, musical tempo, unrestrained by the ponderous language that often mars the essays of his elders, peers or followers. He died an untimely death, but had stopped writing before that, discouraged by an anonymous accusation of plagiarism, an accusation he accepted, but which is still deliberated over by critics. That Lamichhane's fresh, playful style greatly enriched Nepali literature is, however, indisputable. His collection Abstract Chintan: Pyaz shows off his light touch in dealing with both intimate and metaphysical subjects.


== Notable works ==
Abstract Chintan Pyaj (1967; essays anthology)
Gaunthali ko Gund (Short stories)
Godhuli Sansar (1970; Anthology of essays)
Shankar Lamichhane ka Nibanadaharu (Anthology of essays)
Bimba Pratibimba (Literary essays)
Shankar Lamichhane Aatmakatha (Autobiography)


== Awards and honours ==
He won the Madan Puraskar for his anthology of essays Abstract Chintan Pyaj. Shankar Lamichhane Essay Society was established in his honor.


== Personal life and death ==
He married Ratna Rai from Darjeeling. They had two children. He then remarried Subarna Shrestha, with whom he had two children.
Lamichhane died on 24 January 1976 (10 Magh 2032 BS) at the age of 47.


== See also ==
Lain Singh Bangdel
Parijat
Bhupi Sherchan
Laxmi Prasad Devkota


== References ==

Mildmay Fane (c. October 1689 – 11 September 1715) was a British politician who sat in the House of Commons for 8 months in 1715, before his early death.
Fane was the fifth son of Vere Fane, 4th Earl of Westmorland and his wife Rachel, daughter of John Bence. Baptized on 31 October 1689, he inherited the estate of Burston, Hunton, Kent from his cousin Thomas Fane in 1692.
Fane unsuccessfully contested Kent as a Whig in the 1713 election, being beaten by a margin of about 600 votes of about 5000 cast. After the death of Queen Anne, he contested the seat again in the 1715 election. He and William Delaune were returned on 8 February, beating the sitting Tory members by a margin of about 200 votes of about 6200 cast. The change of administration, which transferred Government patronage at the Chatham dockyards and the Cinque Ports from the Tories to the Whigs, was critical in swinging the election.
Fane did not long survive his election, dying unmarried on 11 September. He left his lands to his brother, Col. John Fane, who replaced him as member for Kent in an uncontested by-election.


== References ==

Security Monument Güvenlik Anıtı (Turkish) is installed in Güvenpark of Ankara, Turkey. It was built in 1935. The sculpture is a gratuity to the Turkish police. Security Monument was designed by Clemens Holzmeister. The front of the sculpture was built by Anton Hanak, and later, after his sudden death, the sculpture was completed by Josef Thorak.


== References ==

The Universal Periodic Review (UPR) is a mechanism of the United Nations (UN) Human Rights Council (HRC) that emerged from the 2005 UN reform process. Established by the General Assembly resolution 60/251 of 3 April 2006, the UPR periodically examines the human rights performance of all 193 UN Member States. It is intended to complement, not duplicate, the work of other human rights mechanisms, including the UN human rights treaty bodies. This is the first international human rights mechanism to address all countries and all human rights. The Working Group on the UPR, which is composed of the HRC's 47 Member States and chaired by the HRC President, conducts country reviews.


== History ==
Since its inception in 2008, four states have withdrawn participation in the UPR. Under the second Donald Trump administration, the United States withdrew its participation.


== Principles and objectives ==
HRC Resolution 5/1 of 18 June 2007 and HRC decision 6/102 of 27 September 2007 elaborated on the UPR's functions in its first cycle from 2008 - 2012. For the second and subsequent cycles, a few amendments were introduced to the UPR by HRC Resolution 16/21 of 12 April 2011 and HRC decision 17/119 of 19 July 2011, after a review by the HRC (for further details, see HRC review process below). HRC resolution 5/1 provides that the UPR should: 

Promote the universality, interdependence, indivisibility and interrelatedness of all human rights
Be a cooperative mechanism based on objective and reliable information and on interactive dialogue
Ensure universal coverage and equal treatment of all States
Be an intergovernmental process, UN Member-driven and action oriented
Fully involve the country under review
Complement and not duplicate other human rights mechanisms, thus representing an added value
Be conducted in an objective, transparent, non-selective, constructive, non-confrontational and non-politicized manner
Not be overly burdensome to the concerned State or to the agenda of the HRC
Not be overly long; it should be realistic and not absorb a disproportionate amount of time or human and financial resources
Not diminish the HRC's capacity to respond to urgent human rights situations
Fully integrate a gender perspective
Take into account the level of development and specificities of countries
Ensure the participation of all relevant stakeholders, including non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and national human rights institutions (NHRIs).
The objectives of the UN-UPR are: 

The improvement of the human rights situation on the ground
The fulfilment of the State's human rights obligations and commitments and assessment of positive developments and challenges faced by the State
The enhancement of the State's capacity and of technical assistance, in consultation with, and with the consent of, the State concerned
The sharing of best practice among States and other stakeholders
Support for cooperation in the promotion and protection of human rights
The encouragement of full cooperation and engagement with the HRC, other human rights bodies and the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR).
HRC resolution 16/21 further provides that the second and subsequent cycles should focus on the implementation of the accepted recommendations and the developments of the human rights situation in the State under review.


== Procedure ==


=== UPR cycle ===
While the first UPR operated on a four-year cycle, the second was extended to four and a half years, and the third lasts five years. Forty-two States are now reviewed each year during three sessions of the HRC's Working Group on the UPR, with 14 States reviewed at each session. The HRC determined the order of review for the first UPR cycle (2008–2012) on 21 September 2007 through the drawing of lots and the same order will be maintained during the second and subsequent cycles. The first order of review was instructed by the resolution 5/1 requirements that all 47 member States of the HRC be reviewed during their term of membership, in addition to a few other criteria.


=== Basis of country reviews ===
The basis of country reviews is: (a) the Charter of the UN; (b) the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; (c) human rights instruments to which a State is party; and (d) voluntary pledges and commitments made by the State, including those undertaken when presenting their candidature for election to the HRC. Country reviews also take into account applicable international humanitarian law.


=== Documentation upon which country reviews are based ===
Country reviews are based on three documents:

A 20-page national report prepared by the State under review
A ten-page compilation of UN information (including Special Procedures reports, human rights treaty body reports, and other relevant UN documentation) prepared by OHCHR
A ten-page summary of information received from stakeholders (including NHRIs, NGOs, and other civil society actors) also prepared by the OHCHR
In decision 6/102, the HRC provided guidelines for the preparation of information under the UPR. It specifies that States, in preparing national reports, should address/provide:

A description of the methodology and the broad consultation process followed for the preparation of information provided under the UPR
Background of the country under review and framework (particularly normative and institutional framework) for the promotion and protection of human rights: constitution, legislation, policy measures, national jurisprudence, human rights infrastructure including NHRIs, and scope of international obligations identified in the "basis of review" in resolution 5/1
Promotion and protection of human rights on the ground: implementation of international human rights obligations identified in the "basis of review" in resolution 5/1, national legislation and voluntary commitments, NHRI activities, public awareness of human rights, cooperation with human rights mechanisms
Identification of achievements, best practices, challenges and constraints
Key national priorities, initiatives and commitments that the State concerned intends to undertake to overcome those challenges and constraints and improve its human rights situation
Expectations of the State concerned in terms of capacity-building and requests, if any, for technical assistance; and
In the second and subsequent UPR cycles, this should also contain a presentation by the State concerned of its work on the follow-up to the previous review.


=== Working Group on the UPR ===
The Working Group on the UPR is composed by the 47 Member States of the HRC, chaired by the HRC President and conducts country reviews. The Working Group held its first review in 2008. It allocates three and a half hours to each review, 70 minutes of which is given to the State under review to discuss its domestic human rights framework, measures taken to promote and protect human rights in country, human rights issues of particular national pertinence, and steps taken to address and redress violations. It is also an opportunity for the State to present voluntary human rights pledges and commitments. An interactive dialogue of 140 minutes follows the State's presentation, during which UN member States question the State and make recommendations towards the improvement of its human rights situation and performance. It is worth noting that all 193 UN member states (both HRC members and not) can take the floor.
A wide variety of issues have been addressed during the country reviews and potentially all human rights issues could be addressed during this session. While the counting of the actual number of recommendations is complicated by the fact that they are clustered together in the Working Group report, the NGO UPR Info has calculated the first cycle of the UPR to have provided a total of 21,356 recommendations and 599 voluntary pledges.


=== The role of the Troika and drafting of the Working Group report ===
Each review is facilitated by a group of three States, known as the "troika", that serve as rapporteurs. The troika is responsible for receiving the advanced questions from UN member States to the country under review. The second role of the troika is to prepare an outcome document on the review, which includes a summary of the review proceedings, recommendations suggested by States, conclusions, and voluntary commitments presented by the State under review. The outcome document is prepared with the assistance of the UPR secretariat and the recommendations contained in the outcome of the review should preferably be clustered thematically with the full involvement and consent of the State under review and the States that made the recommendations.


=== Adoption ===
Thirty minutes are allocated to the adoption of the outcome document at a later stage in the same Working Group session, during which the State under review is given a preliminary opportunity to indicate whether it supports the recommendations suggested to it by States as well as the conclusions reflected in the outcome document. Once adopted, the outcome document is transferred to the HRC for discussion and adoption in plenary. In the intervening period between the Working Group and plenary sessions, the reviewed State is expected to confirm which UPR recommendations it accepts and does not accept.


=== HRC plenary session ===
The UPR is a standing item on the HRC's agenda (item 6). At each HRC session, time is allocated to the consideration and adoption of the outcome documents transferred from the Working Group on the UPR. An hour is allocated to the adoption of each document, during which the reviewed State is offered the opportunity to present replies to questions or issues not sufficiently addressed during the interactive dialogue at the Working Group. HRC member and observer States are also given the opportunity to express their views on the outcome of the review before the HRC takes action on it. NHRIs with 'A' status and NGOs in consultative status with the UN Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) have the opportunity to make 'general comments' before the adoption of the outcome report. This is the only opportunity for civil society to take the floor during the UPR.


=== Follow-up to UPR outcome ===
While the outcome of the review, as a cooperative mechanism, should be implemented primarily by the State concerned, States are encouraged to conduct broad consultations with all relevant stakeholders in this regard.
States are encouraged to provide the Council, on a voluntary basis, with a midterm update on follow-up to accepted recommendations. As of 20 February 2013, 28 countries so far have provided the HRC with an implementation report.
According to Resolution 16/21, other relevant stakeholders are encouraged to include information on the follow-up to the preceding review in their contributions. The summary of the information provided by other relevant stakeholders should contain, where appropriate, a separate section for contributions by the national human rights institution of the State under review that is accredited in full compliance with the Paris Principles.
The Voluntary Fund for Financial and Technical Assistance, established by the Council in its resolution 6/17, should be strengthened and operationalized in order to provide a source of financial and technical assistance to help countries to implement the recommendations emanating from their review.
States may request the United Nations representation at the national or regional level to assist them in the implementation of the follow-up to their review. Financial and technical assistance for the implementation of the review should support national needs and priorities, as may be reflected in national implementation plans.
The NGO UPR Info has from 2011 to 2014 undertaken 165 assessments at a two-years distance after the review in order to see how the recommendations (the main UPR outcome) are implemented, and what is the real effect of the UPR on the ground. In 2012 it published its first study Archived 2019-11-05 at the Wayback Machine on the assessment of these implementations by 66 countries. A second publication followed in 2014, titled Beyond Promises Archived 2019-10-03 at the Wayback Machine, assessed 165 countries and shared best practices observed from States, NHRIs, and NGOs. A third publication, released in 2016 and dubbed The Butterfly Effect Archived 2020-02-12 at the Wayback Machine, aimed to spread UPR best practices and inspire all actors.


=== State non-cooperation with the UPR ===
After exhausting all efforts to encourage a State to cooperate with the UPR mechanism, the HRC will address, as appropriate, cases of persistent non-cooperation with the mechanism.
The first case where persistent non-cooperation was discussed is Israel's UPR. Israel was not reviewed as scheduled on 29 January 2013. As a consequence, the HRC discussed in March and June 2013 the issue of "persistent non-cooperation". Eventually, Israel resumed its cooperation with the HRC and was reviewed on 29 October 2013, but the HRC missed the opportunity to define what "persistent non-cooperation" is.


=== Stakeholders UPR contribution opportunities ===
The rules governing the participation of NHRIs and NGOs at the HRC, and therefore in the UPR mechanism, are prescribed by resolution 5/1, which states that their participation shall be based on the 'practices observed by the [former] Commission on Human Rights, while ensuring the most effective contribution of these entities'.
While the UPR is an intergovernmental process, a number of opportunities for contribution are available to non-governmental stakeholders. These include:

Participating in national consultations for the preparation of a State's national report. States are encouraged to undertake broad national consultation processes towards the preparation of their national reports
Submitting information to State reviews. Submissions may be incorporated into the OHCHR-prepared summary of stakeholders' information discussed above
Attending the review of the State at the Working Group on the UPR. Stakeholders may attend Working Group sessions, but cannot participate in the interactive dialogue
Attending the HRC session at which the outcome report on a State is adopted. 'A' status NHRIs and ECOSOC-accredited NGOs may make 'general comments' before the adoption of the outcome report
Submitting written statements under HRC agenda item 6 (UPR). NHRIs and ECOSOC-accredited NGOs can submit written statements
When appropriate, working on the follow-up of UPR recommendations


== HRC review process ==
In resolution 60/251, the General Assembly required the HRC to review and report on its work and functioning after its first five years. In October 2009, the HRC established the open-ended intergovernmental working group on the review of the work and functioning of the HRC (composed by the 47 member States of the HRC) to lead its review process. Chaired by the then HRC President (Ambassador Sihasak Phuangketkeow of Thailand), the Working Group met for two substantive sessions. The first Working Group session took place on 25–29 October 2010; the second session was held on 7, 17-18, and 23–24 February 2011.
On 25 March 2011, the HRC adopted as resolution 16/21 the outcome of its review of the work and functioning of the HRC, later followed by HRC decision 17/119 of 19 July 2011 with the following changes to the UPR:

Length of the next cycles: The second and subsequent cycles will last 4.5 years with 14 sessions per cycle
Number of States per session: 14 States will be reviewed per session, in a total of 42 states per year
Duration of the review: Each country review will last 3.5 hours. The State under Review (SuR) will be given 70 minutes and other States 140 minutes
Order of review: The order of review will be exactly the same. As there will be only by 14 States reviewed per session, the two last States of session 1 will be moved to the beginning of session 2, the last four of session 2 will be moved to the beginning of session 3, etc.
Focus of the next cycles: The second and subsequent cycles of the review should focus on, inter alia, the implementation of the accepted recommendations and the developments of the human rights situation in the SuR
List of speakers: For each review, States will be arranged in English alphabetical order and the first state of the list will be drawn by lot. States will be able to swap place and all States will be given the floor. If needed be, time per speakers will be reduced to two minutes each or the 140 minutes will be divided by the number of speakers.
General guidelines: The General Guidelines Decision A/HRC/DEC/6/102 for the drafting of the three reports that form the basis of the review were slightly modified to give greater emphasis on the need for States to report on the implementation of recommendations
Clustering of recommendations: The recommendations contained in the UPR outcome document should preferably be clustered thematically, with the full involvement and consent of the State under review and the States that made the recommendations
Responses to recommendations: States should clearly communicate to the Council, in a written format preferably prior to the Council plenary, its positions on all received recommendations
Mid-term reports: States are encouraged to provide the Council, on a voluntary basis, with a midterm update on follow-up to accepted recommendations
Role of National human rights institutions: National Human Rights Institutions (NHRIs) with A status will have a dedicated section in the summary of other stakeholders' information and will be given the floor directly after the SuR during the adoption at the HRC plenary session
Role of NGOs: States are encouraged to conduct broad consultations with all relevant stakeholders on the follow-up. Other relevant stakeholders are encouraged to include information on the follow-up to the preceding review in their contributions


== References ==

Longwall Street is a street in central Oxford, England. It runs for about 300 metres along the western flank of Magdalen College. A high, imposing 15th century stone wall separates the college from the street along its entire length. Behind part of the wall is the college's deer park. The street is actually named after the old Oxford city wall to the west of the street, now largely hidden in the grounds of New College.
Holywell Street and St Cross Road form a junction with the northern end of the street. The High forms a junction with the southern end.


== Morris Motors ==
In 1902 William Morris—later known as Lord Nuffield—established his early motor business on the site of disused livery stables in Longwall Street. At that stage, the enterprise was modest in scale and operated from adapted premises.
By 1910, purpose-built facilities had been erected on the same site for Morris Motors Limited. The new building provided approximately 4,400 square feet (410 m2) of floor space, accommodation for up to 60 cars, and showroom windows facing the street. The structure, designed by the architects Tollit and Lee, was executed in red brick in a neo-Georgian style.
Demand soon exceeded the capacity of the Longwall Street premises. In 1913, Morris transferred production to a newly constructed factory at Cowley, to the south-east of Oxford.
A small display relating to Morris Motors is now exhibited in one of the windows of the former Longwall Street building.


== Gallery ==


== References ==


== Sources ==
Woolley, Liz (2010). "Industrial Architecture in Oxford, 1870 to 1914". Oxoniensia. LXXV. Oxfordshire Architectural and Historical Society: 94, 95. ISSN 0308-5562.


== External links ==

The High - Longwall Street, Oxford History

Sabah Mirza Mahmud (Arabic: صباح ميرزا محمود, 1943–2005) was an Iraqi military colonel and the first personal companion of former Iraqi president Saddam Hussein. He was of Feyli Kurdish origin and followed Shia Islam.


== Early life ==
Sabah was one of Saddam's old friends, and began his violent partisan duties since the age of 16. In his youth, he was known in his neighborhood (Adhamiyah) as a boxer.
When he was a student, he joined General Union Students in the Republic of Iraq, Sabah graduated from Languages Institute, though he stayed unemployed for some time until Saddam recruited him as his bodyguard.


== Career ==


=== Service under Saddam Hussein ===
His Code Name was Lieutenant Yusif. In preparation for the coup of 17 July Revolution 1968 Sabah was assigned to lead one of the groups that were deployed to patrol some streets of Baghdad.  He served Saddam as his bodyguard for over 22 years. He received quick military promotions through the ranks due to his closeness to Saddam Hussein. During the Iran–Iraq War, Sabah attended night shifts at the headquarters of Central Command, where Saddam used to attend one hour a day to be briefed on the military operations. According to files from the former Iraqi regime, resentment had developed among some of Saddam Hussein’s bodyguards toward Sabah Mirza Mahmoud, who was the only officer among the original group of 16 guards. Hussein Kamel, Abdul Hamoud, and Arshad Yassin reportedly objected to being commanded by a Kurdish officer, they privately discussed opposing him. Sabah also came under scrutiny after he was heard speaking Kurdish with a businessman in Sulaymaniyah, leading Saddam to have his home telephones monitored for three months, no evidence of wrongdoing was found and the surveillance was stopped. Sabah was ultimately removed from his position following an incident involving Rashidi Abu Hamra, who had been sentenced to ten years in prison for defrauding the Rafidain Bank. Sabah claimed that Saddam had ordered Abu Hamra’s release, although no such order had been given. After learning of this, Saddam had Sabah detained for three days before ordering his retirement, removal from the Ba’ath Party, and dismissal as head of the bodyguard unit.


=== U.S invasion ===
Sabah was captured in 2003 by American occupying forces to be questioned about Saddam's hiding place, and he was soon released as there was no evidence of his knowledge thereof, but a weapons cache was seized from his farm.


=== Sport ===
He was elected as vice chairman of National Olympic Committee of Iraq, he was also appointed as Chairman of the Iraqi Football Association to assert the new regime authority over the nation's favorite's sport, at the time when  Iraqi Team became one of the most successful national teams in Asia, he also was appointed as the president of Al-Shabab sport club. ٍ


=== Farming ===
Sabah had a 10-Dunam farm in Jurf Al Naddaf area southeast of Baghdad, which he claimed that it was an unproductive vacant land, and he restored it and thereafter owned it officially.


== References ==

DXJS (1170 AM) Radyo Pilipinas is a radio station owned and operated by the Presidential Broadcast Service. The station's studio is located near the Provincial Capitol, Brgy. Telaje, Tandag.
Last January 6, 2011, DXJS's transmitter tower was knocked down by heavy rains.


== References ==

K. S. Sabarinadhan (born 5 September 1983) is an Indian lawyer, engineer and politician who belongs to the Indian National Congress. He represented Aruvikkara constituency in the Kerala Legislative Assembly from 2015 to 2021. He is now currently serving as the ward councillor for the Kowdiar ward of the Thiruvananthapuram city Municipal Corporation after his victory in the 2025 Kerala Local Body elections


== Early life and education ==
Sabarinadhan was born to former minister and speaker G. Karthikeyan and M. T. Sulekha in Thiruvananthapuram on 5 September 1983.
Sabarinadhan did his schooling at Loyola School, Thiruvananthapuram. He graduated in Electrical Engineering from College of Engineering, Trivandrum in 2005. Thereafter he worked for a brief period in IT sector at Mindtree, Bangalore. He completed his MBA from Management Development Institute, Gurgaon in 2008. After that, he worked with the Tata Group in Mumbai for several years, eventually spending a few years working with the Tata Trusts in the areas of healthcare and nutrition.


== Personal life ==
 
Sabarinadhan is married to Divya S. Iyer, a civil service officer, thus becoming the first MLA–IAS couple in Kerala. The couple have a son.


== Political career ==
In 2015, Sabarinadhan contested the by-election from Aruvikkara constituency, which was vacated due to the death of his father. He defeated M. Vijayakumar by a margin of 10,128 votes.
In the 2016 Kerala Legislative Assembly election, he was re-elected from Aruvikkara constituency. He defeated A. A. Rasheed of CPI(M) by a margin of 21,314 votes. In 2020, he became the vice president of Kerala Youth Congress.
In the 2021 Kerala Legislative Assembly election, he lost to G. Steephen of the CPI(M) by 5046 votes.
In the 2025 Kerala Local Body Elections to the Thiruvananthapuram City Corporation, he contested as the Mayor candidate of the Indian National Congress and won from the Kowdiar ward. He is now currently serving as the ward councilor for Kowdiar.


== References ==

The 2020–21 season was Al-Fayha's 67th year in their existence and their first back season in the MS League. Al-Fayha were relegated to the second tier of Saudi football after finishing 14th in the 2019–20 Saudi Pro League. The club participated in the MS League only following the Saudi FF's decision to reduce the number of teams in the King Cup.
The season covered the period from 22 September 2020 to 30 June 2021.


== Players ==


=== Squad information ===
As of 9 February 2021

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


== Transfers and loans ==


=== Transfers in ===


=== Loans in ===


=== Transfers out ===


=== Loans out ===


== Pre-season ==


== Competitions ==


=== MS League ===


==== League table ====


==== Results summary ====


==== Results by round ====


==== Matches ====
All times are local, AST (UTC+3).
  Win
  Draw
  Loss
  Postponed


== Statistics ==


=== Appearances ===
Last updated on 31 May 2021.


=== Goalscorers ===

Last Updated: 25 May 2021


=== Clean sheets ===

Last Updated: 31 May 2021


== References ==

HaMerotz LaMillion 5 is the fifth season of HaMerotz LaMillion (Hebrew: המירוץ למיליון, lit. The Race to the Million), an Israeli reality competition show based on the American series The Amazing Race. Hosted by Ron Shahar, it featured fourteen teams of two with a pre-existing relationship in a race around the Eastern Hemisphere to win ₪1,000,000. This season visited four continents and ten countries and traveled over 37,200 kilometres (23,100 mi) during thirteen legs. Starting in Tel Aviv and Yavne, racers traveled through Israel, Italy, Romania, Namibia, Tanzania, India, South Korea, Vietnam, Cambodia, and Australia before finishing in Melbourne and learning the results in Tel Aviv. This season premiered on 17 May 2016 on Channel 2 with the finale on 26 September 2016.
Father and son Amit and Raz Gal were the winners of this season. Amit, who was at the age of 63 at time of filming and turned 64 during the course of filming, surpassed David O'Leary of The Amazing Race 24 (59 at time of filming) as the oldest winner in any edition of The Amazing Race. At a combined age of 96, Amit & Raz are also the oldest team to win any edition of The Amazing Race. Friends Lee Hadad and Tal Alkobi finished second, and French New Olim Joezi Zirah and Alex Amar finished third.


== Production ==


=== Development and filming ===

This season traversed four continents and ten countries. Much like the previous season, the first leg began with fourteen teams that were split into two groups of seven. Both groups of seven teams would run a leg in Israel resulting in two teams eliminated. Unlike the previous season, both groups of seven teams were aware of each other. While in Vietnam, the normal red and yellow route markers were used, unlike the first season in which the route markers were replaced with yellow and white flags to avoid confusion with the former South Vietnamese national flag, following recent editions of The Amazing Race where the normal red & yellow route markers were used. Similar to last season, teams' overall placements were determined when teams checked-in at an empty Pit Stop mat at the Hedgend Maze in Australia, and teams had to return to Ariel Sharon Park to learn of their final placement.
Darryn Lyons, the mayor of Geelong, Australia at the time of filming, appeared as the Pit Stop greeter during the penultimate leg.


== Cast ==

The cast for this season included actor and model Adriano Jauvel and former Hapoel Galil Elyon manager Amit Gal.


=== Future appearances ===
Ben and Ori and Yael and Yosiel competed on HaMerotz LaMillion 8.
Jonathan "Joezi" Zirah later competed on the ninth season of the Israeli edition of Survivor with Season 4 contestant Ruth "Alexa Dol" Dolgakov. Joezi was the seventh person eliminated after losing a duel and the first member of the jury. In 2020, Joezi competed on the eleventh season of the Israeli edition of Big Brother and finished as the runner-up.


== Results ==
The following teams participated in this season, with their relationships at the time of filming. Note that this table is not necessarily reflective of all content broadcast on television due to inclusion or exclusion of some data. Placements are listed in finishing order:

Key
A red team placement means the team was eliminated.
A blue team placement indicates that the team was the last to arrive at a Pit Stop in a non-elimination leg.
An orange + indicates that there was a Duel on this leg, while an orange − indicates the team that lost the Duel and received a 15-minute penalty.
A brown ⊂ or cyan ⋑ indicates the team who received a U-Turn; ⊃ or ⋐ indicates that the team voted for the recipient.
A yellow <, orange «, olive ≤ or red « indicates the team who received a Yield; >, », ≥ and » indicates that the team voted for the recipient.
Notes


=== Voting history ===
Teams may vote to choose either U-Turn or Yield. The team with the most votes received the U-Turn or Yield penalty, depending on the respective leg.


== Episode Titles ==
Translated from Hebrew from the official website:


== Race summary ==


=== Leg 1 (Israel) ===

Group A
Airdate: 17 May 2016

Tel Aviv, Israel (Sarona) (Starting Line)
Tel Aviv (Yarkon Park)
Tel Aviv (Rothschild Boulevard #1)
Tel Aviv (Derech HaShalom Street #32–34)
Rishon LeZion (Yes Planet – 4DX Cinema)
Rishon LeZion (Yes Planet – Agamon Rishon LeZion) 
Additional tasks
At Yarkon Park, teams had to climb up a shaky rope ladder to a giant billboard which held a giant scratch ticket. Teams then had to balance on a pair of pegs that they had to move from slot to slot in order to reach the whole board. Using two giant Shekel coins, teams had to scratch off the board to reveal the message hidden underneath ("The world is waiting for you!") to receive their next clue.
At Rothschild Boulevard #1, teams would find a large array of trash bins. Each trash bin had either a bottle or paper that they had to look for, but only some of them were marked with the show logo. If a team found one of the items but it was not marked, they had to properly recycle them in one of the recycling bins, and put the trash back in their original bin. Once the team found either the marked bottle or paper, they could exchange it for the next clue.
After the trash task teams received only a piece of music sheet, which they then had to decipher using the help of the locals in order to play the song "Derech HaShalom" by Pe'er Tasi. At the bottom of the sheet teams would find written the numbers "32–34". Combining both informations, teams had to make their way to Derech HaShalom Street #32–34, where Pe'er Tasi in person would hand them their next clue.
At Yes Planet's 4DX Cinema in Rishon LeZion, teams had to watch seven scenes of different movies with famous Hollywood actors on them. Then, teams had to correctly pick and arrange stars with the actors names written on them. If the teams correctly guessed all seven stars, they would be allowed in the cinema's VIP room, where they would see the location of the Pit Stop displayed on the screen. If teams were wrong, they would have to eat a full bag of popcorn in the 4DX cinema before trying again.

Group B
Airdate: 22 May 2016

Yavne, Israel (Tel Yavne) (Starting Line)
Yavne (Water Tower)
Tel Aviv, Tel Aviv District (Dan Hotel)
Tel Aviv (Paz Filling Station – Yellow Market)
Tel Aviv (Ben-Gurion House)
Tel Aviv (Ariel Sharon Park) 
Additional tasks
At Yavne's water tower, the second group of teams had to fill a bucket of water and bring it to the top of the tower while sitting on a suspended scaffold and  using chains to go up and balance the scaffold. Once at the top, teams would have to fill an empty bucket, which would go down and then would release their car's keys. If teams didn't bring enough water to make the bucket go down, they would have to descend and bring another bucket of water.
At the Dan Hotel in Tel Aviv, teams had to choose between two tasks. In the first task, one team member had to sit in a bathtub while the other team member had to fill the tub with ice in order to decrease the temperature to eight degrees celsius. In the second task, teams had to form the figure of two kissing swans using towels per the hotel's standards. Once teams completed either task, they had to bring a tower of coloured chocolates to the room of a Lady Gaga impersonator named "Lady Chacha" and give her a compliment before receiving their next clue.
The clue instructed teams to make their way to the "nearby yellow", which teams had to figure out was a Yellow Market inside a Paz Filling Station. Once there, teams would receive a coffee with cream and a basket with their next clue, which instructed teams to convince a local to let them prepare "Ben Gurion Rice" in their house, while using the given oil, cooking pot and ptitim that teams either bought or got from the local. Once cooked, teams would have to take the Ben Gurion Rice to the Ben-Gurion House, where a man would approve or disapprove the meal. If the meal was correctly cooked, teams would receive their next clue.
Teams received the instruction to make their way to the next Pit Stop, "the park named after the eleventh Prime Minister of Israel". Teams had to figure out that the largest park in Israel is the Ariel Sharon Park, formerly a waste dump in Tel Aviv.


=== Leg 2 (Israel → Italy) ===

Airdates: 24, 29 & 31 May 2016

 Tel Aviv (Ben Gurion Airport) to Rome, Italy (Leonardo da Vinci–Fiumicino Airport)
Fiumicino (Leonardo da Vinci–Fiumicino Airport – Parking Lot C)
Rome (Ristorante Antico Casale La Carovana)
Rome (Piazza Benedetto Cairoli)
 Rome (Antica Norcineria Viola or Beppe e i Suoi Formaggi)
Rome (Piazza Benedetto Cairoli) 
Rome (Piazza del Popolo – Fontana del Nettuno)
Rome (Piazza Pia – Via della Conciliazione Intersection)
Rome (Piazza Navona – Sant'Agnese in Agone)
Rome (Pizzeria Disco Volante)
Rome (Piazza Regina Margherita)
Rome (Colosseum) 
This season's first Detour was a choice between בָּשָׂר (Basar – Meat) or חלב (Halav – Dairy). In Meat, teams had to make their way to Antica Norcineria Viola, where they had to taste and distinguish nine different varieties of salami, and then correctly label the salamis located on a stall outside the store to receive their next clue. In Dairy, teams had to make their way to Beppe e i Suoi Formaggi cheese store and then proceed to grate at least 1.5 kilograms (3.3 lb) of parmesan cheese using a small circular grater to receive their next clue. Teams found the U-turn reveal board on a nearby park.

Additional tasks
After arriving in Rome, teams had to make their way to the parking lot C of Leonardo da Vinci–Fiumicino Airport and find Maurizio, who would hand them their car keys and the next clue. In their clue, teams received an incomplete sticker of the Vitruvian Man by Leonardo da Vinci, which they had to use to find the other part of the sticker located on the rear windshield of their car.
At Ristorante Antico Casale La Carovana, teams had to retrieve different kinds of pasta with a large spoon from a boiling cooking pot and then search in the hot pasta for sixteen letters. Then, using some of the letters, teams had to find a word related to the Italian cuisine, which was Parmigiano Reggiano to receive their next clue. Before departing, teams had to vote for the team they wanted to U-Turn.
After the Detour, teams had to find out who the God of the sea is in the Roman Mythology, Neptune. After figuring it out, teams had to make their way to Piazza del Popolo and find the next clue at Neptune's Fountain. For their next task, teams had to dress up as the figures on the fountain, Neptune and his trident, accompanied by two tritons. Teams had to don costumes and paint their faces, neck, legs and arms, but since the fountain has three characters, they had to convince a local to dress up as one of the characters. Teams then had to earn ten Euros and give the money to the Neptune impersonator to receive their next clue.
The clue teams received instructed them to go to where the "white smoke can be seen", and they had to figure out their next destination was the intersection of Piazza Pia and Via della Conciliazione, from which St. Peter's Basilica in the Vatican City can be seen. There, both team members had to stack bottle crates, while one of them was standing on top of the crates, until that person could reach a tiramisu hanging six meters above the ground to receive two espressos, a tiramisu and their next clue.
At the Sant'Agnese in Agone Church, teams had to find a clue outside of the church, which instructed them to look for people using Italian fashion brands and then take a selfie with the brand's logo. Once teams had taken five pictures, they could exchange them with a model named Naomi for their next clue.
At the Pizzeria Disco Volante, teams were shown how to prepare a pizza margherita. Then, teams had to pick one of several pizza dough balls, and if the dough wasn't dyed inside, teams would have to prepare a pizza using pomodoro, mozzarella and fresh basil. If the dough had red dye inside, teams had to show it to the cook, who would direct them to Piazza Regina Margherita, where they would find an impersonator of Margherita of Savoy, who would hand them their next clue in exchange for the team's prepared pizzas.
At the Colosseum, teams had to correctly move one of the large matches in order to fix the equation written in Roman numerals. The original equation was "VI – IV = IX" and they had to come up with the equation "VI + IV = X", so they had to change the sign using the "I" in the original result. Once teams came up with the correct solution, they could run to the Pit Stop.


=== Leg 3 (Italy) ===

Airdates: 5, 7 & 14 June 2016

Viterbo (Circuito Internazionale di Viterbo (in Italian))
Sutri (Piazza del Comune)
Sutri (Roman Amphitheatre of Sutri) 
Sutri (Alleys of Sutri)
Campagnano di Roma (Giuseppe's Olive Plantation)
Rome (Piazza Navona)
Rome (Pincian Hill – Pincio Park) (Overnight Rest)
Rome (Santa Maria in Trastevere) 
Rome (Transmission Music Store)
Rome (Pincian Hill – Terrazza del Pincio)  
For this season's first Duel, one team member from each team had to wear a Roman gladiator costume which left him blindfolded. Then, the two gladiators from different teams would have to face off inside of a large circle at the Roman Amphitheatre of Sutri with the objective of catching the other one with a net. To do so, the non-blindfolded team member would have to direct their partner when and where to throw the net. If one of the gladiators walked outside the marked circle, the point would go to the other team. Once a team had won two battles, they would receive their next clue. The team that lost the final Duel had to wait out a 15-minute penalty. After completing the Duel, teams would have to vote for the team they wanted to Yield.
In this season's first Roadblock, one team member had to recite sonnets in Italian and give different gifts (chocolates, roses, rings, etc.) to ten locals, who would have to give a cheek kiss to the racer, at Santa Maria in Trastevere. Once racers received ten kisses from ten different people, a Giacomo Casanova impersonator would hand them their next clue.

Additional tasks
At the Circuito internazionale di Viterbo, both team members had to don overalls, and one of them had to drive in a kart for two laps around the circuit. After completing one lap, the other team member would have to change one of the kart tires before the driving team member could complete the other lap. If teams completed both laps in under 13 minutes, they would receive their next clue, otherwise they would have to try again.
At Piazza del Comune, teams had to learn and perform a flag throwing choreography to the satisfaction of the lead flagman to receive their next clue.
At the alleys of Sutri, teams had to take two baskets with fresh laundry and hang it from two different balconies that faced each other, one belonging to the Capulet family and the other belonging to the Montague family (named after the families from Romeo and Juliet). Clothes sized S and M belonged to the Capulet house and sizes L and XL belonged to the Montague house, so if one team member had the clothes belonging to the other house they would have to throw it to the other balcony. Once teams found the only piece of clothing sized XXXL, they could exchange it with the Mamma for their next clue.
At Giuseppe's Olive Plantation, teams had to transport 5 kilograms of olive from one bucket at the bottom of a hill to the one in the top of the hill using their hands with olives while walking barefoot over an oily plastic carpet to receive their next clue from Giuseppe.
At Piazza Navona, teams had to play the role of a paparazzi by finding an Israeli celebrity hiding anywhere in the Piazza and taking multiple pictures of him. Teams had to figure out that the celebrity was in fact HaMerotz LaMillion 4 contestant Tom Baum (from Tom & Uriel), who was drinking a coffee in one of the Piazza's cafés. Teams then had to show the pictures to Tom, who would give them the next clue.
At Pincio Park on Pincian Hill, teams would discover if they were Yielded before signing up on a board in the order they arrived at the park. The next morning, teams had to return to the park and properly arrange the planets in the Solar System from closest to farthest to the Sun (Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune and Pluto). Once teams thought that their order was correct, they had to call a Galileo Galilei impersonator, who would hand them their next clue. If the order was incorrect, teams would have to pick a paper containing one of two penalty tasks, that they would have to complete before trying again. The first penalty task consisted of one team member moving two buckets with water for thirty seconds without stopping, one to the front and one to the back, in order to create centrifugal force. The other task consisted of one team member holding a Sun model, and the other one holding an Earth model. The person holding the Earth model would have to run around the person with the Sun model for six minutes and five seconds simulating the Earth's orbit.
At the Transmission Music Store, teams would have to find the only gramophone record belonging to an Italian singer in the whole store, Toto Cutugno's "L'Italiano", which they could exchange with the store manager for their next clue.
Additional note
At the Pit Stop in Terrazza del Pincio, the Yielded teams had to wait their 15-minute penalty before being allowed to check-in.


=== Leg 4 (Italy → Romania) ===

Airdates: 20, 27 & 28 June 2016

 Rome (Leonardo da Vinci–Fiumicino Airport) to Bucharest, Romania (Henri Coandă International Airport)
Bucharest (Stadionul Dinamo) 
Bucharest (University of Bucharest) 
Bucharest (Casa Capșa) 
Bucharest (Lipscani)
Bușteni (Cantacuzino Castle)
Bucharest (Artmark Galerie) (Overnight Rest)
Bucharest (Artizanat București)
Bucharest (Artmark Galerie)
 Bucharest (Bucharest North Railway Station) to Brașov (Brașov Railway Station)
Brașov (Brașov Olympic Ice Rink)
Brașov (Piața Sfatului)
Brașov (Brașov Citadel (in Romanian))  
This leg's Detour was a choice between התעמלות אומנותית (Gymnastics) or אתלטיקה קלה (Athletics). In Gymnastics, both team members had to learn a gymnastics routine using one hula hoop each. Then, they had to perform the routine in front of three judges and earn a score of seven or higher from all three judges to receive their next clue. In Athletics, one team member had to complete a hurdling course without touching any of the hurdles, and team member had to jump 1.20 metres (3.9 ft) on a high jump structure to receive their next clue.
In this leg's Roadblock, one team member had to attach magnets onto different parts of their body and search for the piece of metal that was not magnetized, which was an object made of gold that teams could exchange for the next clue.
For this leg's Duel, one member of each team had to bet on how many pieces of Romanian food (which included Mămăligă, Papanași and Mititei) they wanted their partner to eat. The last team member to say a number would make their partner eat that amount of food in five minutes. A team earned a point in any of two cases, first, if the team member eating ate all the food within the given time, or if the person eating was from the other team and couldn't eat the food in the time. The first team to reach two points would receive their next clue and win the battle. The team that lost the final Duel had to wait out a 15-minute penalty.

Additional tasks
At Lipscani street, teams had to convince a local to take part as a guest in a talk show hosted by one of the racers with the other racer also as a guest. While the host asked personal questions to the local, the other racer would have to convince the local to let them rub a lemon on their elbows, apply avocado onto their skin, and put a bra on their head. If the local accepted all these activities, teams would receive their next clue.
At Cantacuzino Castle, teams were welcomed by a Dracula impersonator, who guided them to a room without light and filled with scary stuff like spider webs, a coffin, a stuffed fox, etc. Teams had to search inside the room within 10 minutes for their clue, which was hanging from the ceiling. If teams ran out of time, they would have to wait for their next turn and try again.
At Artmark Galerie in Bucharest, teams found out if they were Yielded and would sign up for a departure time next morning. The next day, teams had to go to Artizanat București and search in the store's showcases for something distinctive, which was the image of a specific castle. Then, they had to return to the Artmark Galerie and search among plenty of wax sealed letters for the one with a seal that depicted the same castle that they saw in the showcases.
At the Brașov Olympic Ice Rink, teams had to ice skate inside the rink and match five different couples. On one side of the rink were the guys holding a pot inside a purse, while on the other side were the girls holding the pot's cover also inside a purse. To make a couple match, each team member had to take a person of opposite sex and match both the pot and the cover. Once teams matched all five couples, they would receive their next clue.
At Piața Sfatului, teams had to watch a traditional Romanian group dance. At one point in the routine, the female dancers would uncover letters attached to their heads that formed the Pit Stop's location: "Brașov Citadel". Before checking in, the Yielded teams would have to wait their 15-minutes penalty.


=== Leg 5 (Romania → Namibia) ===

Airdates: 4 & 5 July 2016

Bucharest (Rin Grand Hotel) (Pit Start)
 Bucharest (Henri Coandă International Airport) to Windhoek, Namibia (Hosea Kutako International Airport)
Khomas Region (Okapuka Ranch)
Windhoek (Angola Street – Tyre Shop)
Windhoek (Angola Street – Uukwandongo Nampadhi Shoe Repairs)
Windhoek (Town Square near Clock Tower)
Windhoek (Windhoek Public Library)
Windhoek (Christ Church)  
Additional tasks
At Okapuka Ranch, teams had to vote for the team they wanted to Yield. Then, teams had to learn how to be tour guides on a safari. To do so, teams had to learn facts about different animals that could be seen on the safari. Every time teams spotted an animal, they had to correctly say the facts to the tourists. Once teams had properly described three animals, the ranger would hand them their next clue.
In the next task at Okapuka Ranch, both team members had to don a giraffe costume, which included a large head, stilts as back legs and crutches as front legs. Then, teams had to hang five baskets on top of a wooden structure using the tongue attached to their costume's head to receive their next clue.
The next clue instructed the teams to properly set up a campsite, including a shower, following the example campsite. Once the ranger was satisfied with the team's work, they would receive their next clue. Before leaving the Okapuka Ranch, teams would find out if they were Yielded.
At the tyre shop on Angola Street, teams had to move five car tires from the tyre shop to a shoe repairs store. Each team member had to keep both legs inside two different tires at all times, with only one free tire that could be moved. Once teams reached the Uukwandongo Nampadhi Shoe Repairs store with the five tires, they would receive their next clue from the shoemaker.
At the Town Square, teams had to convince eight locals to jump rope with them. They would start with one person jumping the rope, then would add another person without stopping the rope until there were eight people jumping simultaneously for at least three cycles to receive their next clue. If teams had to stop the rope, they would have to start again.
At the Windhoek Public Library, teams had to correctly place labels of African countries on a big map, with only the countries' capitals written on it. Teams could ask locals for help or do it entirely by themselves. If teams received the approval from a teacher, they could make their way to the next Pit Stop: Christ Church. Before checking in, the Yielded teams had to wait out a 15-minute penalty.


=== Leg 6 (Namibia) ===

Airdates: 11, 12 & 17 July 2016

Erongo Region (Moon Valley – Damara Tribe Village)
Swakopmund (Swakopmund Salt Company)
Swakopmund (Namib High School) 
Erongo Region (Dorob National Park – Matterhorn Sand Dune (Dune # 7)) 
Erongo Region (Dorob National Park)
Swakopmund (Palm Beach)
Swakopmund (Swakopmund Hotel)  
For this leg's Duel, teams had to play a giant game of cardboard Jenga at Namib High School. The team who knocked over the tower in each match lost, and their opponents would win the next clue. The team that lost the final Duel had to wait out a 15-minute penalty.
In this leg's Roadblock, one team member had to ride a zorb down the slope of the dune, aiming for a 10-piece set of giant bowling pins. Team members could look into a pouch on the bottom of any pins they knocked over. Only one of the pins had their next clue, but it would be placed in a random pin every time the pins were set up. After they found the clue, their partner would ride a sandboard down the dune to meet up with them.

Additional tasks
At the Damara Tribe Village, teams would first have to participate in an initiation ritual so they could join the tribe. They had to dress in traditional clothing and perform a welcome dance. They then had to drink a foul-tasting concoction presented by the village leader to receive their next clue.
At the Damara Tribe Village's reservoir, teams had to fill up a bucket with water and use two crossed poles, one held by each team member, to carry the bucket 1.5 km (0.93 mi) through the desert without dropping it. If they hadn't spilled too much water, teams would receive their next clue. Teams would then have to use wood, grass and elephant dung to light a fire using the tribe's methods to receive their next clue. Finally, teams made their way to the tribe's food storage area, where they would find 18 holes in the ground used by the tribe to store and cool food. There, teams had to complete a memory game, with each team member reaching into a hole and pulling up whatever disgusting object was inside. Teams had to try and make a match and had to try again if they did not make a match. After teams successfully made nine matches, they would receive their next clue. Once they had completed these challenges, they had to vote for the team that they wanted to Yield.
At the Swakopmund Salt Company, teams had to enter the pink-colored artificial lake, where they would dig up salt crystals from the lake bed. Once they had harvested 25 kg (55 lb) of salt, they would then add this to a cart that already had salt, bringing the total to 50 kg (110 lb), and had to push this cart along a 1 km (0.62 mi) route. After delivering the salt, teams would receive their next clue, which instructed them to search through a gigantic mountain of salt for their next clue.
After completing the Duel, teams traveled to the intersection of Hendrik Witbooi & Woermann to find out if they were Yielded.
After completing the Roadblock, teams then had to drive dune buggies to a set of 'chill tents', where they would take a mandatory break from racing, during which they could enjoy some fruit and juice, before they would receive their next clue. Teams would then have to find an oasis, a wading pool set up next to a lone tree. Teams would find five ropes, only one of which would lead up a very steep dune to the oasis and their next clue. Teams had to follow the ropes, trying each one until they found the correct rope.
At Palm Beach, teams would find a slingshot set up with five targets. Each target had a picture of a different Swakopmund landmark: the Swakopmund Lighthouse, the Swakopmund Hotel, the Palm Beach Jetty, the National Marine Aquarium, and the Woermann Tower. Teams had to hit the target of the location they thought the Pit Stop was, after which they would travel to this location to see if the Pit Stop was actually there. The Pit Stop was at the Swakopmund Hotel. Before checking in, the Yielded teams would have to wait their 15-minutes penalty.


=== Leg 7 (Namibia → Tanzania) ===

Airdates: 19, 24 & 26 July 2016

 Walvis Bay (Walvis Bay Airport) to Zanzibar City, Zanzibar, Tanzania (Abeid Amani Karume International Airport)
Zanzibar City (Seaweed Centre)
 Michamvi Kae (Sunset Bay Resort) 
Pingwe (Kichanga Lodge)
Zanzibar City (Stone Town – British School of Zanzibar)
Zanzibar City (Stone Town – Old Dispensary)
Zanzibar City (Stone Town – Darajani Market)
Zanzibar City (Stone Town – Freddie Mercury House)
Zanzibar City (Stone Town – Stone Town Hotel)
Kiembe Samaki (Protea Pier)
Nungwi (Baraka Natural Aquarium)
Nungwi (Essque Zalu Pier) 
This leg's Detour was a choice between ברמן (Barmen) or מלצר (Waiter). In Barmen, teams would have to figure out how to pour liquid into seven stacked glasses at once, four in yellow on the bottom and three in red on the top, to receive their next clue. In Waiter, one team member had to pick up a serving tray filled with fruit and glasses of tropical drinks. They would then stand on the end of a paddleboard while their partner paddled them out to a boat. If they could deliver the food and drink without spilling anything, teams would receive their next clue.

Additional tasks
At the Seaweed Centre, teams had to wade into the water and harvest seaweed from a seaweed farm. They would have to pull the plants off of 25 lines, making sure to replace the posts in exactly the same positions. Once all of the seaweed was harvested and hauled to shore, teams would receive their next clue. They then had to head to a nearby café, where they voted for which team they would like to U-Turn.
At the Kichanga Lodge, teams would have their picture taken by a professional photographer on the beach. They had to follow the photographer's instructions to create many stunning and vibrant pictures. Towards the end of the session, teams would be surprised by the addition of a live snake, which would be draped over their body. They had to remain still and smile for a few more pictures with the snake to receive their next clue.
At the British School of Zanzibar, teams had to learn how to perform a dance and then film a music video to Shakira's "Waka Waka (This Time for Africa)" to the satisfaction of the choreographer to receive their next clue.
At the Old Dispensary, teams would be given a sample of a spice mix called 'al-Merotz'. One team member would smell the mixture, while their partner would taste samples of 20 available ingredients. Teams then had to recreate the spice by using the same eight ingredients to get their next clue.
At the Darajani Market, teams had to find a marked stand, where they would find 80 newspaper cones filled with nuts and beans. Teams had to open the cones and then eat whatever was inside, while looking for their next clue hidden on one of the newspapers and featured a photograph of Ron Shahar. The clue asked them in Arabic, "اين موجود فريدي؟" (Where is Freddy?), directing them to the Freddie Mercury House.
At the Stone Town Hotel, teams had to search through a hotel room for their next clue, which was hidden inside a roll of toilet paper and underneath a box of tissues.
At the Protea Pier, teams had to walk out to the end of a log jutting out over the water and retrieve four flags from the end to receive their next clue. There was only one log available, so teams would have to form a queue.
At the Baraka National Aquarium, teams had to enter a pool full of turtles and search the murky water for a small turtle figurine, which had the location of the Pit Stop written on the bottom.


=== Leg 8 (Tanzania → India) ===

Airdates: 31 July, 2 & 7 August 2016

 Zanzibar City (Abeid Amani Karume International Airport) to Delhi, India (Indira Gandhi International Airport)
Delhi (Ghazipur Fish Market)
Delhi (Agrasen Ki Baoli)
 Delhi (Paharganj Main Bazaar Market) 
Delhi (Kikar Nero Place)
Delhi (Cafe 21 Bakery)
Delhi (Shuba Lagam Wedding Hall)
Delhi (Dimple Farm)
Delhi (Institute For Driving and Traffic)
Delhi (Madame Chang Fabric)
Delhi (Humayun's Tomb – Isa Khan's Tomb) 
This leg's Detour was a choice between אכיל (Edible) or שביר (Fragile). In Edible, teams had to find a specific food vendor service, where they would pick up a rickshaw filled with tins of food. They had to move it through the crowded market to the Heena Beauty Parlor to receive their next clue. In Fragile, teams had to load clay pots onto a cart and then transport them through the crowded market. If they could deliver at least 25 unbroken pots, teams would receive their next clue.

Additional tasks
At the Ghazipur Fish Market, each team member had to load five live catfish into a basket, then carry the basket on their head across the crowded market. Once 20 fish were delivered to a waiting vendor, teams would receive their next clue. After this task, they voted for which team they would like to U-Turn.
At Agrasen Ki Baoli, teams had to look under the turbans of the men walking in the step well for one with a tiny Amazing Race flag attached to the inside, which could be exchanged for their next clue. If they didn't find a flag, they would have to spend at least 10 minutes rewrapping the man's turban.
At Kikar Nero Place, one team member had to wear a sandwich board shaped like a giant pita bread. Their partner had to stand behind a designated line and use a device to squirt amba sauce at them. The one in the sandwich board had to try and catch the sauce in the receptacle located inside. Once the receptacle was full, teams would receive their next clue.
At Cafe 21 Bakery, teams received an invitation to a wedding and had to pick up a 30 kg (66 lb) wedding cake and carry it by hand to Shuba Lagam Wedding Hall, where the wedding was taking place. At the wedding, they would take part in an Indian wedding tradition where the team members would be tied together by their hands. They then had to look through a huge pile of wedding presents for one with their next clue inside. Some of the presents had cards inside with extra tasks the teams needed to perform before they continued searching. This included singing the bride a Hebrew bridal song, feeding each other an entire 'level' of wedding cake, dancing with the grandmothers, dancing with 10 guests in a conga line, and toasting the bride and groom.
At Dimple Farm, teams would be shown nine advanced yoga poses. Team members would have to perform three of the poses and hold each pose for at least 10 seconds to receive their next clue.
At the Institute for Driving and Traffic Research, both team members had to pass a rickshaw driving exam to receive their next clue.
At Madame Chang Fabric, one team member had to observe a board containing a series of colored handprints. They would then pick up two balloons and run through a crowd, who would pelt them with colored dyes like in the Holi Festival. Once they reached their partner, they would break the balloons on them to see what color paint was inside. If it was a color they needed, they would instruct their partner to make a handprint in the correct spot on the diagram with that color. If teams made a mistake, they had to start over from the beginning. Once the diagram was properly recreated, teams would receive their next clue.
At Isa Khan's Tomb, teams would pay tribute to Slumdog Millionaire by playing a simplified version of Who Wants to be a Millionaire?. Teams would be provided with two lifelines and had to answer three multiple choice questions. However, these lifelines had to be set up ahead of time. In order to use 50/50, teams needed to obtain two 50 rupee bills from a local (not a 100 rupee bill). Teams would give these bills to the host in order to use the lifeline. In order to use Phone a Friend, teams needed to find a local willing to let them use their phone to call long-distance to Israel. Teams would then call a designated number, connected to a phone sitting in the middle of a walkway in Israel. Any random Israel local could pick up the phone and help the team with their question. Teams were asked the population of India, which of four board games was invented in India, and a time zone question involving the time in Israel and New Delhi. If any question was answered incorrectly, teams would have to serve a 15-minute penalty. After the three questions had been answered, teams were directed to the Pit Stop at Humayun's Tomb.


=== Leg 9 (India → South Korea) ===

Airdates: 9, 14, 16 & 21 August 2016

Delhi (Holiday Inn) (Pit Start)
 Delhi (Indira Gandhi International Airport) to Seoul, South Korea (Incheon International Airport)
Gwacheon (Seoul Land)
Seoul (Noryangjin Fisheries Wholesale Market)
Seoul (Yangcheon Haenuri Sports Park) 
Seoul (Kolon Sporex)
Seoul (Namsangol Hanok Village)
Seoul (Gyeongbokgung – Gwanghwamun Gate)
Seoul (Luxury Karaoke)
Seoul (Seocho District – Samsung D'light)
Seoul (Su Noraebang)
Seoul (Sogang University)
Seoul (Changcheon-dong)
Seoul (Olympic Park)  
For this leg's Duel, one team member had to dress a mouse and the team member from the opposing team dressed as a cat. Their respective partners had to guide them through a maze to achieve their objectives – for the Mouse team, they had to find the block of cheese and for the Cat team, they had to find the mouse. Whichever team achieved their objective first won the point. The first team to win two matches received their next clue, while the losers had to wait for the next team to arrive. The team that lost the final Duel had to wait out a 15-minute penalty.

Additional tasks
At Seoul Land, teams had to ride a rollercoaster and look for a complex mathematical equation that was being held up on a sign as they rode the ride. If they solved it by the end of the ride, they would receive their next clue. Otherwise, they had to ride the rollercoaster again.
At Noryangjin Fisheries Wholesale Market, there were six boxes with live seafood in them, each with a number written on them. Teams had to transport their given number of seafood items across the market to a vendor to receive their next clue. There was a 30-minute time limit to transport their items.
At Kolon Sporex, teams had to take part in a Korean game show, in which one team member was wrapped in bubble wrap and their partner had to paddle them like a boat to move eleven floating puzzle pieces so that they would form the flag of South Korea and receive their next clue.
At Namsangol Hanok Village, teams had to find the one piece of plastic food that was hidden on a buffet of Korean delicacies to receive their next clue. Anything teams picked up had to be eaten.
At the Gwanghwamun Gate, teams had to find the five cards written in Korean characters from the ninety that were written in Chinese and Japanese. Then, they had to ask locals to help them work out what the five characters spelt – their next destination. They can only take five cards with them at a time.
At Luxury Karaoke, teams take part in the bamboo game called tuho. They were given twenty bamboo sticks and had to successfully throw five of them into a narrow pot. If they landed five in the pot, they received their next clue. If not, they had to spend 10 minutes singing karaoke, before attempting the task again. After teams finished this task, they had to vote for which team they wished to Yield.
At Samsung D'light, teams had to search the ground floor for a message on a screen from the host, who directed them to the second floor of the store. There, they were surprised with a video chat with loved ones from home before receiving their next clue.
At Su Noraebang, teams had to find "K-Food Express", where they would pick up a cart and load it with a serving of Israeli food. Their first serving contained pita with hummus, a falafel, and a spicy egg. Teams had to convince a single Korean local to eat all of this food, otherwise they would have to go back and get a new dish. Then, teams would have to find a local to eat a single serving of gefilte fish to receive their next clue.
At Sogang University, one team member were given a listing of six electronic cables that were required to hook up a home theatre system, while their partner had to find them in a huge tangle of wires. The team member looking at the sign had to stand behind a line and could not physically help, while the one untangling the wires could not see the sign. Once the six wires were retrieved and used to properly hook up the home theatre system, it would turn on and display the team's next destination. Here, teams would discover if they received the Yield.
At Changcheon-Dong, teams would observe a photograph of Miss Korea 2015 Lee Min-ji and had to search the nearby streets for her. Once they thought they had found her, they had to hand her a tiara and sash and say a Korean phrase meaning "You are very beautiful". If they had found the real Miss Korea, teams would receive their next clue, directing them to the Pit Stop at Olympic Park. There, Joezi & Alex had to serve their Yield penalty before checking-in at the mat.


=== Leg 10 (South Korea → Vietnam) ===

Airdates: 30 August, 4 & 6 September 2016

Seoul (Millennium Hilton Seoul) (Pit Start)
 Seoul (Incheon International Airport) to Hanoi, Vietnam (Noi Bai International Airport)
Hanoi (Hanoi Opera House)
Hanoi (Hoàn Kiếm Lake) 
Hanoi (Trúc Bạch Lake) 
Hanoi (Hau Hoc Van) 
Hanoi (Temple of Literature)
Hanoi (Lenin Park)
Hanoi (Nghia Mai (in Vietnamese))
Hanoi (Thu Le Park Zoo)
Hanoi (Huong Lien Bun Cha Restaurant)
Hanoi (Vietnam Museum of Ethnology)
Hanoi (Imperial Citadel of Thăng Long) 
This season's final Detour was a choice between איטי (Slow) or מהיר (Fast). In Slow, teams had to perform 30 minutes of tai chi to receive their next clue. In Fast, teams had to perform cardio aerobics to receive their next clue.
For this season's final Duel, one team member from each team had to balance themselves on a thin pole whilst trying to hit their opponent off of the pole with a pillow to score a point. The first team to score two points received their next clue, while the loser had to wait for the next team. The team that lost the final Duel had to wait out a 15-minute penalty.

Additional tasks
At the Hanoi Opera House, teams had to stand on the roof and watch the busy roundabout underneath the building, looking for seven numbers on vehicles and people below. Once they had all seven, they had to head to a nearby motorcycle parking lot and find one of a few number plates with all seven numbers on it to receive their next clue. This lot was also where they had to vote for which team they wished to U-Turn.
At Trúc Bạch Lake Marina, teams had to ride in a swan boat, where they took a mandatory break from the leg.
At the Temple of Literature, teams would pick up a pair of shoulder harnesses with baskets and fill them with rice. They would then carry the rice along a marked path around the temple until they reached a set of scales, where they would weigh their rice. Once teams reached a total of 284 kg (626 lb) of rice – the amount that an average Vietnamese family consumes in a year – they would receive their next clue.
At Lenin Park, teams would find a series of blocks on the ground. One team member would stand on the starting block, while their partner would retrieve bamboo ladders of varying lengths from a large pile. They could only lay down ladders if they fit perfectly between a pair of blocks. Teams needed to find a way to use their limited amount of ladders to cross all of the blocks to reach their next clue.
At Nghia Mai, teams had to find a marked coal shop, where team would use local tools to make 30 coal bricks, a traditional Vietnamese fuel source, using wet coal. Once complete, they had to use tongs to pick up four bricks, two per team member, and carry them through the neighborhood without damaging them or putting them down. Once they delivered them to a marked vendor, she would use them to power her stoves and give the teams the next clue.
At Thu Le Park Zoo, teams had to learn how to perform a traditional Chinese lion dance. During the dance, teams had to jump across a series of platforms while wearing the lion costume, taking care not to fall off. If successful, teams would receive their next clue.
At Huong Lien Bun Cha Restaurant, teams had to eat the entire contents of a foul-smelling durian, freshly picked off of the tree, to receive their next clue.
At the Vietnam Museum of Ethnology, one team member had to look through 1500 Vietnamese nón lá hats for one with a tiny Amazing Race flag on the underside to receive their next clue. For every hat they picked up, they would have to place it on the head of their partner, continuing to stack them up higher and higher. If the hats fell off of their head at any point, the team would have to serve a 10-minute penalty before continuing.


=== Leg 11 (Vietnam → Cambodia) ===

Airdates: 11, 12 & 13 September 2016

 Hanoi (Noi Bai International Airport) to Siem Reap, Cambodia (Siem Reap International Airport)
 Siem Reap (Siem Reap Harbor) to Tonlé Sap (Dock)
 Tonlé Sap (School)
 Tonlé Sap (Kho Andeth)
 Tonlé Sap (Houseboat)
 Siem Reap (Wat Damnak to Wat Preah Prom Rath)
Sokha (Sita's Farm)
Sokha (Basket Selling Stall) 
Sokha (Rice Farm)
Siem Reap (9th Street)
Siem Reap (Angkor Wat)
Siem Reap (Wat Tang Tok)
Siem Reap (Baphuon Temple)  
In this season's final Roadblock, one team member had to ride a bike laden with a very heavy load of fish traps along the main road until they reached a farm. There, they had to search through all of the fish traps for the one with a small Amazing Race flag attached to receive their next clue.

Additional tasks
At the school, teams would spend time with the pupils for a short time before receiving their next clue.
At Kho Andeth, teams had to follow a set of precise instructions to build their own bamboo raft. They would then use it to solve a real-life version of a classic brain teaser. Teams would be given one of two sets of figures. They would either have a lion, pig, tortoise and bananas, or they would have a tiger, rooster, parrot and corn. Teams had to transport the predator, the farm animal, and the food over to a nearby houseboat, but could only carry one item at a time. The predator could not be left alone with the farm animal or it would be eaten. Likewise, the farm animal could not be left alone with the food, or it would be eaten. The tortoise and parrot were not part of the puzzle, but teams were not told this. Once teams solved the puzzle, they would receive their next clue.
On the houseboat, teams would spend a predetermined amount of time taking a break from racing, during which time they could eat tropical fruit and rest on hammocks, before receiving their next clue.
At Wat Damnak, teams had to observe an intricate Buddha shrine, memorizing where all of the little pieces were located. They would then take it apart and load it onto a cyclo to take it to their next destination.
At Wat Preah Prom Rath, teams had to assemble the Buddha shrine back together so that it matched the configuration that they saw at Wat Damnak to receive their next clue. Teams were free to return to Wat Danmak at any point to check the example. After receiving their clue, teams voted for who they would like to receive this leg's Yield.
After the Roadblock, teams had to use a basket to catch fish in the farm's pond and then reach in through a hole in the top to pick them up with their bare hands. Once they caught five fish, teams would receive their next clue. Teams would then discover if they were Yielded.
At Sita's Farm, teams had to herd 500 ducks along a marked field and bring them to a lake, where they would rest with the ducks for 10 minutes. They then had to herd all 500 of them back to their holding pen to receive their next clue.
On 9th Street, teams had to set up a food stall and fill a pot with oil to prepare for deep frying. Teams would then cook with the ingredients they had been given. Unbeknownst to the teams, these ingredients were beetles, crickets, worms and spiders. One team member had to pick up the bugs with their bare hands and pass them to their team member, who would deep fry them. Once everything was cooked and prepared, teams had to sell the food they had just made. In total, teams would have to earn 20,000 riels. Any customer they sold food to would have to take a bite of the food to prove that they would not just throw away what they had bought. Once teams had earned enough money, they would receive their next clue.
At Angkor Wat, teams would find five different offerings on the outskirts of the temple and had to choose one. They then had to climb a very steep set of stairs to reach one of three monks and present their offering. Each monk would only accept a single type of offering. If teams brought the wrong kind, the monk would say a Buddhist proverb to them in English, which would subtly hint at what they wanted. Once all three monks received their proper offerings, teams would receive their next clue.
At Wat Tang Tok, teams had to pick one of 50 bowls of coins and then drop one coin into each of the 102 small cups set up near the Buddha statue. If teams chose a bowl with exactly 102 coins, they would receive their next clue. Otherwise, they would have to try again with a different bowl.
Additional note
While in Tonlé Sap, teams travelled by rowboat.


=== Leg 12 (Cambodia → Australia) ===

Airdates: 18, 19 & 20 September 2016

Siem Reap (Angkor Century Resort and Spa) (Pit Start)
 Siem Reap (Siem Reap International Airport) to Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (Melbourne Airport)
Melbourne (Brighton Beach)
Melbourne (Albert Park – Melbourne Sports & Aquatic Centre)
Melbourne (Carlton – Royal Exhibition Building)
Melbourne (Docklands Pier – City Marina)
Melbourne (Carlton – Melbourne Museum)
Melbourne (City Centre – Bourke Street)
Melbourne (Southbank – National Gallery of Victoria)
Melbourne (South Melbourne – Chez Dré)
Geelong (South Geelong – Simonds Stadium)
Geelong (Geelong Town Hall) 
Additional tasks
At Brighton Beach, teams had to search Melbourne's iconic colorful beach huts for the one which could be unlocked with a key included with the clue. Then, they had to look amongst many items on a beach each with a sticker corresponding to a hut. If the sticker matched the teams' hut, they would receive their next clue, otherwise teams had to carry the item to whichever hut was on the sticker before grabbing another item.
At Melbourne Sports and Aquatic Centre, teams had to surf on a standing wave for 2 minutes and 50 seconds total. Each team member was required to surf for at least one minute. When the team's combined times reached the necessary length, they would their next clue.
At the Royal Exhibition Building, one team member had to roll their partner, who was strapped inside a giant wheel, a distance of 300 metres (980 ft) around the courtyard within a five-minute limit. Once they successfully completed the course, they would get their next clue.
At the Docklands City Marina, teams changed into a kangaroo costume with spring shoes and sorted through 20 photos of landmarks, foods, and celebrities. If teams correctly chose the 12 pictures that were Australian, the judge would give them their next clue.
At Melbourne Museum, teams had to play a giant trivia board game, which was divided into the countries they visited during the season. Then, teams had to roll the dice to advance their token to a space where they would draw a card which contained a question and a penalty related to the leg from that space's country, with the exception of the Australia spaces which contained questions about previous seasons of HaMerotz LaMillion. If teams answered the question correctly they could roll the dice again; however, if their answer was wrong teams had to complete the penalty task before rolling again. Additionally, each country had a space where, if landed on, teams drew a card that would instruct them to move their token to a specific country. Once the teams reached the end of the board, a man dressed as Captain Cook would hand them their next clue.
The next clue where teams instructed to find the neighbour Charlene Robinson at Bourke Street, which they had to figure out was a character in the soap opera Neighbours portrayed by Kylie Minogue. Then, they had to find a Kylie Minogue impersonator, who would sing "Especially for You" for them and give the teams a tablet with a special message from loved ones back at home. When finished, the impersonator would give teams their next clue.
At the National Gallery of Victoria, one team member had to hang upside down in a harness and spray paint a picture using stencils. The team member on the ground had to pull ropes to move them in each direction. After painting with two stencils, team members would swap places for the last stencil. Once they done, the art director would hand them their next clue.
At Chez Dré, one team member had to don a screen over their eyes that showed video from a camera that was on their partner's head. The team member with the screen had to prepare and decorate a Pavlova cake to the standards of a baker to receive their next clue.
At Simonds Stadium, teams had to count the number of players running around the stadium's pitch. Then, they would use this number to find a seat with a clue envelope attached to the chair. If the number was correct, they would find their next clue. If the number was wrong, the envelope instructed teams to do exercises as a penalty before trying again.


=== Leg 13 (Australia) ===

Airdate: 26 September 2016

 Melbourne (Docklands Pier to St Kilda – St Kilda Beach)
Melbourne (City Centre – Federation Square)
Melbourne (Docklands – Melbourne Star)
Healesville (Hedgend Maze) 
Additional tasks
At Docklands Pier, teams had to choose a yacht and sail towards their next destination at St Kilda Beach.
At St Kilda Beach, teams had to pick a circle of flags, containing the names of the cities visited this season and the word for "hello" in the city's language. They would be attached by the waist with an elastic band with a globe hanging on a wire in between team member. They had to position themselves carefully, because if the globe moved out of the circle flags in the center, they would serve the one-minute penalty. Teams had match each city with the way to say 'hello' in the city's country. The correct answers were:

Once these words were correctly matched, teams would receive their next clue.
At Federation Square, teams had to gather 50 people and give each them a shirt of a particular color. They would then proceed to the grounds and assemble a group to say the phrase, "!שם הקבוצה) היא הקבוצה הכי טובה בעולם) ((Team name) is the best team in the world!)". Once the crowd recited the phrase, teams would assemble a director, cameraman and sound technician to shoot a short video that would explain why they should win a million and would end with a crowd shouting the phrase. If the video was approved, the director would give them their next clue.
At the Melbourne Star, teams had to choose one of the cars at the ferris wheel and had to climb up to the girders into the opposite direction. Once teams made into a halfway mark, they would transfer to another car from the ladder to the outside one. Once at the top, they could climb into one of the cars and had to wait to go back to the ground, where they would receive their next clue.
At Hedgend Maze, teams had to navigate a huge extreme maze that spanned the length of one kilometre (0.62 mi) to the Finish Line at the end. There, teams would find the empty Pit Stop mat and another clue box, which informed them that they had finished and that they had to fly to Israel and learn their ultimate placement at Ariel Sharon Park.


== Ratings ==
Data courtesy of the Israeli Rating Committee, according to individuals aged 4+ from the general population.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website (in Hebrew)

The  Initiative Pro Mitteleuropa - Middleeuropean Initiative  (also Forum Fürstenfeld) in short ("IPM") is an international think tank, based in Vienna.
President of IPM is Philipp Depisch from Austria.


== History ==
The foundation took place in Vienna on Nov. 20th 2010.
On  January 12, 2012, IPM was a co-organizer of an international forum in Vienna, which was attended by representatives from 14 states. 
From August 23 to August 25, 2013, IPM International and IPM Slovenia conducted the first "local event" of YEPP together with the "Youth of the Slovenian Democratic Party" (SDM) in Ptuj/Slovenia. There the participants from Hungary, Austria and Slovenia discussed the topic of youth employment.
IPM again co-hosted a large international conference on July 2, 2014, in Vienna. 110 guests from 16 nations discussed the issue of "European energy policy".
IPM completed its focus on "Energy" in 2014 with a conference in Fürstenfeld/Austria on Oct. 10th. The conference was preceded by an article of Austria's second largest newspaper Kleine Zeitung, introducing IPM and its president.
On April 23, 2016, IPM celebrated its five-year anniversary in Klosterneuburg together with Johannes Schmuckenschlager, president of the Austrian winegrower federation.
Together with DEMYC the Middleeuropean Initiative conducted an international congress on "Migration - Challenges and Opportunities" in July 2016 in Graz/Austria including almost 70 participants from 20 different countries (among others Armenia, Irak, Israel, Russia, Ukraine). During this congress both organisations adopted a joint resolution against a possible membership of Turkey in the European Union.
General meeting and elections again took place on March 11, 2017, in the Austrian Parliament. During this event the "Middle-Europe-Award" was introduced. With this IPM wants to honor special people who have gained earnings to the European peace project.
A meeting with former UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon was the highlight of the IPM "summit" in Alpbach/Austria on August 27, 2018.
Elections again took place on May 15, 2021. In March 2022 the Middleeuropean Initiative organized a transport of medicines to Lviv, Ukraine.


== Self-image and structure ==
The IPM sees itself as a "network platform", sets up environmental priorities and supports events in the fields of politics, culture and sports. The organization is based in Vienna.


== Christa Pollak (Middle Europe -) Award winners ==
2017: Mikuláš Dzurinda, former prime minister of Slovakia and president of the Centre for European Studies.
2018: Franz Majcen, former president of the state parliament of Styria.
2019 Boris Pahor, Slovenian/Italian writer.
2020 Thomas Goppel, chairman of CSU "Seniorenunion" and former Bavarian state minister.
2021 Rainer-Bernd Wolschner, physician.
2023 Walther Ryzienski, historian.
2024 Kurt Jakomet, former president of Junge Alpenregion.
2026 Thomas Einwallner, former Austrian politician.


== References ==


== External links ==
Middleeuropean Initiative's channel on YouTube

William Devereux of Frome was a member of a prominent Herefordshire family during the reign of Edward II and Edward III. He was an important retainer of Roger Mortimer, 1st Earl of March and Queen Isabella, and a knight of the Bath.


== Childhood and ancestry ==
William Devereux was born about 1293, the son of John Devereux of Frome and Constance Burnell. His paternal grandfather, William Devereux Baron of Lyonshall, had John Devereux of Frome  by his second wife, Lucy Burnell. This junior line's coat of arms was: Gules, a fesse and in chief three roundlets Argent. This was the ancestral arms of Devereux with the tinctures reversed to distinguish it from the one used by the senior line, Devereux of Bodenham (descended from the Baron's first wife, Alice de Grandison).
William's father, John Devereux, was granted Letters of Protection for service in Scotland with Roger Mortimer on 26 May 1306. His father died in 1310, and his mother married Henry de Mortimer, Lord of Chelmarsh, as her second husband. This coupled with the death of his paternal grandfather in 1314  led to William Devereux becoming a retainer of the Mortimer family.
Rising debt related to the terms of the Dictum of Kenilworth had led the Baron Devereux to financial arrangements permitting the alienation of Lyonshall Castle, the caput of the Barony. William's cousin, Stephen Devereux of Bodenham and Burghope tried to regain Lyonshall through seizing it by force in 1305, and bringing suit for its return. Stephen's plea was denied, as he had no standing while the Baron was still alive. Both branches of the Devereux family would seek and contest the ownership of Lyonshall for the next 100 years.


== Career ==
The Devereux family's alignment against Edward II during the killing of his first favorite, Piers Gaveston, probably contributed to their failure to retain their Barony upon the death of William Devereux's grandfather in 1314. William Devereux was granted Letters of Protection for service in Scotland under John de Somery on 20 July 1319. He probably was present at the Battle of Myton on 20 September 1219.
As later the Despenser War played out, Roger Mortimer, 1st Earl of March was captured in January 1322, and imprisoned in the Tower of London. As William Devereux was his retainer, this was probably a factor in keeping him out of the Battle of Boroughbridge on 16 March 1322. Edward II's victory led to the death of Batholomew de Badlesmere and William Touchet, and brought Lyonshall Castle back into the King's hands.
William's cousin, Stephen Devereux of Bodenham and Burghope, was called in 1323 for a jury in Hereford to judge Adam Orleton, Bishop of Hereford's complicity in the rebellion of Roger de Mortimer during this time, and his son, John Devereux of Manne, was among the men testifying against Orleton. Although Stephen Devereux was also in the party opposing the king's favorites, the Devereux of Bodenham bore a grudge against Mortimer that had its roots in his being granted their lands under the Dictum of Kenilworth. This placed William Devereux further at odds with the Devereux's of Bodenham. When Roger de Mortimer escaped to France in August 1323, William Devereux remained loyal, but found himself among those suffering royal disapproval.
Edward II granted Lyonshall to John de Felton on 20 March 1326. When Roger Mortimer and Queen Isabella landed in England on 24 September 1326, William Devereux immediately rose in their support. He seized Lyonshall castle by force, and in the process usurped the rights of the Devereux's of Bodenham. Following the abdication of Edward II on 24 January 1327, John de Felton requested its return, but under Mortimer's influence he was granted another castle of equal value. Inquiries into the rightful owner of the castle determined this to be Giles de Badlesmere, a minor who was heir of the Bartholomew killed above, but Devereux retained possession.
With the ascendency of Mortimer, William Devereux was rewarded by his creation as a knight of the bath on 20 January 1327. When St. Briavel's Castle came into the queen's hands, she created William Devereux Keeper of the Castle and the Forest of Dean on 20 January 1327. Devereux was granted Letters of Protection for service in Scotland with Roger Mortimer on 4 June 1327, and probably was present at the Battle of Stanhope Park in August 1327. On 18 May 1329 William Devereux was appointed Justice of the Peace for Herefordshire.
On 19 October 1330, Roger Mortimer and Queen Isabella were seized at Nottingham Castle, and Edward III asserted his independence. With the fall of Mortimer, William Devereux also lost the favor of the crown.  On 21 December 1330, he was instructed to relinquish St. Briavel's Castle to Robert de Sapi. On 18 January 1330 following a petition questioning Devereux's seizure of Lyonshall by Margaret, widow of Bartholomew de Badlesmere, Lyonshall was taken back into the king's hand. Devereux petitioned the king in January 1331 for permission to retain his control of Lyonshall manor. He claimed that his grandparents, Baron William Devereux and his wife Lucy, had granted the manor in remainder to his father, John Devereux, and the heirs of his body. He cited that Lyonshall had been alienated following a grant for term of life disinheriting him, and now resided in the king's hand following the death of William Touchet. His petition was denied, and the manor granted to Giles de Badlesmere as Bartholomew's heir. William Devereux did not accept this, and would continue to stylize himself as Lord of Lyonshall through the remainder of his life.


== Marriage ==
William Devereux married a Miss Lacy, heiress of Frome Castle, about 1312.  They had a son: William Devereux his heir on 1 November 1314. His first wife died between 1314 and 1335.
He married (2nd) Margaret de Mortimer, the widow of Geoffrey de Cornewaille (died shortly before 1 June 1335).  Margaret was the daughter of Hugh de Mortimer, Knt., of Richard's Castle and his wife, Maud. They had no issue, and she married (3rd) before 9 Feb. 1338/9 Thomas de Hulhampton and died shortly before 25 December 1345.


== Death ==
William Devereux died in late 1336 and on 6 March 1337 the escheator was instructed to take his lands into the king's hand.  Inquisition Post Mortem testimony separated out the estates that were held by Margaret de Mortimer as dower from her previous marriage to Geoffrey de Cornewaille. Devereux also held for life a lease of the mill of Frome from the Prior and Canons of St. Leonards of Pyon, and this was surrendered upon his death.
His heir was identified as William, a son aged 22 years and more on the feast of All Saints (1 November) last. He was to receive Lower Hayton in Salop (held for 1/5th knight's fee from Joan, widow of Roger de Mortimer, earl of March); a messuage and 2 caracutes of land in Lawton (held for 1/6th knight's fee also from Joan); and two parts of Frome Haymond and a weir in the river Wye included in Margaret's dower with remainder to his heir (also held from Joan).


== General references ==
Brook, W. Holden. "Lords of the Central Marches: English Aristocracy and Frontier Society, 1087–1265." (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2008). Pages 46 to 136
Brydges, Sir Egerton. "Collins's Peerage of England; Genealogical, Biographical, and Historical. Greatly Augmented, and Continued to the Present Time." (London: F.C. and J. Rivington, Otridge and Son; J. Nichols and Co.; T. Payne, Wilkie and Robinson; J. Walker, Clarke and Sons; W. Lowndes, R. Lea, J. Cuthell, Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme, and Co.; White, Cochrane, and Co.; C. Law, Cadell and Davies; J. Booth, Crosby and Co.; J. Murray, J. Mawman, J. Booker, R. Scholey, J. Hatchard, R. Baldwin, Craddock and Joy; J. Fauldner, Gale, Curtis and Co.; Johnson and Co.; and G. Robinson, 1812). Volume VI, pages 1 to 22, Devereux, Viscount Hereford
Burke, Sir Bernard. A Genealogical History of the Dormant, Abeyant, Forfeited, and Extinct Peerages of the British Empire. (Baltimore: Genealogical Publishing Co., 1978). page 169, Devereux-Barons Devereux
Cokayne, G.E. Complete Baronetage. (New York; St. Martin's Press, 1984). Volume IV, page 296 to 306, Devereux or Deverose (including article by G.W. Watson)
Robinson, Charles J. "A History of the Castles of Herefordshire and their Lords." (Woonton: Logaston Press, 2002). Pages 70 to 72 (Frome Castle), 125 to 129 (Lyonshall Castle), and 195
Robinson, Charles J. "A History of the Mansions and Manors of Herefordshire." (Hereford: Books & Book Services LTD, 1872 republished).


== Specific references ==


== Notes ==

Sir William Coventry  (4 October 1627 – 23 June 1686) was an English statesman.


== Early life and Civil War ==
William was the son of the lord keeper Thomas Coventry, 1st Baron Coventry, by his second wife Elizabeth Aldersley. Coventry matriculated at The Queen's College, Oxford, at the age of fourteen. Owing to the outbreak of the English Civil War he was forced to abandon his studies, but according to Sir John Bramston, the younger he had a good tutor, and through travelling, he learned to speak the French language fluently. He was young at the time of the war, yet Clarendon wrote that he joined the army and had the command of a foot company and shortly afterwards went to France. Here he remained till all hopes of obtaining foreign assistance and of raising a new army had to be laid aside when he returned to England and kept aloof from the various royalist intrigues. When the prospect of a restoration appeared in 1660, Coventry hurried to Breda, was appointed secretary to James, Duke of York (who was Lord High Admiral of England) and headed the royal procession when Charles II entered London in triumph.


== Restoration of the monarchy ==
Coventry was returned to the Restoration Parliament of 1661 for Great Yarmouth, became commissioner for the navy in May 1662 and in 1663 was made Doctor of Civil Law at Oxford. His great talents were very soon recognised in parliament, and his influence as an official was considerable. His appointment was rather that of secretary to the admiralty than of personal assistant to the duke of York, and was one of large gains. Anthony Wood states that he collected a fortune of £60,000. Accusations of corruption in his naval administration, and especially during the Dutch war, were brought against him, but there is no real evidence for this. Samuel Pepys, in his diary, testifies to the excellence of Coventry's administration and to his zeal for reform and economy; his consistent praise for Coventry is in notable contrast to his strictures on his other colleagues, who are generally referred to as "knaves" or  "old fools".  Coventry's  ability and energy did little to avert the naval collapse, owing chiefly to financial mismanagement and ill-advised appointments.


== 1665–1669 ==
Coventry denied all responsibility for the Dutch War in 1665, and his repudiation is supported by Pepys; it was, moreover, contrary to his well-known political opinions. The war greatly increased his influence, and shortly after the Battle of Lowestoft, on 3 June 1665, he was knighted and made a Privy Councillor (26 June) and was subsequently admitted to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In 1667 he was appointed to the board of treasury to effect financial reforms. "I perceive," writes Pepys on 23 August 1667, "Sir William Coventry is the man and nothing done till he comes", and on his removal in 1669 the Duke of Albemarle, no friendly or partial critic, declares that "nothing now would be well done." His appointment came too late to ward off the naval disaster at Chatham the same year, the Raid on the Medway, and the national bankruptcy in 1672.
Coventry's rising influence had been from the first the cause of increasing jealousy to the Lord Chancellor, Clarendon, who disliked and discouraged the younger generation. Coventry resented this. He became the chief mover in the successful attack on Clarendon, but refused to take any part in his impeachment, although Clarendon never forgave him for what he saw as Coventry's betrayal. Two days after Clarendon's resignation (on 31 August), Coventry announced his intention of terminating his connection with the navy.
As a principal agent in effecting Clarendon's fall, he naturally acquired new power and influence, and was expected to be Clarendon's successor as first minister of the crown. Coventry retained merely his appointment at the treasury, and the brilliant but unscrupulous and incapable George Villiers, 2nd Duke of Buckingham, a favourite of the king, succeeded. The relations between the two men soon became unfriendly. Buckingham ridiculed Sir William's steady attention to business, and was annoyed at his opposition to Clarendon's impeachment. Coventry rapidly lost influence and was excluded from the cabinet council. His career depended now entirely on the support of the Duke of York: but ironically by bringing down Clarendon, Coventry had helped to weaken the influence of the Duke, Clarendon's son-in-law and principal defender.
Finally, in March 1669, Coventry challenged Buckingham for having written a play in which Sir William was ridiculed. Notice of the challenge reached the authorities through the duke's second, and Sir William was imprisoned in the Tower on 3 March and subsequently expelled from the privy council. He was superseded in the treasury on 11 March by Buckingham's favourite, Sir Thomas Osborne, and was at last released from the Tower on 21 March in disgrace. The real cause of his dismissal was the final adoption by Charles of the policy of subservience to France and desertion of the Netherlands and Protestant interests. Six weeks before Coventry's fall, the conference between Charles, James, Arlington, Clifford and Arundel had taken place, which resulted, a year and a half later in the Treaty of Dover. To such schemes, Sir William, with his steady hostility to France and active devotion to Protestantism, was doubtless a formidable opponent. He now withdrew definitely from official life, still retaining, however, his ascendancy in the House of Commons, and leading the party which condemned and criticised the reactionary and fatal policy of the government, his credit and reputation being rather enhanced than diminished by his dismissal.


== 1670s ==
In 1673 a pamphlet entitled England's appeal from the Private Cabal at Whitehall to the Great Council of the Nation by a true Lover of his Country went through five editions.  The anonymous work was universally ascribed to Sir William, and forcefully reflects his opinions on the French entanglement. In the great matter of the Indulgence, while refusing to discuss the limits of prerogative and liberty, he argued that the dispensing power of the crown could not be valid during the session of parliament, and criticised the manner of the declaration while approving its ostensible object. He supported the Test Act, but maintained a statesmanlike moderation amidst the tide of indignation rising against the government, and refused to take part in the personal attacks upon ministers, drawing upon himself the same unpopularity as his nephew, George Savile, 1st Marquess of Halifax, incurred later. In the same year, he denounced the alliance with France. He showed his appreciation for the loyalty Samuel Pepys had always displayed to him by vigorously supporting Pepys' right to sit in the House of Commons (to which he was elected in 1673), and ridiculing the claims (which were entirely unfounded) that Pepys was a Roman Catholic.
During the summer of 1674, he was again received at court. In 1675 he supported the bill to exclude Roman Catholics from both Houses, and also the measure to close the House of Commons to placemen; and he showed great activity in his opposition to the French connection, especially stigmatising the encouragement given by the government to the levying of troops for the French service. In May 1677 he voted for the Dutch alliance. Like most of his contemporaries, he accepted the story of the Popish Plot in 1678. Coventry several times refused the highest court appointments, and he was not included in Sir W. Temple's new-modelled council in April 1679.


== 1680s ==
In the exclusion question he favoured at first a policy of limitations, and on his nephew Halifax, who on his retirement became the leader of the moderate party, he enjoined prudence and patience, and greatly regretted the violence of the opposition which eventually excited a reaction and ruined everything. He refused to stand for the new parliament, and retired to his country residence at Minster Lovell near Witney, in Oxfordshire. He died unmarried on 23 June 1686, at Somerhill near Tunbridge Wells, where he had gone to take the waters, and was buried at Penshurst, where a monument was erected to his memory at St John the Baptist, Penshurst. In his will he ordered his funeral to be at small expense, and left £2000 to the French Protestant refugees in England, besides £3000 for the liberation of captives held by the Barbary Pirates in Algiers. He had shortly before his death already paid for the liberation of sixty slaves. He was much beloved and respected in his family circle, his nephew, Henry Savile, alluding to him in affectionate terms as "our dearest uncle and incomparable friend".


== Assessment ==
Writing Coventry's biography in the Encyclopædia Britannica, Eleventh Edition, Philip Chesney Yorke stated that "though Sir William Coventry never filled that place in the national administration to which his merit and exceptional ability clearly entitled him, his public life together with his correspondence are sufficient to distinguish him from amongst his contemporaries as a statesman of the first rank. Lord Halifax obviously derived from his honoured mentor those principles of government which, by means of his own brilliant intellectual gifts, originality and imaginative insight, gained further force and influence. Halifax owed to him his interest in the navy and his grasp of the necessity of a country of a powerful maritime force. He drew his antagonism to France, his religious tolerance, and wider religious views but firm Protestantism doubtless from the same source. Sir William was the original Trimmer".
Writing to his nephew Thomas Thynne, 1st Viscount Weymouth, while denying the authorship of The Character of a Trimmer, he says, "I have not been ashamed to own myself to be a trimmer... one who would sit upright and not overturn the boat by swaying too much to either side." He shared the Trimmers' dislike of party, urging Halifax in the exclusion contest not to be thrust by the opposition of his enemies into another party, but that he keep upon a national bottom which at length will prevail. His prudence was expressed in his perpetual unwillingness to do things which he could not undo. A singular independence of spirit, a breadth of mind which refused to be contracted by party formulas, a sanity which was proof against the contagion of national delirium, were equally characteristic of uncle and nephew. Sir William Coventry's conceptions of statesmanship, under the guiding hand of his nephew, largely inspired the future revolution settlement, and continued to be an essential condition of English political growth and progress.


== Bibliography ==
Besides the tract already mentioned, Coventry was the author of A Letter to Dr Burnet giving an Account of Cardinal Pools Secret Powers... (1685). The Character of a Trimmer, often ascribed to him, is now known to have been written by Lord Halifax. Notes concerning the Poor, and an essay concerning the decay of rents and the remedy, are among the Malet Papers (Hist. MSS. Comm. Ser. 5th Rep. app. 320 (a)) and Add. MSS. Brit. Mus. (cal. 1882–1887); an Essay concerning France (4th Rep. app. 229 (b)) and a Discourse on the Management of the Navy (23ob) are among the MSS. of the marquess of Bath, also a catalogue of his library (233(a)).


== Notes ==


== References ==
Bramston, John (1845). Griffin, Richard (ed.). The autobiography of Sir John Bramston: K.B., of Skreens, in the hundred of Chelmsford; now first printed from the original ms. in the possession of his lineal descendant Thomas William Bramston, Esq. Camden society. Publications.
Attribution:

This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Yorke, Philip Chesney (1911). "Coventry, Sir William". In Chisholm, Hugh (ed.). Encyclopædia Britannica. Vol. 7 (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp. 341–342.

Leicester power stations are a series of electricity generating stations that have provided electric power to the City of Leicester and the wider area from 1894. The first station, located within Aylestone gas works, supplied electricity for street lighting. The city's new electric tram system was supplied from 1904 by a station at Lero which operated until 1930. A large coal-fired power station was constructed at Freemans Meadow in 1922 and was operational until 1976. Finally a gas turbine power plant was commissioned in 1976.


== Background ==
Leicester was one of first nine municipalities to obtain legal powers to provide street lighting in the town. The authority to do this was provided for under the Leicester Corporation Act 1879 (42 & 43 Vict. c. cc). However, little progress was made with the new technology. The Corporation of Leicester obtained, from the Board of Trade, a provisional electric lighting order in 1890 permitting it to generate electricity and supply electric lighting for the town. The Leicester Electric Lighting Order 1890 was confirmed by Parliament by the Electric Lighting Order Confirmation (No. 7) Act 1890 (53 & 54 Vict. c. cxcii).


== Aylestone Road power station ==
The first power station in Leicester was built in 1894 within the gas works site on Aylestone Road (52°37′00.1″N 1°08′32.0″W). It first provided electricity on 19 December 1894. In 1897 the plant had a generating capacity of 675 kW and the maximum load was 515 kW. A total of 262.179 MWh of electricity was sold to 331 customers which powered 26,512 lamps, this provided an income to the corporation of £6,056-12-9.
By 1923 the station comprised three 1 MW reciprocating engines and a 5 MW turbo-alternator. These machines were powered by total of up to 181,000 pounds per hour (22.8 kg/s) of steam from coal-fired boilers. The machines generated alternating current (AC) supplied at 240 & 415 V and 100 & 200 V. The electricity works were decommissioned in 1928 after the new power station at Freemans Meadow had been built.


== Midland Railway Station ==
In 1894 the Midland Railway Company installed a gas-fired power station in Leicester. This used two Dowson gas producers working on anthracite, the gas produced operated six single cylinder Crossley engines with porcelain tube ignition. Three machines drove 60-lamp Brush arc lighting generators and the other three drove 110 Volt direct current dynamos for incandescent lights. The total output of the station was 274 MWh per year. The Midland railway station and the goods yards were lit by 141 arc lights and 288 incandescent lamps. The system was reported to have run for many years.


== Lero power station ==
Leicester's tram system was first built in 1874 using horse drawn cars. The Corporation of Leicester took over the system in 1901 and converted it to electric power in 1904. To meet this demand a new generating station was constructed on Painter Street (52°38′42.0″N 1°07′47.2″W) the station buildings, comprising a boiler house and an engine room, were known as the Lero building. It was located next to the Grand Union Canal to facilitate the supply of coal by barge and for the availability of cooling water. The power station was officially opened on 18 May 1904. The boiler house was 108 ft long and 77 ft wide (32.9 m by 23.5 m). In 1904 there were four Yates and Thom Lancashire type boilers, these were 33 ft long and 8 ft 5 inches diameter (10 m by 2.5 m). The tapered octagonal brick chimney was 186 ft high (56.7 m).
The engine room adjoining the boiler house was 118 ft long, 60 ft wide and 40 ft high (36 m by 18.2 m, by 12.2 m). There were three 500 kW steam generating sets. The engines were Yates and Thom vertical cross-compound Corliss condensing type. The principal specifications of the engines were:

160 pounds per square inch (11.0 bar) steam working pressure
cylinders: bore high pressure 22 inches (559 cm), low pressure 44 inches (1118 cm), stroke 3 ft (914 cm).
flywheel: 16 feet (4.88 m) diameter, 95 rpm, 25 tons
Dick-Kerr 500 kW Compound Wound generator 500–550 V DC.
There was a separate battery room which supplied additional current when the demand on the system was high.
In 1906 additional plant was added raising the capacity to 3 × 500 kW and 1 × 1,000 kW generators. There was sufficient generating capacity to allow up to 20 percent of the electricity produced to be sold to industry throughout Leicester. Electricity was delivered to consumer's premises by overhead wires and the return current through the tram track completed the circuit. In 1910 the engine room was extended by 54 ft (11 m) and a Willans & Robinson turbine and a Siemens 1,000 kW DC generator were commissioned. To meet the demand for alternating current (AC), a 750 kW alternator driven by a direct current (DC) motor was also installed.
The Lero and the Aylestone generating sites were electrically coupled in 1914, and were managed by the Tramways and Electricity Committee of the corporation. As Leicester expanded so did the demand for electricity.
By 1923 the plant at the Lero station had been increased to 2 × 3 MW turbo-alternators generating AC; 3 × 0.5 MW and 1 × 1 MW reciprocating engines plus 1 × 0.75 MW steam turbine all generating direct current (DC). The machines at Lero were supplied with up to 164,000 pounds per hour (20.7 kg/s) of steam from the coal-fired boilers.
The Lero station was closed on 30 June 1930, when electricity generation was centralised at Freemans Meadow power station. The buildings were used from 1946 as an extension for the Leicester College of Technology; they were eventually demolished in 2010.


== Freemans Meadow power station ==
Following the First World War, and in anticipation of a post-war increase in demand for electricity, the Corporation of Leicester built a central power station at Freemans Meadow (52°37′10.6″N 1°08′35.7″W). This is now the site of Leicester City Football Club's King Power Stadium. The station opened in December 1922 and was also known as Raw Dykes Road power station. The tram system was fed from a 3-phase electricity supply via rotary converters. These converters were located at Sanvey Gate and Newarke St. The new station initially had a 10 MW turbo-alternator and a 500 kW house service set supplied with up to 196,000 pounds per hour (24.7 kg/s) of steam from eight 45,000 lb/h coal-fired boilers.


=== Three power stations, 1923 ===
The three operational power stations – Aylestone, Lero and Freemans Meadow – supplying electricity to Leicester simultaneously in 1923 had a total generating capacity of 27.25 MW. The total output of the stations in 1921-23 was:

At this time the maximum load on the system was 19.08 MW, and there was a connected load of 29,148 kW. The electric current sold was put to the following uses:

The total revenue to the corporation from sales of electricity in 1923 was £292,437, making a surplus of revenue over expenditure of £121,113.


=== Freemans Meadow LP station ===
New plant was installed at Freemans Meadow over the period 1928–39, this was known as the low pressure (LP) station. It comprised the following:
Boilers:

3 × International Combustion Company, pulverised coal fired, each 120,000 lb/hr (15.1 kg/s) of steam at 350 psi and 750 °F (24.1 bar and 399 °C).
3 × International Combustion Company, pulverised coal fired, each 175,000 lb/hr (22.0 kg/s) of steam at 360 psi and 800 °F (24.8 bar and 427 °C).
Turbo-alternators:

1 × 18.75 MW Oerlikon, 6.6 kV
1 × 25 MW English Electric, 6.6 kV
1 × 30 MW Parsons, 33 kV
1 × 1.5 MW English Electric house set
All machines ran at 3,000 rpm, generating 3-phase current at 50 Hz.
In the 1920s the British equipment manufacturers operated 'price maintenance rings' to keep prices high. Leicester Corporation obtained the Oerlikon machine from the Swiss manufacturers at a considerable saving. This was in the face of opposition from trade unions and business interests to buy British equipment.
Cooling water for the condensers was abstracted from the River Soar. Supplementary cooling was by six Mitchell cooling towers with an aggregate capacity of 4.2 million gallons per hour (5.3 m3/s).
Following the construction of the national grid in 1928–33, a 132 kV substation was built to the north of Freemans Meadow power station (52°37′21.0″N 1°08′27.7″W).
During the Second World War the cooling towers were painted with camouflage.
The key operating parameters of the LP station in 1954–58 were:


=== Nationalisation ===
Upon nationalisation of the British electricity supply industry in 1948 the ownership of Leicester power station was vested in the British Electricity Authority, and subsequently the Central Electricity Authority and the Central Electricity Generating Board (CEGB). The electricity distribution and sales functions were vested in the East Midlands Electricity Board.


=== Freemans Meadow HP station ===
Following the Second World War high pressure (HP) plant was installed in Freemans Meadow in 1949–50 by the British Electricity Authority. This comprised:
Boilers:

4 × International Combustion Company, pulverised coal fired, each 175,000 lb/hr (22.0 kg/s) of steam at 660 psi and 810 °F (45.5 bar and 432 °C).
Turbo-alternators:

2 × 31.5 MW Richardson-Westgarth-English Electric 13.2 kV. The first set was commissioned in August 1950.
Cooling water for the condensers was abstracted from the River Soar. Supplementary cooling was by two Concrete Piling cooling towers each with a capacity of 1.35 million gallons per hour (1.71 m3/s).
The key operating parameters of the HP station in 1954–8 were:

The total electricity output (HP and LP) and operating parameters of Freemans Meadow power station from 1961–71 was as follows:

In 1962-64 there were concerns about dust emissions from the station. This was investigated by the Air Pollution and Smoke Abatement division of the Ministry of Housing and Local Government.
Two former workers at Freemans Meadow power station (George Brown and Leonard Richardson) have given oral history accounts of their time there.
The coal-fired station at Freemans Meadow was closed on 25 October 1976. It was subsequently demolished.


== Gas turbine station ==
In 1972 the CEGB planned to build 12 gas turbine power stations totalling 2,550 MW. These would be used to provide main power generation rather than for peak-shaving. The first station was commissioned at Freemans Meadow Leicester in December 1976, these used industrial type gas turbines rather aero derivative types. Leicester had two 51 MW GEC Gas Turbine EM 610 fuel oil fired industrial gas turbines. The station had two steel chimneys. The operating parameters of the gas turbine station were as follows.

The load factor data demonstrates that the power station was not used significantly. The high output in 1984/5 was associated with the 1984/5 Miners' Strike, and the shortage of coal for coal-fired power stations.
There was a proposal to develop a district heating scheme for Leicester in 1986, using waste heat from the gas-turbines at Freemans Meadow power station. However, the development was not taken forward.
The power station was still operated by the CEGB in 1989 but was decommissioned in 1993 and demolished.
The 132 kV electricity sub-station north of the site is still operational (2020).


== References ==

Gary Michael Anderson (born October 30, 1947) is an American musician.
He attended Berklee School of Music as a Down Beat Hall of Fame Scholarship recipient, and went on to graduate Summa Cum Laude. He served there as a full-time professor and a member of the Berklee Saxophone Quartet, received the institution's Outstanding Achievement Award, and has since been named one of Berklee's Fifty Outstanding Alumnus.
For five years, beginning in 1973, Anderson toured with Woody Herman's Thundering Herd as music director, playing saxophone and arranging. Anderson is credited on seven albums.
After leaving the Herman's band in 1978, Anderson settled in NYC where he composed, arranged, and orchestrated for television, films, and stage. Gary received numerous Daytime Emmy nominations for work with gameshows (Price Is Right, Matchgame, Family Feud, etc.) daytime dramas (One Life To Live, Guiding Light, All My Children, etc.) and animation (Mighty Mouse, Malcolm & Melvin, Hulk Hogan's Rock & Roll Wrestling, etc.). He received a Grammy award in music production for the 30th Anniversary of the Sesame Street soundtrack, "Elmopalooza" and a special Emmy in music production for The 1988 Goodwill Games. Anderson worked as an orchestrator on over 50 movies with composer Charles Gross as well as Broadway stage work with Marvin Hamlisch, Charles Strouse, Bob Fosse and mentor, Ralph Burns.
Recently re-located to Las Vegas, Nevada, Anderson continues his multi-faceted work and participates in summer jazz clinics around the country.


== References ==


== External links ==
Gary M. Anderson at IMDb

Tony Roques (born 7 September 1978 in Bromley) is a former rugby union player who played at flanker for the Cornish All Blacks, Saracens and the England national rugby sevens team.
Head of Rugby for a year at The Leys School in Cambridge. He then became assistant coach for the England Sevens team until 2018. From 2018 he has been the coach for the USA Rugby Sevens team.
2021 – Coach for the Great Britain Rugby 7s team at the Tokyo Olympics


== References ==


== External links ==
England profile
Exeter Chiefs Profile

Itsukushima Shrine (厳島神社, Itsukushima Jinja) is a Shinto shrine in Kushiro, Hokkaidō, Japan. It was founded at the beginning of the nineteenth century. A statue of Yakushi or Kannon by Enkū has been designated a Prefectural Cultural Property.


== See also ==
Itsukushima Jinja
Enkū
List of Shinto shrines in Hokkaidō


== References ==


== External links ==
(in Japanese) Itsukushima Jinja homepage

The Martyrs of Campo di Marte (Italian: Martiri del Campo di Marte) were five men executed in the Campo di Marte borough of Florence by the forces of the Fascist Italian Social Republic (RSI) for refusing to be drafted into the military, and for suspicion of Partisan activity.


== Context ==
After a Partisan attack on the town of Vicchio during which several Fascists were killed on 6 March 1944, the forces of RSI general Enrico Adami Rossi combed the town for Partisan collaborators, discovering in the process five young men who had dodged the military draft imposed by the RSI. They were swiftly condemned to death by the extraordinary military tribunal established the previous month by Rossi, and executed by firing squad ten days later on 22 March.
Several days later on 30 March, the Italian Fascist philosopher Giovanni Gentile received a death threat letter which read:

Tu come esponente del neofascismo sei responsabile dell'assassinio dei cinque giovani al mattino del 22 marzo 1944.As an exponent of neo-fascism, you are responsible for the murder of the five young men on the morning of 22 March 1944.
Gentile was assassinated by the communist Gruppi di Azione Patriottica shortly afterwards on 15 April.


== List of victims ==
The five men are:

Antonio Raddi
Guido Targetti
Leandro Corona
Ottorino Quiti
Adriano Santoni
All were around twenty years old. The five victims were posthumously awarded the Gold Medal for Civil Valor by president Giorgio Napolitano in April 2008. Since Ottorino Quiti had no living next of kin, his medal was accepted by the mayor of Vicchio, Elettra Lorini.


== References ==

Country Songs, Old and New is the debut studio album by progressive bluegrass band Country Gentlemen. It was recorded and released in 1960 and later reissued in 1991.


== Track listing ==


== Personnel ==
Charlie Waller - guitar, vocals
John Duffey - mandolin, vocals
Eddie Adcock - banjo, vocals
Jim Cox - bass, vocals


== References ==


== External links ==
[1]

"Back to Tennessee" is a country rock song by American singer-songwriter and actor Billy Ray Cyrus. It released as the second single from Cyrus' eleventh studio album of the same name on February 2, 2009 by Lyric Street Records. Cyrus drafted the song after learning that Hannah Montana: The Movie, a film he would star in, would be set in Tennessee. The song, developed with the aid of co-songwriters Tamara Dunn and Matthew Wilder, includes country rock elements while describing Cyrus' longing to return to the South, where he grew up, after spending several years in Los Angeles. "Back to Tennessee" was featured in both Hannah Montana: The Movie and its soundtrack.
"Back to Tennessee" was well received by critics, though some felt it took the album's message too literally. It was a moderate commercial achievement for Cyrus and charted within the top fifty of the Billboard magazine chart Hot Country Songs. 
The song's music video was directed by Declan Whitebloom and features scenes of Cyrus at a beach inter cut with clips of Hannah Montana: The Movie. The song was performed in several venues.


== Development ==
Cyrus moved to Los Angeles to star on the Disney Channel television series Hannah Montana in 2006. Cyrus's character, Robby Ray Stewart, is a former country singer and the father of Miley Stewart, a popstar played by Miley Cyrus, Cyrus' real life daughter. The television series became a worldwide hit and the basis for Hannah Montana: The Movie, a feature film released in 2009.
Cyrus first read the script for Hannah Montana: The Movie while in Malibu in early 2008. The film's plot features the Stewarts leaving Hollywood for a summer and returning to Tennessee, their home state, to reconnect with their southern roots. Having grown up in Kentucky, Cyrus was excited to learn the film would be set in the country and fought for it to be filmed on location. "They were gonna film it in a different state [but] I just knew that Tennessee had all the facilities, the man power, and the ability to make this film great," said Cyrus. In addition, Cyrus believed that "in real life, Miley and [he] needed to come back home", saying, "It was important for us to come back to where we are from and remember who we are." Once filming in Tennessee was settled, Cyrus was "overcome with a very positive emotion of coming back home" and wrote "Back to Tennessee" with the aid of songwriters Tamara Dunn and Matthew Wilder.

Cyrus recorded "Back to Tennessee" for the film Hannah Montana: The Movie, in which his character performs the song at a fundraiser to save the meadows near his hometown from development. Cyrus says the song is "part of the cornerstone" of the film because it reflects the film's theme of escaping the fast-paced, glitzy world of Hollywood in search of a simpler country lifestyle. Cyrus commented,

"It's about remembering, you know, where you come from. It's always important to be aware of where you're at and always be looking to where you wanna go, but most importantly don't forget where you come from. That's 'Back to Tennessee' is all about [...] With me, I always try to keep it real with the music, you know. Line by line you listen to the song and you know that I'm walking the walk and talking the talk. It's what this song's all about. It definitely comes from the heart."


== Composition ==

"Back to Tennessee" is one of the more rock music influenced tracks on Back to Tennessee. It is set in common time with a country rock tempo of 120 beats per minute. The song is written in the key of C major. The song has the following chord progression, C—C7—C.
Cyrus said of the lyrics, "If you download "Back to Tennessee" and listen to the whole song, you'll hear exactly how I felt after four years of Hannah Montana, and living in Los Angeles and giving up my previous life and existence and who I am and where I come from. You'll hear a guy who's immersed in music, and my love and desire and need to go back home." Jon Caramanica of The New York Times interpreted the song as an apology "both to [Cyrus's] teenage self and, by extension, to the daughter under his wing." Both Caramanica and Alison Stewart of The Washington Post took interest in the lines, "Great big town/So full of users". Caramanica said the line recognized that "fame is illusory" and "talk[ed] about some of his daughter’s famous friends", while Stewart interpreted the line as a description of Hollywood life in general.


== Critical reception ==
The song received generally positive reviews from critics. Shelly Fabian of About.com said, "There's a special quality to this single that might be able to help people get past 'that one song' from Billy Ray Cyrus's past and realize there's so much more to the man than something from two decades ago." While reviewing the Hannah Montana: The Movie soundtrack, Heather Phares of Allmusic said the song "fits in smoothly with an acoustic version of Rascal Flatts' witty 'Backwards'". Jon Caramanica of The New York Times said, "His hard-won insight is the next best thing to a good swaddle." Allison Stewart of The Washington Post described "Back to Tennessee" as a "fusillade of strident twang rock track". She added that the song was "eager" and that it explained "Country as Country Can Be". Yahoo! Music thought the song was followed Back to Tennessee's message "too literally". The song was included on the short list for Best Original Song at the 82nd Academy Awards, but failed to achieve a nomination.


== Chart performance ==
In the United States, "Back to Tennessee" failed to reach the Billboard Hot 100, the country's main singles chart, but charted on the country-genre chart. In the week ending March 7, 2009, "Back to Tennessee" debuted at number fifty-nine on Billboard's Hot Country Songs. "The Climb", by Cyrus' daughter, Miley Cyrus, debuted at number forty-eight the same week, the first time a father and daughter had separate charting songs on the chart since Johnny Cash and Rosanne Cash charted in 1990 with "Silver Stallion" and "One Step over the Line", respectively. On the week ending April 25, 2009, the song reached its peak at number forty-seven on the chart.


== Music video ==
The music video for "Back to Tennessee" was directed by Declan Whitebloom and premiered on March 12, 2009 on CMT. It was partially shot in Malibu, California, where Cyrus wrote the song. Like the song, the video represents Cyrus' desire to return home. Cyrus explained,

"When I see the video for 'Back to Tennessee,' there's a lot of emotion there. It's a combination between the Hannah Montana movie and going back to the actual spot where I wrote the song. I wrote the song in Malibu, and we went back to Malibu to film the video. I had never done a video exactly where I wrote the song. Then we take my little blue truck from the movie and travel back across the country. Again, it becomes a very articulate picture of what that song's about. It's everything a video is supposed to be."

Cyrus's "little blue truck" is the blue 1990 Ford Ranger that he drove in the film, which was transported to California to be used in the video. The video prominently features clips of Hannah Montana: The Movie, particularly the scene in which Cyrus performs "Back to Tennessee". Cyrus's backup band in that performance includes part of Taylor Swift's band, Bucky Covington, and Marcel. About the video as a whole, Cyrus said, "I hope when people, you know, watch the video. I hope that they can feel what this song is about. I hope they can relate to that in their life and their world."
The video commences with the Hannah Montana: The Movie performance, in which Cyrus and his backup band perform atop a stage in a crowded barn. The video then switches to its principal setting, which features Cyrus on a beach at sunset. Cyrus is seen in a black T-shirt tossing rocks at the ocean and looking at a picture of a blond woman. The woman is portrayed by Melora Hardin, who plays Lorelai, Robby Ray's love interest in Hannah Montana: The Movie. As the video progresses, Cyrus is also seen with the blue Ford Ranger, either driving it or leaning against it while playing an acoustic guitar. The video also includes clips of Lorelai, Robby Ray, Miley Stewart, and Miley Stewart's love interest, Travis Body. The video ends with Cyrus, looking down, walking next to the seashore.


== Live performances ==
Cyrus performed "Back to Tennessee" as part of the AOL Sessions on April 13, 2009. He also performed the song and several others in a London Apple Store on April 24, 2009. The set, along with some songs by Miley, were recorded and sold exclusively by the United Kingdom iTunes Store as an extended play titled iTunes Live from London. On August 1, 2009, Cyrus performed the song at the 2009 Hannity Freedom Concert, a concert supporting the Freedom Alliance Scholarship Fund.


== References ==


== External links ==
The official website of Billy Ray Cyrus
The official website of Hannah Montana: The Movie
"Back to Tennessee" music video on CMT

Queen City FC was an American soccer team based in Buffalo, New York, United States. Founded in 2006, the team played in the National Premier Soccer League (NPSL), a national amateur league at the fourth tier of the American Soccer Pyramid, until 2008, when the franchise was sold to Mike Share in October 2008 and the team changed names to Buffalo City FC.
The team played its home games All-High Stadium. The team's colors were sky blue and black.
The Front Office consisted of: Executive Director and General Manager, Christopher Keem; Controller, Dennis Behrens; Director of Community Outreach, Micheal Strangio; Technical Director, Brendan Murphy; Director of Field Hockey (offshoot of Queen City FC), Jessica Murphy; Director of Scouting, Kevin Brenner; Transportation Coordinator, Jake Szopinski; Director of Media Relations, Ryan Knapp; Strength and Conditioning, Chris Nentarz.
Supporters Group was led by Jamey Vann, and the name was "The O'Block"
Queen City FC is also the name of an unrelated youth soccer club based in South Burlington, founded in 2011 by Shane Bufano.


== History ==

Queen City FC was started by former professional and college players looking for a side to support in the Greater Buffalo area, with the only high level football played in the area being in Rochester with the Rochester Raging Rhinos, and the MLS expansion team Toronto FC in Toronto.
In 2007, Queen City FC won the northeast division and competed for the National NPSL Finals only to lose by one goal.  Their debut season can be noted as one of the most successful debut seasons in Buffalo sports history. This success can largely be attributed to the successful recruitment by Director of Scouting Kevin Brenner. Akeem Rodney is one of many players brought in by Brenner.
After a successful two seasons, their franchise rights were transferred to Buffalo City FC. Buffalo City FC would later become FC Buffalo in 2009.


== Players ==


=== Player Roster (2006–2008) ===

Note: Flags indicate national team as defined under FIFA eligibility rules; some limited exceptions apply. Players may hold more than one non-FIFA nationality.


== Year-by-year ==


== Honors ==
NPSL Northeast Division Champions (2007)
NPSL National Finalist (2007)


== Head coaches ==
 Michael Middleton (2007)
 Thomas Cordaro (2007–2008)


== Stadia ==
All-High Stadium; Buffalo, New York (2007–2008)


== Supporters ==
The club's supporters group were known as "The O-Block".


== References ==


== External links ==
National Premier Soccer League
Queen City FC MySpace
Queen City Football Club website

Thomas Percival (1740–1804) was an English physician, health reformer, ethicist, and author
Thomas Percival may also refer to:

Thomas Percival (actor), English stage actor of the seventeenth century
Thomas Percival (antiquarian) (1719–1762), English antiquary

Sberbank Europe Group (Sberbank Europe AG) was a banking group headquartered in Vienna, Austria, and owned by Sberbank, a Russian state-controlled company. Sberbank Europe provided financial services to over 780,000 customers in eight countries in Central and Eastern Europe. 


== History ==
Sberbank Europe AG was established in 2012 after Sberbank acquired Volksbank International AG (VBI) and rebranded it Sberbank Europe. The deal involved all VBI assets – banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Serbia, Slovenia, Ukraine and Slovakia, apart from Volksbank Romania. Société Générale and J.P.Morgan acted as financial advisors to Sberbank. Troika Dialog also advised on the transaction. The deal price was €505 million, which is 1.0x VBI book value (excluding Romania). Organizational transformation and group restructuring were exercised during that period. It was decided that the regional headquarters of Sberbank Europe Group would be in Vienna, Austria. In 2013, Sberbank Europe received a full banking license in Austria. Volksbank subsidiaries were fully rebranded as Sberbank by 2014.
Sberbank Europe obtained its first Fitch Ratings investment grade, BBB−, in 2013. Fitch affirmed its rating as BB+ with positive outlook in 2017. In 2019, Fitch upgraded the Long-Term Issuer Default Rating (IDR) to BBB− and confirmed it with a Stable Outlook in 2020.
In 2014 Sberbank Europe received a syndicated loan of €350m and launched Sberbank Direct in Germany, an online direct bank with basic retail products. Sberbank Direct gained €1.7 bn in deposits by 2015. In 2018, Sberbank Direct launched an online instant loan offer in Germany.
In 2015 Sberbank Europe sold 99.5% stake of its Slovak subsidiary, Sberbank Slovensko, to Penta Investments for a confidential price. Sberbank Europe AG completed the Comprehensive Assessment consisting of the Asset Quality Review (AQR) and the Stress Test conducted by the European Central Bank. In 2016, Sberbank finalized the sale of the Slovak subsidiary and converted €370m of subordinated loans (Tier II capital) into Common Equity Tier I capital, strengthening its capital structure. In December 2017, Sberbank Europe completed the sale of its stake of 99.9230% in PJSC «VS Bank» (Ukraine) to TAS Group.
2019 became Sberbank Europe's most successful financial year. The bank generated a profit after tax of EUR 40.6 million.
In 2018, Sberbank won in categories “Best Bank in CEE” by The Banker magazine, “Most Innovative Digital Bank in CEE” by Global Finance magazine and "Strongest Banking Brand in the World" by Brand Finance magazine. In 2020, Sberbank won the World’s Best Digital Bank Awards by Global Finance magazine. In 2021, the bank confirmed its title of the Strongest Banking Brand in the World according to Brand Finance.


=== Insolvency ===
In late February 2022, during the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, bank runs and sanctions against the bank caused CNN to state the bank "...was failing, or likely to fail, because of "significant deposit outflows" triggered by the Ukraine crisis." The European Central Bank stated the outflows "led to a deterioration of its liquidity position. And there are no available measures with a realistic chance of restoring this position." On 1 March 2022, the Financial Market Authority of Austria (FMA) prohibited further operations.
On 2 March 2022, it was announced that Sberbank Europe Group is insolvent. On the same day the Slovenian subsidiary was sold to NLB Group, while the Croatian subsidiary was sold to Hrvatska poštanska banka.
In Bosnia and Herzegovina, after the takeover from ASA banka and Nova Banka was allowed in March 2022 for two Bosnian Sberbank subsidiaries (Sberbank a.d. Banja Luka and Sberbank BH d.d. Sarajevo) continued to operate according to the rules of entity based banking regulators in BiH (FBA and ABRS). The Sarajevo based company was bought by ASA banka and operated under the name ASA banka Naša i snažna d.d. Sarajevo until the full integration with the parent ASA Banka, and the Banja Luka branch continued its operations (under Nova banka supervision) with the new presented name ATOS BANK a.d. Banja Luka.


== Ownership ==
Sberbank Europe Group is fully owned by Sberbank, a Russian company. The Ministry of Finance of Russia is the principal shareholder of Sberbank, owning 50% of the bank’s authorized capital plus one voting share, with the remaining 50% held by domestic and international investors.


== Management Board ==
The Management Board of Sberbank Europe AG consists currently of the following management board members:

Sonja Sarközi, CEO
Arndt Röchling, CFO
Alexander Witte, CRO
Aleksei Mikhailov, CTO
Sberbank Europe AG had also previously the following members of the Management Board:

Stefan Zapotocky (Chief Corporate and Investment Banking Officer)
Alexey Bogatov (CRO/CIO)
Gerhard Randa, CEO
Christian Kubitschek, CFO
Axel Hummel, CEO
Mark Arnold, CEO
Igor Strehl (Chief Corporate and Investment Banking Officer)  
András Hámori, Retail
Markus Krause, CRO
Valentin Mihov (Strategie)
David O'Mahony (CIO / COO)  


== Operations ==
The bank has 187 branches in Central and Eastern Europe with over 3,800 employees (as of YE 2020).
Sberbank Europe Group AG operations can be divided into three core businesses: Retail business, Large corporate & investment banking and Small and medium-sized enterprise business.
Retail business involves the provision of mortgages and consumer loans, savings and pension products and digital banking programs. Large corporate & investment banking includes corporate, real estate and acquisition financing as well as trade finance and treasury products. Small and medium-sized enterprise business offers liquidity financing (Working Capital/Overdraft), investment financing (equipment/business facilities), Treasury finance products and transaction business support.


=== Subsidiaries in Europe ===
Sberbank Europe Group AG was present in 8 markets in Central and Eastern Europe:

Austria: Sberbank Europe AG
Bosnia and Herzegovina (Sarajevo and Banja Luka): Sberbank BH d.d. Sarajevo, Sberbank a.d. Banja Luka
Croatia: Sberbank d.d.
Czech Republic: Sberbank CZ, a.s.
Germany: Branch Sberbank Direct
Hungary: Sberbank Magyarország Zrt
Serbia: Sberbank Srbija a.d. Beograd
Slovenia: Sberbank banka d.d.


== See also ==
List of banks in Austria


== References ==


== External links ==

Official website

The NFCA Golden Shoe Award is an award given by New Balance to the best college softball base stealer from an NFCA member institution. A committee of elected head coaches selects the winner of the award.


== Winners ==


== References ==

Shattered is a 2006 novel by Eric Walters. It has a foreword from Lieutenant-General Roméo Dallaire, who was the Force Commander for the United Nations Mission to Rwanda.


== Plot ==
15-year-old Ian is a wealthy spoiled teenager, who in order to pass his civics class, must perform community service. He decides to go to "The Club" after being intrigued merely by its name, and little to his knowledge turns out to be a soup kitchen. Over time, he becomes accustomed to the way the homeless are treated and how life on the streets really is. At this soup kitchen, he meets war veteran Sarge, who has PTSD following his role as a UN peacekeeper in the Rwandan genocide.


== Characters ==
Ian Blackburn (The main character)
Sarge (Jack/Jacques)
Berta
Mr. MacDonald (Mac)
Mrs. Watkins (Ian's Teacher)


== Awards ==
Shattered won the Ontario Library Association's White Pine Award in 2007.
In 2007,  Shattered received the Violet Downey Book Award.


== References ==

A bridge plate, or bridgeplate, is a mechanical, movable form of wheelchair ramp that is used on some low-floor light rail vehicles (LRVs) to provide for wheelchair access. The bridge plate extends from the vehicle to the platform, which must be raised to close to the level of the floor of the vehicle so that the wheelchair need not travel over an excessively steep ramp (in the United States, the Americans with Disabilities Act specifies that the slope must be no more than 1 inch of rise for every 12 inches of length).  Some low-floor buses also use bridge plates (in this case, extending to the curb) to provide for wheelchair access, but many low-floor buses instead use a ramp that normally serves as part of the floor but can be flipped out through the door (using a hinge at the door) onto the curb or street; in this case the ramp is long enough that it can serve as a true wheelchair ramp rather than a bridge without being excessively steep.
Bridge plates can be manually deployed (by the vehicle operator or other crew person) or powered, retractable ramps.  The first passenger rail cars in North America to be equipped with retractable bridge plates were TriMet's (Portland, Oregon) Siemens SD660 LRVs, the first of which were completed in 1996. Earlier, in 1987, the newly opened SacRT light rail system used non-powered, station-platform-mounted bridge plates to bridge the gap between a high-platform section at each station and the floor of an LRV.


== Manually operated bridge plates ==

On some railway stations in France and the United Kingdom, it may not be possible provide permanent level access from the platform to the train if different types of trains pass through or serve the station. To overcome this issue, a station may have one or more staff-operated boarding ramp on the platforms, to be deployed when a wheelchair user boards the train.


== Bridge plates across tracks ==

Much larger bridge plates, spanning across tracks, are used for boarding when the track next to the platform is closed, especially for maintenance. These plates can be dangerous, as the section of track must be taken out of service and trains rerouted to avoid colliding with the plates.


== See also ==
Platform gap filler
Wheelchair lift
Wheelchair ramp


== References ==

Muhammad Jailani Abu Talib (born 1985, Singapore) is a poet and writer.


== Background ==
Muhammad Jailani Abu Talib read Malay language and literature in University of Malaya (UM).
In UM, he was President of the Malay Language Society in the university (PBMUM). Past presidents include Dr. Nuwairi Haji Khaza'ai, Dato' Seri Anwar Ibrahim  and Datuk Ahmad Shaberry Cheek. He served as president of the society for two consecutive years from 2009 to 2011.


== Publications ==
His poems have been published in the poetry anthologies "Reflecting On The Merlion: An Anthology of Poems" and "From The Window of This Epoch". In 2009, he won the Golden Point Award (2nd) for short stories.


== Works ==
"Reflecting On The Merlion : An Anthology of Poems", by Edwin Thumboo and Yeow Kai Chai (2009, Singapore : firstfruits publications), ISBN 978-981-08-4300-7
"Antologi Puisi Malaysia dan Singapura : Dari Jendela Zaman Ini", by ITNM and NAC (2009, Kuala Lumpur : Institut Terjemahan Negara Malaysia), ISBN 978-983-068-480-2
"Bahasa Sumber Intelektual Peribumi", by Muhammad Jailani Abu Talib & Mohamed Pitchay Gani Bin Mohamed Abdul Aziz (2009, Singapore : Asas 50 Press), ISBN 978-981-08-3689-4
"Evolution of Malay Language : 2000 Years", by Muhammad Jailani Abu Talib (Ed.) (2009, Singapore : Asas 50 Press & Malay Heritage Centre), ISBN 978-981-08-3561-3
"RESAN : Antologi Cerpen & Sajak", by Muhammad Jailani Abu Talib and Mohamed Pitchay Gani Bin Mohamed Abdul Aziz (2009, Singapore : Asas 50 Press), ISBN 978-981-05-9077-2
"Rumpun Kita", by Shamsudin Othman, Rahimidin Zahari, Mohamad Saleeh Rahamad, dan S.M. Zakir (2009, Kuala Lumpur : Persatuan Penulis Nasional Malaysia), ISBN 978-967-5485-00-8
"Jejak Para Kaul 1", by Leonowens SP (2010, Jakarta : Bisnis 2030), ISBN 978-602-8543-47-7
"Jejak Para Kaul II", by Leonowens SP (2010, Jakarta : Bisnis 2030), ISBN 978-602-8543-48-4
"Susur Pendekar : Koleksi Puisi", by Muhammad Jailani Abu Talib (2010, Singapore : Reka Media), ISBN 978-981-08-5150-7
"Kampung Warisan Kuala Lumpur : Antologi Puisi 56 Penyair", by Pyanhabib + Dinsman (2010, Kuala Lumpur : Seniman Paksi Rakyat), ISBN 978-967-5695-01-8


== Awards ==
2008 - Certificate of Distinction for Menggapai Angkasa by Angkatan Sasterawan 50
2009 - Essay Cheeseman Award by University of Malaya
2009 - Certificate of Distinction for Antara Tumasik dan Singapura by Angkatan Sasterawan 50
2009 - Golden Point Award by National Arts Council (Singapore)
2009 - NAC (Overseas) Bursary Award by National Arts Council (Singapore)
2009 - Youth Activist Icon (Tokoh Belia Aktivis) by National Institute of Education, Nanyang Technological University
2010 - Model Young Writer (Tokoh Penulis Muda) by Mutiara Minda, MPH, Malaysia
2011 - Gold Award (Anugerah Kencana) by Malay Language Society, University of Malaya
2011 - Alumni Award by University of Malaya


== External links ==
SCRIBD.com, Muhammad Jailani Abu Talib Scribd Page


== Bibliography ==
ITNM & NAC, "Through The Window of This Epoch", Institut Terjemahan Negara Malaysia, Malaysia, 2009.
Mohamed Pitchay Gani Bin Mohamed Abdul Aziz & Muhammad Jailani Abu Talib, Bahasa Sumber Intelektual Peribumi, Asas 50 Press, Singapore, 2009.


== References ==

At the 1964 Summer Olympics, 16 wrestling events were contested, for all men. There were eight weight classes in Greco-Roman wrestling and eight classes in freestyle wrestling.


== Medal table ==


== Medal summary ==


=== Greco-Roman ===


=== Freestyle ===


== Participating nations ==
A total of 275 wrestlers from 42 nations competed at the Tokyo Games:


== See also ==
List of World and Olympic Champions in men's freestyle wrestling
List of World and Olympic Champions in Greco-Roman wrestling


== References ==

The Castle Knowe (NS20365081) is a prominent mound located slightly to the west of North Kilruskin Farm on the Kilruskin Toll Road, West Kilbride, North Ayrshire, Scotland. The mound may have served several different functions over the ages.


== History ==
The Castle Knowe has been referred to as a fortlet or castle hill and was classed as a motte and bailey in 1974 and records show that a stone rampart was removed in the 1890s for re-use elsewhere. A broad and deep foss or ditch existed that has been obscured as a feature following the Kilruskin Burn's diversion through a covered culvert. The long established road from the Ardrossan area to Fairlie, Largs and beyond runs very close to the Castle Knowe so that a fortified structure would be in a position to control movements along this communications corridor.


=== Etymology ===
The place-name elements 'Knowe' and 'Knol' are derived from the Old English 'Cnoll' meaning a small rounded hill, hillock or mound, sometimes associated with tales of the fairies.
The place-name 'Kilruskin' is said to have been 'Kilronskan' originally, derived from 'The Cell of Saint Ronskan'. A chapel at a place named Kirkstead to the unknown Saint Ronskan or Ruskin is said to have stood at the foot of the hills to the east of Kilruskin. It has also been suggested that Kilruskin may mean 'The Chapel of the Rushes' from the Gaelic 'riasg' in keeping with the very marshy conditions of the low-lying land lying between Kilruskin and Hunterston.


=== Antiquarian visits ===
In 1895 the antiquarian John Smith recorded that the site had been subject to cultivation for many years but was still a prominent feature that measured at the time 37 paces in diameter at the bottom, circa 14 feet on one side and circa 8 feet on the other. Castle Knowe was considered artificial by early visitors and natural by later visiting experts although formal archaeological investigations have not taken place.


=== Moot hill ===
An oak tree was located on its east side that is significant in regard of a suggestion that it was once used as a moot, court or justice hill and by association a gallows hill where a dule tree may have been located and where condemned male prisoners were executed whilst women were drowned in a pit. The Castle Knowe lies within the ancient Barony of Hunterston with its caput at the nearby Hunterston Castle.


== Structural remains ==
In 1816 the landowner, Mr R Hunter, reported that there were the appearances of an arch in the centre of the Castle Knowe that was orientated North to South. The remains of a drystone dyke in 2016 ran across the eastern side of the knowe and ran down to join the maintained dyke at the main road whilst in 1855 a drystone dyke ran across the end of the knowe on the western side. The source of the stone used for these dykes is not recorded. No structural remains are now visible at the site.
Castle knowe is now a sub-circular, grass-covered mound, about 20.0 m (65.6 ft) in diameter across the top, 4.0 m (13.1 ft) high on the North, and about 2.0 m (6.6 ft) on the South. The South side of the knowe shows clear indications of having been cut into, probably by ploughing and the placing of the drystone dyke shown on the 1855 map.


=== Tumulus ===
It has been considered to be a burial mound or tumulus. When the stone ramparts were removed in the 1890s an oblong cavity was uncovered in the centre that extended across the entire top of the mound and was about 6 to 8 ft (1.8 to 2.4 m) in width and depth. The walls were of neatly built drystone construction devoid of cement or mortar and the interior was filled with fallen earth and stones with no indication of what had formed the roof. 


=== Souterrain ===
Souterrains are not commonly known in the Ayrshire context however features such as the description of the oblong cavity and its lack of a stone roof are suggestive of these structures that are mainly known in Cornwall, Ireland and the North-East 'Pict lands' of Scotland.


=== Finds ===
It was reported in 1896 that querns or hand mills had been found in the area indicating dwellings nearby. although despite many years of ploughing at the site the farmer reported a lack of any finds.


== Kilruskin Toll ==
A toll house was once located near the Castle Knowe at the junction of the Kilruskin Road with the West Kilbride to Fairlie road.


== Micro-history ==
The Kilruskin Woods run up towards the old Hunterston Conveyor overbridge.
A water mill existed at North Kilruskin powered by the Kilruskin Burn and a mill pond with sluice arrangement. The mill worked using water power into the 1940s.


== References ==
Notes

Sources


== External links ==
Video and narration - The Castle Knowe, Kilruskin.

The Mexican Border War was a series of military engagements between the United States military and several Mexican factions in the Mexican–American border region of North America during the Mexican Revolution.
From the beginning of the Mexican Revolution in 1910, the United States Army was stationed in force along the border and, on several occasions, fought with Mexican rebels or regular federal troops. The height of the conflict came in 1916 when revolutionary Pancho Villa attacked the American border town of Columbus, New Mexico. In response, the United States Army, under the direction of General John J. Pershing, launched a punitive expedition into northern Mexico, to find and capture Villa. Although Villa was not captured, the US Army found and engaged the Villista rebels, killing Villa's two top lieutenants. The revolutionary himself escaped, and the American army returned to the United States in January 1917.
Conflict at the border continued, however, and the United States launched several smaller operations into Mexican territory until after the American victory in the Battle of Ambos Nogales in August 1918, which led to the establishment of a permanent border wall. Conflict was not limited to battles between Villistas and Americans; Maderistas, Carrancistas, Constitutionalistas and Germans also engaged with American forces in that period. The Bandit War in Texas was part of the Border War.
The German Empire, a major trading partner with Mexico and a rival of the United States and its allies, was involved. In 1914, the United States occupied Veracruz, aiming to cut off supplies of ammunition from the German Empire to Mexico at the start of World War I. In 1917, the British government intercepted a German telegram which offered the Mexican President financial support in recapturing the territories acquired by the United States through the Texas annexation and the Mexican Cession. In exchange, the German Empire wanted Mexico's formal support in anticipation of a hypothetical United States entry into the war in Europe. While the offer was not accepted, a small German military presence could be observed in later battles along the border, such as the Battle of Ambos Nogales.


== Timeline ==


=== 1910 ===
Revolutionary activity breaks out in Mexico.
United States Army deploys to several more border towns to protect American lives and property and to ensure that fighting between rebel and federal forces remains on the Mexican side of the border.
In late 1910, Francisco Madero issues the Plan of San Luis Potosí, a proclamation which called for Mexican citizens to rise up against the federal government of Porfirio Díaz, in San Antonio, Texas.
On 20 November, Madero planned to attack the border town of Ciudad Porfirio Diaz, Coahuila, across the border from Eagle Pass, Texas. Due to the lack of reinforcements, Madero canceled the operation and left to New Orleans, Louisiana, to prepare another plan.


=== 1911 ===
Porfirio Díaz pressured the United States government into issuing orders for Madero's arrest. Madero escapes across the border back into Mexico on 14 February.
Magonistas began campaigning in northern Baja California in February. They captured the Mexican border town of Mexicali on 11 February and then marched to Tijuana where they defeated the federal garrison. The Mexican government retaliated and attacked Tijuana in June, forcing the rebels to cross the border and surrender to the United States Army at San Ysidro, California.
In March, Francisco Madero led 130 troops at the Battle of Casas Grandes in Chihuahua. The rebels lost the battle, but later the federals retreated which left Madero's army in control. Madero then began smuggling arms and ammunition on a large scale from across the border.
On 16 March, rebel saboteurs in Ciudad Juárez bombed the barracks and homes of the Mexican Army garrison. A large nitroglycerin explosion was seen from the American side of the border. Two days later, a large cannon which sat in the town square of El Paso, Texas, disappeared and was presumably taken to Ciudad Juárez.
Maderista rebels fought federal troops loyal to Porfirio Díaz at Agua Prieta, Sonora, in April. United States troops across the border in Douglas, Arizona, were attacked by Mexican forces, and in response the Americans intervened which left the rebels in control of the town.
Madero's rebels under Pancho Villa and Pascual Orozco attacked federal forces at the major Battle of Ciudad Juárez from 7 April to 10 May. The American garrison at El Paso, Texas, exchanged fire with rebels resulting in minor casualties on both sides.
Porfirio Díaz exiled. Francisco Madero becomes President of Mexico and calls for an end to warfare in the country. He offered to pay rebels of different factions but only if they would lay down their arms or join his new federal Army.
Fighting breaks out between rebel factions.


=== 1912 ===
United States Army continues garrisoning American border towns.
El Paso slows guns and ammunition exports into Mexico almost completely due to the increase of undercover Mexican and American Secret Service agents and informants throughout Mexico's border cities.
This was bad for Pascual Orozco and President Madero due to El Paso being one of the largest recruiting centers for volunteers on both sides of the rebellion.
This caused General Orozco to travel further to gain ammunition and weapons. But, in the spring of 1912, General Orozco and his troops had more than 5 million rounds of ammunition.
General Pasqual Orozco rebels against President Madero and begins a campaign in the border state of Chihuahua. Madero responds by sending an army that defeated Orozco's troops in three major battles. Villa rebels against the Madero government soon after.
The United States liked President Madero and was a huge help in preventing the rebellion from General Orozco. This ultimately gave the Mexican government' "probably the most effective Mexican intelligence network on the border during the revolution."
Federal forces of President Francisco Madero establish Fort Tijuana along the international border with California in response to the Magonista campaign.


=== 1913 ===
Nogales, Sonora, was attacked by General Obregón's army of over 2,000 Constitutionalists in 1913. Defending federal forces under General Emilio Kosterlitzky collapsed and surrendered to the United States Army garrison of Nogales, Arizona.
The Battle of Naco is fought. Álvaro Obregón's rebel army defeated the federal Mexican border town garrison of Naco, Sonora. United States troops watched the battle from across the border.
American troops in Naco, Arizona, begin construction of Fort Naco, one of 12 forts built by the United States Army along the border for protection against warring Mexican forces.
General John Pershing and Pancho Villa meet at Fort Bliss, Texas, and would meet again later in 1914 at Ojinaga, Chihuahua.


=== 1914 ===
On 9 April, the Tampico Affair, an incident in Tampico, Tamaulipas, between United States Navy sailors and Mexican troops, occurred. It resulted in the severing of diplomatic relations between Mexico and the United States.
In response to the Tampico Affair, President Woodrow Wilson asked Congress to approve an armed invasion of Mexico.
Congress approves the invasion. The United States Navy's Atlantic fleet under Admiral Frank Fletcher was sent to the port of Veracruz and occupied the city after an amphibious assault and a street battle with Mexican defenders.
The longest battle of the Mexican Revolution was fought at Naco, Sonora, across the border from Fort Naco and Naco, Arizona. Pancho Villa's troops attacked General Obregón's garrison on 17 October. During the 119 following days of siege warfare, Villa was defeated. Also during the battle several United States Army Buffalo Soldiers stationed in Naco, Arizona, were wounded by rebels shooting into their camp. Eight soldiers were wounded but they did not return fire and were later recognized for their good discipline.
Pancho Villa and Emiliano Zapata capture Mexico City but soon after are forced to retreat by Álvaro Obregón's army.


=== 1915 ===
Carrancistas draft the Plan de San Diego, an operation to overthrow the state governments of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and California by starting a race war. The plan was discovered by the Americans after a Carrancista leader was arrested in Texas though some fighting did occur in the form of raids, launched by rebels into Texas territory.
Pancho Villa attacks General Obregón's Constitutionalist garrison at Nogales, Sonora. Villa initiated a siege but over time was defeated due to the lack of artillery and insufficient supplies. During the siege the United States 12th Infantry garrison of Nogales, Arizona, was attacked by Villistas and in turn skirmished for a half hour. One American was killed along with several of Villa's rebels.
Villistas and Constitutionalists fought again at Agua Prieta in November. Later, Villa attributed his defeat to large searchlights used during the battle by the United States Army garrison of Douglas, Arizona. The battle ended in defeat for Villa and led to the more disastrous Battle of Hermosillo on 15 November. At this time, Villa's forces pillaged the city instead of fighting the garrison, resulting in a repulse. Constitutionalist forces were allowed access to American railways for troop movement.


=== 1916 ===
The January 1916 San Isabel massacre occurred. Villistas stopped a train near Santa Isabel, Chihuahua, and killed around 17 American passengers from the ASARCO company of Tucson, Arizona.
Now losing the war, Pancho Villa decided to raid Columbus, New Mexico, for supplies on 9 March 1916. The raid did not go as planned and Villa's 500 cavalrymen were defeated by over 300 United States infantry and cavalrymen, who were stationed in a border fort outside of town. Columbus was heavily damaged by the Villistas who burned several of the town's buildings. Sixty to eighty Villistas were killed along with over a dozen American troops and civilians.
In response to the attack on Columbus, President Wilson ordered General John J. Pershing to proceed into Mexico with over 5,000 soldiers to capture or kill Pancho Villa, thus beginning the Pancho Villa Expedition.
On 5 May, Villa's rebels attacked two more American border towns, Glenn Springs, Texas, and Boquillas, Texas. Over 200 troops under Rodriguez Ramirez and Natividad Álvarez crossed the Texas border with the intention of capturing supplies. At Glenn Springs, a United States Army squad of nine soldiers resisted the Villista attack for several hours but eventually, the raiders set fire to the adobe building the Americans were held up in and forced the 14th Infantry soldiers to retreat. Three of the United States troops were killed and four others were wounded. One young American boy was also killed by the Mexicans. At Boquillas, 12 mi (19 km) from Glenn Springs, the Americans there captured Álvarez and discovered he was a lieutenant colonel in Pancho Villa's División del Norte and was a veteran of the Battle of Celaya.
The raiders of Glenn Springs and Boquillas took two captives with them when they withdrew across the border, Jesse Deemer and Monroe Payne, who were later rescued by American Army forces during a small cavalry expedition into Mexico. The expedition of eighty men, two wagons, and a car began on 8 May from Marathon, Texas, and was under the command of Colonel Frederick W. Sibley and Colonel George T. Langhorne. The rebels were held up at El Pino, Chihuahua, and at first Colonel Langhorne negotiated for the release of the two Americans; when this failed, he ordered his troops to embark his personal car and head for El Pino. Upon their arrival, the Villistas fled and Deemer and Payne were freed. During the operation which ended on 21 May, five Mexicans were killed in skirmishes with no American losses.
In May 1916, President Wilson ordered the National Guard to reinforce the United States Army garrisons at the borderline. By August, an estimated 117,000 guardsmen were stationed along the border in Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, and California.
On 12 April, American forces and Carrancistas fought the Battle of Parral in Chihuahua. When United States troops under Major Frank Tompkins attempted to leave the city of Parral, they were attacked by Carrancista riflemen. The Americans returned fire, and over the course of several hours, 45 Mexicans lay dead along with two Americans. The engagement marked the furthest penetration into northern Mexico by American forces, Parral is over 500  miles from the border.
In June, Buffalo Soldiers of the 10th Cavalry suffered a defeat at the Battle of Carrizal. Federal Mexican troops attacked 150 cavalrymen when they attempted to enter the town of Carrizal. The most famous battle of the Border War was fought and ended with the deaths of 45 Mexicans and more than 100 Americans. Forty-four other Mexicans and Americans were wounded.
Raids on American border towns continued during and for years after the Pancho Villa Expedition. On 15 June, raiders killed four American soldiers at San Ygnacio, Texas. On 31 July, another soldier and a United States customs inspector were killed in a second raid. During both engagements, Mexicans were killed or wounded but their casualties are not known.
Future General George S. Patton of the 8th Cavalry conducted America's first assault with armored vehicles at a ranch near San Miguelito. Three Mexicans were killed, including the Villista General Julio Cárdenas. Patton is said to have carved notches into the pistols he carried, representing the troops he killed with them.


=== 1917 ===
Due to the defeat at Carrizal, President Wilson ordered General Pershing to withdraw from Mexico and end the expedition. By January, most of the American expeditionary troops had left Mexican territory and were back at garrison duty along the border.
At this time Germany started sinking merchant ships by U-boat with Europeans and Americans on board. This worried Germany because they thought that the United States would attack and they tried a last-ditch effort.
The Zimmermann Telegram was intercepted by the British in 1917. In the telegram, the German government formally requested that Mexico join World War I on the side of the Central Powers if the United States declared war on Germany. The Germans asked the Mexicans to attack the southwestern United States and promised to return the land to Mexico that was lost to the United States during the Mexican–American War and the Gadsden Purchase.


=== 1918 ===
United States Army Intelligence stationed at Fort Huachuca, Arizona, detected a German military presence in Sonora and ordered troops to begin surveillance operations to prepare for war with Mexico. Mexican railways, train stations, and other related enterprises were inspected as possible routes for a large-scale American invasion.
Revolutionary Yaqui Native Americans established a base in Bear Valley, Arizona, to store weapons intended to be smuggled into Mexico. When the base was discovered by the United States Army, Blondy Ryder of the 10th Cavalry was ordered to evict the rebel Yaquis. On 9 January, Ryder's patrol attacked the Yaquis in a small half-hour engagement. The camp was destroyed, one Yaqui was killed, and nine others were captured. The United States Cavalry suffered no casualties.
In mid-August, Lieutenant Colonel Frederick J. Herman received an anonymous message from a Mexican revolutionary about a possible attack on Nogales, Arizona, by Mexican federal soldiers and a group of German military advisers. On 27 August, a Mexican suspected of gun smuggling crossed the border into Nogales, Sonora, followed by a US Customs agent and two US Army troops. A Mexican soldier watched the incident and fired on the American agent. The shot was a miss but hit one of the soldiers, and the other two Americans returned fire and killed the Mexican soldier. From there, the incident escalated from a small dispute into the Battle of Ambos Nogales. Reinforcements from both sides rushed to the border to fight; soldiers of the 35th Infantry Regiment called for aid, and a squadron of 10th Cavalry under Herman responded. When they arrived, they attacked the Mexican positions on top of hills along the other side of the border. The assault was successful and the Mexican troops with their German advisers were defeated. In all, 30–129 Mexicans, two Germans, and seven Americans died in the fighting. After the battle, German military activity in Sonora ceased. The Battle of Ambos Nogales was the last major engagement of the Border War.


=== 1919 ===
American and Mexican forces skirmished near El Paso, Texas, on the border on 16 June in what was known as the Battle of Ciudad Juárez. This conflict is singular in the fact that the Mexican army and the American army joined forces to fight the Villistas led by Pancho Villa. It was the second-largest battle of the Mexican Revolution involving the United States, and is considered the last battle of the Border War, although there were other incursions such as the US military crossings into Mexico during the Candelaria border incursion of 1919.
The Treaty of Versailles was signed on 28 June at the Palace of Versailles which stated that Germany and all opposing nations agree on peace and war reparations be made due to all of the damage done to cities and innocent people. This was also known as the most important peace treaty of World War 1.


== The Borderlands ==
The 1910s saw escalated violence between Anglo-Americans and Mexican-Americans in Texas. There were numerous instances of violence, including lynchings, against Mexicans by vigilantes, and law enforcement, such as the Texas Rangers. Violence was at its highest from 1915 to 1919, in response to the Plan de San Diego by Mexican and Tejano insurgents to conquer Texas. This further increased the prevalence of anti-Mexican sentiment. At least 300 Mexican Americans were killed in Texas during the 1910s, with total estimates ranging from hundreds to thousands killed. At least 100 Mexican Americans were lynched in the 1910s, mostly in Texas. 20 percent of all recorded lynchings of Mexicans in the United States occurred between 1910 and 1920. About 400 Anglo-Texans were also killed total in unrest and attacks along the border during the 1910s, and much property was destroyed.


== Occupation of Veracruz ==
The United States occupation of Veracruz (21 April  to 23 November 1914) came in the midst of poor diplomatic relations between Mexico and the United States, and was related to the ongoing Mexican Revolution. Tensions were further escalated by the Tampico Affair of 9 April 1914, where nine American sailors landed in a restricted dock area and were subsequently detained for an hour and a half. Following this, "the Ypiranga incident—in which the U.S. learned that the SS Ypiranga, a German steamer, was about to deliver weapons and munitions to the Mexican government at Veracruz" occurred, violating the unilateral sanction the United States had imposed on Mexico. As a result, the U.S. military seized the port beginning with the Battle of Veracruz and ending seven months later.


== The Mexican Revolution ==
During the Mexican Border Wars, there was a series of revolutionary attacks on the Mexican Government and Military that started in 1910 and was most prolific throughout 1920. Francisco I. Madero challenged Porfirio Díaz in the election, who has been a longtime Mexican president but recently sent the citizens into economic struggles. Madero lost to an unfair ballot and this caused uprisings throughout Mexico which made Diaz lose control and overthrew him in 1911. After Madero gained control, he had to defend himself from other powerful leaders such as Bernardo Reyes and Victoriano Huerta. They believed that Madero was attacking for the wrong reasons and was able to end his leadership in 1913. This caused a series of attacks against powerful regional leaders throughout Mexico for the next 7 years. In 1914, leaders such as Venustiano Carranza and Pancho Villa overthrew Huerta and Reyes' regime until 1915. Carranza later betrayed Pancho Villa and by 1917, Carranza created the Constitution of Mexico and promoted land reform in Mexico as well as other important documents and increased the power of the federal government.


== See also ==
Bandit War
Border War (disambiguation)
List of border wars
La Matanza (1910–1920)
Mexican–American War
Mexican Revolution
Pancho Villa Expedition
Roosevelt Reservation
United States involvement in the Mexican Revolution
World War I
List of United States invasions of Latin American countries


== References ==


=== Notes ===


=== Bibliography ===
Britton, John A. (1995). Revolution and ideology: images of the Mexican Revolution in the United States. Lexington, Ky: University Press of Kentucky. doi:10.2307/j.ctt130jssk. ISBN 978-0-8131-1896-3. JSTOR j.ctt130jssk.
Weber, John (2008). The Shadow Of The Revolution: South Texas, The Mexican Revolution, And The Evolution Of Modern American Labor Relations (PhD thesis). College of William and Mary. doi:10.21220/S2-3P1M-Z736. ISBN 978-0-549-96152-9.
Barnes, Alexander F. (26 February 2016). "On the border: The National Guard mobilizes for war in 1916". United States Army.
Johnson, Jack K. "1916: Trial Run on the Mexican Border" (PDF). Military Historical Society of Minnesota.
Parra, Carlos Francisco (Spring 2010). "Valientes Nogalenses: The 1918 Battle Between the U.S. and Mexico that Transformed Ambos Nogales". The Journal of Arizona History. 51 (1): 1–32. ISSN 0021-9053. JSTOR 41697262.


== External links ==

 Media related to Mexican Border War (1910–1919) at Wikimedia Commons

Neopolynoe antarctica is a scale worm known from the Magallanes Region of the South Atlantic Ocean and from the Southern Ocean south of New Zealand at depths to about 200 m.


== Description ==
Neopolynoe antarctica has up to 86 segments with 15 pairs of elytra. There is a grayish-brown ovate ring and faint spots along the dorsum with the rings also on the dorsal cirri and antennae. The prostomium has a pair of acute anterior projections on its anterior margin and the lateral antennae are inserted beneath (ventrally) it. The notochaetae are distinctly thicker than the neurochaetae and possess bidentate tips.


== Biology ==
Neopolynoe antarctica has a commensal relationship with other tube-building polychaetes, with them hosting N. antarctica inside their tubes. Other host taxa include hydroids of the genus Thuiaria.


== References ==

Jenelle is a given name. Notable people with the name (or close variants including Jennell and Jennelle) include:

Jenelle Crooks (born 1994), Australian racing cyclist
Jenelle Cunningham (born 1990), Trinidad and Tobago football defender
Jenelle Hutcherson (born 1985), American hair artist, activist, public figure, designer, youth mentor and visionary
Jenelle Kohanchuk (born 1990), American ice hockey forward
Jenelle Porter, American art curator and author of exhibition catalogs and essays
Jenelle Riley (born 1972), American screenwriter, actress, journalist, and producer
Jenelle Roybal, Native American politician
Jennell Hawkins (1938–2006), American r&b singer
Jennell Jaquays (1956–2024), American game designer, artist
Jennelle V. Moorhead (1903–1999), American educator

Nick Yates is an English badminton player.


== Badminton career ==
Yates represented England and won a gold medal in the team event and two silver medals in the singles and doubles, at the 1982 Commonwealth Games in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.
Four years later he represented England again and won another gold medal in the team event in addition to a bronze medal in the singles, at the 1986 Commonwealth Games in Edinburgh, Scotland.


== Achievements ==


=== IBF World Grand Prix ===
The World Badminton Grand Prix sanctioned by International Badminton Federation (IBF) from 1983 to 2006.
Men's singles

Men's doubles


== References ==

The Clackmannanshire Bridge (Scottish Gaelic: Drochaid Chlach Mhannainn) is a road bridge over the Firth of Forth in Scotland which opened to traffic on 19 November 2008. Prior to 1 October 2008 the bridge was referred to as the Upper Forth Crossing while the name was chosen.


== Background ==

The increasing levels of traffic using the existing Kincardine Bridge led to a public inquiry being held into options to ease traffic flow over the Forth and around the small town of Kincardine. The Kincardine Bridge was the main access across the river for heavy goods vehicles during stormy weather when the Forth Road Bridge would not allow high-sided vehicles to cross during strong winds. In 2000 proposals were put forward for a number of alternatives, one of which was a new crossing running north-northwest of the existing bridge, bypassing the town of Kincardine altogether.
In 2005 the new crossing was given the go-ahead, and construction began in June 2006, with the sod-cutting ceremony performed by the Scottish Transport Minister, Tavish Scott, accompanied by the Earl of Elgin who as a boy had performed the ceremony for the Kincardine Bridge.
The bridge was officially opened by Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond on 28 November 2008.  At the ceremony, Salmond said: "This is a world-class infrastructure project which will cut journey times, improve central Scotland connections, and provide a unique gateway to Clackmannanshire, Fife and Falkirk".


== Description ==
The final cost of the project was £120 million and it was designed to accommodate about 20,000 vehicle movements per day. The bridge deck is 1.2 km (0.75 mi) long, weighs 35,000 tonnes (34,450 long tons; 38,580 short tons) and sits on 25 piers which are each filled with 840 tonnes (830 long tons; 930 short tons) of concrete.


== Archaeology ==
Archaeological work, undertaken by Headland Archaeology, in early 2006, in advance of the construction of the northern approach road for the bridge found evidence of human occupation of the area from between the Early Neolithic and Medieval periods. The archaeologists found the largest (206 vessels) and best-dated assemblage of Middle Neolithic Impressed Ware in Scotland, to that date. Other notable finds were four Early to Middle Bronze Age roundhouses dating to c 1750‒1300 BC; a large pit containing parts of at least 37 pots, and two large double-ring roundhouses, an oval building, and ancillary structures and features dating to the Middle to Late Bronze Age i.e. 1300‒900 BC. There is also evidence of activity during the Iron Age and two medieval corn-drying kilns.


== Naming ==
The bridge is positioned in an area where three council area boundaries converge.  The north approach road to the bridge leaves from Clackmannanshire, the bridge itself standing in Fife, and the south approach to the bridge is within Falkirk.  This means that the span of the bridge is within Fife; however, it can only be accessed by travelling through either Clackmannanshire or Falkirk council areas.  Due to this unique situation a minor row over naming broke out between those local authorities with a vested interest. Clackmannanshire Council voted to suggest "Clackmannanshire Bridge" - even though two other councils, Fife and Falkirk, are involved and no part of the bridge would be inside the Clackmannanshire area. Fife Council responded with "Kingdom Bridge" (referring to the historic kingdom of Fife). Other suggestions included "Wallace Bridge" after Sir William Wallace. Following a public consultation, the Scottish Government announced on 1 October 2008 that the name Clackmannanshire Bridge was to be adopted.


== See also ==
List of bridges in Scotland


== References ==


== External links ==
Drive to name road bridge locally - BBC website
Benaim - Bridge Designer
WA Fairhurst - Bridge finishes and associated road design
 Media related to Clackmannanshire Bridge at Wikimedia Commons

Bold Lad (1962–1986) was an American Champion Thoroughbred racehorse.


== Background ==
Bold Lad bred and raced by Gladys Phipps and her brother Ogden L. Mills under their Wheatley Stable banner. His sire was eight-time leading sire in North America Bold Ruler, and his dam was the racing mare Misty Morn. He was trained by Bill Winfrey.
Beatrice Mills Forbes, Lady Granard, the sister of Gladys Mills Phipps and Ogden L. Mills, bred the British mare Barn Pride to Bold Ruler, producing another colt named Bold Lad. Bold Lad raced in England and Ireland, where he, too, won Champion Two-Year-Old Colt honors.


== 1964: two-year-old season ==
At age two, Bold Lad won every important race for his age group. He set a new Saratoga track record of 1:15 3/5 in winning the 6+1⁄2 furlongs (4,300 ft; 1,300 m) Hopeful Stakes and equalled the Aqueduct track record time of 1:16 in his win in the 6+1⁄2-furlong (4,300 ft; 1,300 m) Futurity Stakes. Bold Lad's performances made him a unanimous selection as the 1964 American Champion Two-Year-Old Colt. 
At the end of 1964, Thomas Trotter, handicapper for The Jockey Club, assigned Bold Lad high weight for 1965 of 130 pounds (59 kg) in the Experimental Free Handicap. The exceptional weight was higher than even the amount assigned to Secretariat, that was allotted 129 pounds (59 kg) in 1972. Bold Lad was the winterbook favorite for the first leg of the 1965 U.S. Triple Crown series, the Kentucky Derby.


== 1965: three-year-old season ==
In early February, Bold Lad suffered a popped splint in his right foreleg while at Hialeah Park Race Track. He did not return to racing until April 5, when he scored a win over older horses in a 6 furlongs (4,000 ft; 1,200 m) sprint at Aqueduct Racetrack. He then ran third in the 1+3⁄8 mi (2.2 km) Wood Memorial Stakes and won the Derby Trial Stakes. Sent off in the 1+1⁄4 mi (2.0 km) Kentucky Derby as the betting favorite, Bold Lad was in contention at the top of the stretch, but then tired badly and finished 10th in the field of 11 horses behind winner Lucky Debonair. Bold Lad was diagnosed as suffering from a slight case of anemia and did not run in the Preakness Stakes or Belmont Stakes. Injured again on June 20, 1965, while working out at Aqueduct Racetrack, he underwent surgery and did not race again that year.


== 1966: four-year-old season ==
He was brought back slowly in his four-year-old season by trainer Eddie Neloy, who took over the Wheatley Stable when Bill Winfrey retired. Bold Lad returned to racing on April 30, 1966, with a win at Garden State Park.[1] On May 6, at Aqueduct Racetrack, he won the Alerted Purse and then on May 18 won the Roseben Handicap by three lengths. Still at Aqueduct, on May 30, 1966, Bold Lad won the prestigious Metropolitan Handicap by 2+1⁄2 lengths while running the mile in 1:34 1/5 under 132 pounds (60 kg). Unbeaten after four starts that season, he was entered in the Suburban Handicap. He was assigned 135 pounds (61 kg), the highest weight for that race since Grey Lag in 1923. On an extremely hot day, he finished sixth to winner Buffle, which carried 110 pounds (50 kg). [2] Jockey Braulio Baeza said Bold Lad seemed to favor his left ankle after the finish of the race. Precautionary X-rays were taken and on August 2, 1966, it was announced that Bold Lad was to be retired to stud. [3]
Despite his shortened 1966 campaign, at the end of the year, Bold Lad was runner-up to Bold Bidder in the voting by the Thoroughbred Racing Association for 1966 American Champion Older Male Horse honors.


== Stud record ==
While Bold Lad sired a number of good offspring as a stallion in Kentucky, France, and Japan, none matched his success on the track. Successor, a full brother to Bold Lad bred by Wheatley Stable and foaled in 1964, also won American Champion Two-Year-Old Colt honors.


== Pedigree ==


== References ==

Bold Lad's pedigree and partial racing stats

The Vanishing West is a 1928 American silent Western film serial directed by Richard Thorpe. The film is considered to be lost.


== Cast ==
Jack Perrin as Jack Marvin
Eileen Sedgwick as Betty Kincaid
Jack Dougherty as Jim Marvin (as Jack Daugherty)
Yakima Canutt as Steve Marvin
Leo D. Maloney as Jack Trent
William Fairbanks as Long Collins
Mickey Bennett as Wally Lee (as Little Mickey Bennett)
Helen Gibson as Mrs. Kincaid
Bob Burns as Robert Lee
Fred Church
Harry Lorraine


== See also ==
List of film serials
List of film serials by studio


== References ==


== External links ==
The Vanishing West at IMDb

Pandulf (sometimes spelled Pandulph or Pandolph) may refer to:

Pandulf of Pisa, 12th-century Italian cardinal
Pandulf Verraccio (died 1226), papal legate to England and Bishop of Norwich
Pandulf Ironhead (died 981)
Pandulf II of Benevento (died 1014), also known as Pandulf the Old
Pandulf II of Capua (died 983)
Pandulf II of Salerno (died 983)
Pandulf III of Benevento (died 1060)
Pandulf IV of Benevento (died 1074)
Pandulf IV of Capua (died 1050)
Pandulf V of Capua (died after 1027)
Pandulf VI of Capua (died 1057)


== See also ==
Pandolfo (disambiguation), the Italian form of the name

Patons Rock is a coastal settlement in the Tasman District of New Zealand. It is located in Golden Bay, northwest of Tākaka.
Located on the coast of Golden Bay, between Tākaka and Collingwood, two kilometres (1.2 mi) north of State Highway 60, Patons Rock was named for the pioneer Paton family, who arrived in Nelson on the Fifeshire in 1842. A shallow beach runs for 2.5 kilometres (1.6 mi) and is regarded as being safe for swimming. The eponymous rock, Patons Rock, is located at the eastern end of the beach. Many of the dwellings in Patons Rock are holiday homes, and there are no shops in the settlement.


== Demographics ==
Patons Rock locality covers 4.58 km2 (1.77 sq mi). It is part of the larger Golden Bay / Mohua statistical area.

Patons Rock had a population of 117 in the 2023 New Zealand census, an increase of 21 people (21.9%) since the 2018 census, and an increase of 36 people (44.4%) since the 2013 census. There were 57 males and 57 females in 54 dwellings. 5.1% of people identified as LGBTIQ+. The median age was 59.0 years (compared with 38.1 years nationally). There were 21 people (17.9%) aged under 15 years, 6 (5.1%) aged 15 to 29, 51 (43.6%) aged 30 to 64, and 36 (30.8%) aged 65 or older.
People could identify as more than one ethnicity. The results were 92.3% European (Pākehā), 7.7% Māori, and 2.6% Asian. English was spoken by 94.9%, Māori by 5.1%, and other languages by 15.4%. No language could be spoken by 5.1% (e.g. too young to talk). The percentage of people born overseas was 28.2, compared with 28.8% nationally.
Religious affiliations were 17.9% Christian, and 2.6% other religions. People who answered that they had no religion were 64.1%, and 7.7% of people did not answer the census question.
Of those at least 15 years old, 24 (25.0%) people had a bachelor's or higher degree, 54 (56.2%) had a post-high school certificate or diploma, and 18 (18.8%) people exclusively held high school qualifications. The median income was $29,800, compared with $41,500 nationally. 6 people (6.2%) earned over $100,000 compared to 12.1% nationally. The employment status of those at least 15 was 30 (31.2%) full-time and 21 (21.9%) part-time.


== References ==

Hypericum sect. Adenosepalum is one of 36 sections in the genus Hypericum. Its type species is Hypericum montanum.


== Distribution ==
Species in the section are found primarily in Western and Central Europe, Central Russia, the Caucasus, and Morocco.


== Description ==
The section contains a variety of types of plants including shrubs, shrublets, and wiry or soft herbs that grow to be up to 2.5 metres (8.2 ft) tall. If the species in the section are woody, they will be deciduous. They will either be glabrous or have simple hairs and have dark black glands on their leaves. The leaves are placed opposite but in very rare cases are 3-whorled.


== Species ==

Section Adenosepalum contains thirty species divided into four subsections as well as two nothospecies. In addition, H. annulatum has three recognized subspecies and H. aethiopicum has two.

Family Hypericaceae Juss.
Genus Hypericum L.
Hypericum sect. Adenosepalum Spach.
subsect. Adenosepalum
H. annulatum Moris
H. annulatum subsp. afromontanum (Bullock) N. Robson
H. annulatum subsp. annulatum
H. annulatum subsp. intermedium (Steud. ex A.Rich.) N.Robson
H. athoum Boiss. & Orph.
H. atomarium Boiss.
H. cuisinii Barbey
H. delphicum Boiss. & Heldr.
H. lanuginosum Lam.
H. montanum L. (type species)
H. reflexum L.f.
subsect. Aethiopica N. Robson
H. abilianum N. Robson
H. aethiopicum Thunb.
H. aethiopicum subsp. aethiopicum
H. aethiopicum subsp. sonderi (Bredell) N. Robson
H. afrum Lam.
H. conjungens N. Robson
H. glandulosum Aiton
H. kiboënse Oliv.
subsect. Caprifolia
H. caprifolium Boiss.
H. coadunatum Chr. Sm.
H. collenetteae N. Robson
H. naudinianum Coss. & Durieu
H. psilophytum (Diels) Maire
H. pubescens Boiss.
H. scruglii Bacch., Brullo & Salmeri
H. sinaicum Hochst. ex Boiss.
H. somaliense N. Robson
H. tomentosum L.
Huber-Morathii group
H. decaisneanum Coss. & Daveau
H. formosissimum Takht.
H. huber-morathii N. Robson
H. minutum P.H.Davis & Poulter
H. sechmenii Ocak & O.Koyuncu
Nothospecies
H. × joerstadii Lid
H. pubescens × tomentosum


== References ==


== External links ==

Wied il-Kbir (English: Big Valley) is a wadi located in Birzebbuga, Malta. The name "Wied" indicates the existence of water although there is little water present due to a substantial amount of refuse being thrown into the valley causing rain water to head into the ocean. To combat this, catchments for water were planned between July 2022 and May 2021. The valley consists mostly of urban development and arable land, with 3% of it being dedicated to mineral extraction and natural areas.


== References ==

Rossari Biotech is an Indian chemical manufacturing company with a focus on specialty chemicals. It is also engaged in production of specialty enzymes and chemicals in India that is used in the pharmaceuticals, paper, construction, textiles, nutrition and animal health industries. The company was started in 2003 as a partnership firm titled Rossari Labtech and was incorporated into a company in 2009 and was renamed as Rossari Biotech.
It has two R&D facilities, one at Silvassa manufacturing facility and the second in Dahej.


== Awards ==
BIRAC Best Innovator award (2014)
Bio Excellence award from Government of Karnataka (2011)


== References ==

This article describes the knockout stage of the 2017–18 Women's EHF Champions League.


== Qualified teams ==
The top four placed teams from each of the two main round groups advanced to the knockout stage.


== Format ==
The first-placed team of each group faces the fourth-placed team, and the second-placed team will play against the third-placed team from the other group. After that a draw will be held to determine the pairings for the final four.


== Quarterfinals ==


=== Overview ===


=== Matches ===

Győri ETO won 56–48 on aggregate.

Rostov-Don won 63–51 on aggregate.

CSM București won 54–48 on aggregate.

HC Vardar won 56–48 on aggregate.


== Final four ==
The final four was held at the László Papp Budapest Sports Arena in Budapest, Hungary on 12 and 13 May 2018. The draw took place on 17 April 2018.


=== Bracket ===


=== Semifinals ===


=== Third place game ===


=== Final ===


== References ==


== External links ==
Final four website

The Yanan Formation, alternatively spelled the Yan'an Formation (Chinese: 延安组), is a geological formation in China, it is also alternatively considered a group. The age of the formation is uncertain, with estimates ranging from Toarcian to Bajocian. It is divided up into 5 members, with the designation of Y1 through Y5. Y2, Y3 and Y4 are predominantly dark shales, while Y1 and Y5 are composed of sandstones, coal beds and interbedded mudstones. The depositional environment at the time was when the Ordos Basin formed a large inland lake, surrounded by floodplains. The dark shales have been explored for the potential of producing shale gas. The coal has also been explored for the production of coalbed methane. The formation is also notable for its fossil content, with dinosaur footprints having been found in the formation. The dinosaur Lingwulong was formerly thought to have been found in this formation, but the strata was later attributed to the overlying Zhiluo Formation.


== Fossil content ==


=== Dinosaurs ===


==== Sauropods ====


=== Insects ===


=== Plants ===


== References ==

Aishwarya Kailash Mishra (born 16 August 1997) is an Indian track and field athlete who specializes in 400 m.


== Career ==
At the 2022 Asian Games, Mishra narrowly missed the podium, with a fourth place finish in the women’s 400 m event. She later secured a silver medal as part of India’s women’s 4×400 m relay team.
She clocked 47.90s in the 4 × 400 m relay at Chandigarh. Her best in 4 × 400 m relay mixed event came at Supachalasai National Stadium, Bangkok in July. She was part of the 4 × 400 m relay team that clocked 3:30.41, her personal best, at Mahinda Rajapaksha Stadium, Diyagama, Sri Lanka.
Earlier in July 2023, she also won a bronze medal in 400m at the Asian Athletics Championships at Supachalasai National Stadium, Bangkok.
In May 2023, she won the gold in 400m at the 26th National Federation Cup Senior Athletics Championships, Birsa Munda Foot Ball Stadium, Morabadi, Ranchi.
In March 2022, she clocked her best 2:06.44, in 800m at Patiala.


== Controversy ==
In April 2022, following the Federation Cup in Kozhikode, Aishwarya Mishra was unavailable for a mandatory dope test, which led to reports that she had gone missing. She later clarified that her absence was due to attending to her ailing grandmother. Mishra subsequently returned to competition at the National Inter-State Senior Athletics Championships held in June 2022.


== References ==


== External links ==
Aishwarya Mishra at World Athletics

Theodore "Ted" Dumitru (born Dumitru Teodorescu; 2 September 1939 – 26 May 2016) was a Romanian football manager who is best known for his time in South Africa. Dumitru was one of few coaches who have led South Africa's 'big three' clubs Kaizer Chiefs, Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates.
Dumitru was brought to South Africa by the owner of Kaizer Chiefs, Kaizer Motaung, in 1985, Dumitru went on to become the most successful coach in South African professional football. The veteran coach had an illustrious career during which he amassed 18 trophies with Chiefs and Sundowns, including two back-to-back league championships with each side.


== Career ==


=== Early coaching career in Romania and Turkey ===
Dumitru started playing football with local side Sportul Studenţesc in the late 1950s, but a serious knee injury forced him to hang up his boots, as a result he began studying to become a coach. After obtaining his coaching license, Dumitru became the youngest manager ever in Divizia A at age 25, when he joined Ştiinţa Craiova, currently known as Universitatea Craiova, in the middle of the 1965–66 season with whom he finished the season on the eighth position. Dumitru also coached the Romania U23 Olympic team between 1967 and 1968.
In 1969, he went to Turkey where he managed Altay Izmir, Beşiktaş and then Mersin. In his first season in charge at Altay he guided the club to a top-three position in the Turkish Süper League.


=== Move to the United States and final destination Africa ===
In 1971, Dumitru moved to the United States and became head coach of the Texas Longhorns men's soccer team at the University of Texas, before joining Rochester Lancers in the North American Soccer League in 1974. He coached that side through the 1975 season and went on to coach the New York Apollo in the old American Soccer League.
In 1980, Dumitru moved to Africa and was appointed coach of the Zambia national team. He helped Chipolopolo qualify for the 1982 Africa Cup of Nations, but was unable to coach them during the tournament itself due to his US passport. The Afcon tournament was hosted by Libya, a country where Americans were not welcome at the time. During his stint Zambia's President Kenneth Kaunda once said of him: 

"He is more than a coach; he is a son of Africa. He is a humanist who puts sports well-being ahead of his profession."

He left Zambia and signed a contract with the African Football Confederation, in which he was sent to Swaziland, then in Namibia, to help develop football in those countries.
In 1985, Dumitru joined South African side Kaizer Chiefs and won eight trophies with them during his three-year tenure. After leaving the club he worked in developing young players and local coaches across the country.
In 1992, he established the Chibuku Youth Centre in Soweto, which was the first development program in the country. He was later responsible for the Esselen Park School of Excellence that has produced players such as Steven Pienaar and Daine Klate.
In July 1997, he took over as coach at Mamelodi Sundowns and led The Brazilians to two consecutive PSL titles in 1998 and 1999, as well as both the Nedbank Cup and Rothmans Cup. Dumitru managed among others, Orlando Pirates and Manning Rangers with mixed success. He was appointed manager of the Namibia national team in November 2000 replacing Lucky Richter, but resigned a few months later after an argument with former Chiefs midfielder, Robert Nauseb.
He rejoined Mamelodi Sundowns and helped his side reach their first and only African Champions League Final in 2001, which they lost to record holders Al Ahly.
In June 2003, he returned to Kaiser Chiefs and won back-to-back league titles in 2004 and 2005, after which he retired from club coaching. In South Africa, Dumitru was nicknamed "Master Ted", "Mr Magic" or "The Professor", because of his studious approach to the game.
In November 2005, he was hired as South Africa's manager ahead of the 2006 edition of the Africa Cup of Nations, but he was shown the exit door soon after his team's dismissal performance at the tournament where they failed to score a goal.
In 2009, Dumitru got involved with the Mamelodi Sundowns Youth Academy. Dubbed "The Puk Tawana Project", it produced 26 players who went on to play professional football who were on an accelerated development programme for 18 months. Breaking records for the number of graduates from academy to professional level. Among them included Keagan Dolly, Buhle Mkhwanazi, Samuel Julies and Jabulani Shongwe. After leaving Mamelodi Sundowns in 2011, he joined the North West University Sports Institute from 2012 to 2013 briefly. In 2013 he played an instrumental role in the revival of the South African Football Coaches Association (SAFCA). He played a key role in setting up the structures, giving the organisation direction and leadership as well as rolling out workshops around the country. He was involved up until his day of passing.
Over 150 players were developed at the Sport School of Excellence under his guidance and through his coaching solutions. Over 180 local coaches were developed through his programmes at the SA Soccer Academy.


== Death ==
Dumitru died on 26 May 2016, at the age of 76, after suffering a heart attack in a Johannesburg mall. A memorial service for the late coach was held on 2 June at Ellis Park Arena in Johannesburg.


== Honours ==
Sources: 


=== Manager ===
New York Apollo

American Soccer League: 1978; runner-up: 1976
Kaizer Chiefs

PSL Champion: 2003–04, 2004–05
Vodacom Challenge: 2003
BP Top Eight Cup: 1985, 1987
Coca-Cola Cup: 1986, 1988, 2003, 2004
Mainstay Cup: 1987
Charity Spectacular Cup: 1986, 1987, 1988, 2003
NSL runner-up: 1987
Mamelodi Sundowns

PSL Champion: 1997–98, 1998–99
Nedbank Cup: 1998
Rothmans Cup: 1999
CAF Champions League runner-up: 2001
Orlando Pirates

African Cup Winners' Cup semi-final: 1999


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Dumitru, Theodore. Maximal Training. Tafelberg Publishers Ltd, 2005. ISBN 978-0-6240-4216-7.

Al-Mansur II Muhammad was the Ayyubid emir of Hama 1244–1284, son of al-Muzaffar II Mahmud and grandson of al-Mansur I Muhammad.   He was the great-great grandson of Saladin’s brother Nur ad-Din Shahanshah. His mother was Ghaziya Khatun.


== Early years ==

Al Mansur came to the throne at a time when the Egyptian Sultan As-Salih Ayyub was consolidating his power. In spring 1247 As-Salih Ayyub set out for Syria where he met emir Al-Ashraf Musa of Homs as well as Al Mansur.  Both were young - Al-Ashraf Musa was eighteen and Al Mansur was just twelve - and new on their thrones. As-Salih Ayyub campaigned against his rival An-Nasir Yusuf of Aleppo but returned to Egypt to confront a new Crusader threat in 1249.  Shortly afterwards he died. His son and successor Al-Muazzam Turanshah did not long outlive him and in 1250 the Ayyubid dynasty was overthrown in Egypt by the Bahri mamluks.


== Threats from Mamluks and Mongols ==
The effect of this coup in Egypt was to make An-Nasir Yusuf of Aleppo the senior Ayyubid ruler, and Al Mansur joined the other minor emirs in the army he assembled to invade Egypt.  The Ayyubid army went down to a disastrous defeat at Al-Salihiyya outside Cairo.  This exposed An-Nasir and all of the other emirs who had supported him to the dangers of a Mamluk invasion of Syria, and in the following years the Mamluks steadily expanded their power over Palestine and the southern portions of Syria.  At the same time, the Mongols were emerging as a serious threat in the East, and took Baghdad in 1258. In September 1259 (Ramadan 657) Hulagu Khan launched his long-awaited invasion of Syria.   Crossing the Euphrates, Hulagu first laid siege to Aleppo in January 1260 (Safar 658), which unwisely declined his offer to let it surrender.  The Mongols stormed the city after a brief siege, and laid waste to it without mercy.  Needing no further warning, Al-Mansur sent an embassy to Hulagu to plead for the lives and livelihoods of the people of Hama.  Hulagu agreed to spare the city, and sent a Persian official named Khusraushah to rule the city as his viceregent.
The other Ayyubid emirates in Syria all quickly submitted to the Mongols around the same time, although they continued to scheme with each other and with the Mamluks to try and organise a military coalition to drive the Mongols back.   Al-Mansur was closely allied with An-Nasir Yusuf, ruler of Damascus, who fled before the Mongols arrived and headed for Egypt with Al-Mansur in attendance, where he now hoped to form an alliance with the Mamluks to drive the Mongols out and restore himself to paramountcy in Syria.  However, as he approached the encampment of the Mamluk general Qutuz he began to mistrust him and lost faith in the alliance he had proposed.  Cornered between the Mongols heading south and the Mamluks heading north, he entrusted his family to Al-Mansur, handed over command of his troops to him, and directed him to join Qutuz in his camp.  An-Nasir himself with his brother and son remained behind and he was captured by Mongol skirmishers and sent back to Hulagu as a prisoner.


== Mamluk Restoration ==
In obeying Am-Nasir Yusuf and joining the Mamluk army, Al-Mansur took a decisive step which was to restore him to Hama, albeit under Mamluk suzerainty.  The Mamluk army headed north to Ain Jalut where they inflicted a decisive defeat on the Mongols, turning back their invasion in a way which was almost unprecedented in the Mongol experience.  Al Mansur served with distinction during the battle, and was restored to his domains in Hama as a Mamluk vassal. His loyalty thereafter to the Mamluks meant that while the other Ayyubid states were gradually absorbed by them over the next few years, Hama remained under Ayyubid rule until 1341, longer than any other Syrian city.
Al Mansur ruled until 1284, when he was succeeded by his son Al-Muzaffar III Mahmud. Al Mansur’s sister was betrothed to the Mamluk Faris ad-Din Aktai who was murdered by the Mamluk Sultan Aybak because he was too much of a threat to his rule.


== References ==

Parkgate Street (Irish: Sráid Gheata na Páirce) is a street in Dublin which connects Benburb Street to the east and Conyngham Road to the west. It is named after the main gate to The Phoenix Park at the end of Chesterfield Avenue, the parks main thoroughfare.


== History ==

Parkgate Street is named for its proximity to the main entrance to the Phoenix Park. The street was created when the road running west from Barrack Street (now Benburb Street) to Islandbridge was widened by the Wide Streets Commission in the 1780s to create Parkgate Street and Conyngham Road. The Park gate of Phoenix Park and the thoroughfare appear on maps as early as 1756.
A public fountain designed by Woodward and Deane in 1860 remains on the street as a recess at the entrance to the park. Ryan's pub on Parkgate Street is a fine example of a Victorian Dublin pub dating from 1896, and retains many of its original features.
The Criminal Courts of Justice sit on the corner of Parkgate Street and Infirmary Road, designed by Henry J. Lyons & Partners and built in 2010. It was the largest court project built in Ireland for over 200 years.


=== National Shell Factory ===

A 30 storey residential tower is planned for 42a Parkgate Street at the junction with Wolfe Tone Quay at the River Liffey. It was designed by Howells & Reddy Architecture + Urbanism, and construction beginning from August 2026. This site was the former iron foundry, later the National Shell Factory during WWI, and later a warehouse and office for Hickey's Fabrics. After the shell factory closed in 1921, it was used as a storage depot by the British Army, and was attacked by the I.R.A.


== References ==

Goran Stanisavljević (3 January 1964 – 26 May 2024) was a Serbian football player  and manager. He died in Austria on 26 May 2024, at the age of 60.


== References ==


== External links ==
Goran Stanisavljević at WorldFootball.net
Goran Stanisavljevic at ÖFB (in German)

Micrispa musae is a species of beetle of the family Chrysomelidae. It is found in south-western and north-western New Guinea.


== Description ==
Adults reach a length of about 3.3-3.8 mm. They are ochraceous to pitchy black, while the head is reddish and the elytra are reddish brown with the apical margin testaceous and most of the disc pitchy black with orange to reddish brown portions.


== Life history ==
The recorded host plants for this species are Musa and Costus species.


== References ==

In the mathematical subfield of graph theory a level structure of a rooted graph is a partition of the vertices into subsets that have the same distance from a given root vertex.


== Definition and construction ==
Given a connected graph G = (V, E) with V the set of  vertices and E the set of edges, and with a root vertex r, the level structure is a partition of the vertices into subsets Li called levels, consisting of the vertices at distance i from r. Equivalently, this set may be defined by setting L0 = {r}, and then, for i > 0, defining Li to be the set of vertices that are neighbors to vertices in Li − 1 but are not themselves in any earlier level.
The level structure of a graph can be computed by a variant of breadth-first search:

algorithm level-BFS(G, r):
    Q ← {r}
    for ℓ from 0 to ∞:
        process(Q, ℓ)  // the set Q holds all vertices at level ℓ
        mark all vertices in Q as discovered
        Q' ← {}
        for u in Q:
            for each edge (u, v):
                if v is not yet marked:
                    add v to Q'
        if Q' is empty:
            return
        Q ← Q'


== Properties ==
In a level structure, each edge of G either has both of its endpoints within the same level, or its two endpoints are in consecutive levels.


== Applications ==
The partition of a graph into its level structure may be used as a heuristic for graph layout problems such as graph bandwidth. The Cuthill–McKee algorithm is a refinement of this idea, based on an additional sorting step within each level.
Level structures are also used in algorithms for sparse matrices, and for constructing separators of planar graphs.


== References ==

Illnau-Effretikon is a municipality in the district of Pfäffikon in the canton of Zürich in Switzerland. It includes the villages of Illnau, Effretikon, Ottikon and Bisikon. On 1 January 2016 Kyburg and Illnau-Effretikon merged to form the municipality of Illnau-Effretikon.


== History ==

Illnau-Effretikon is first mentioned in 745 as Illenavvia and Erpfratinchova.  At first the name of the municipality was Illnau as that town used to be the political and economic center of the municipality. However, when the railway connection was built from Zurich to Winterthur in 1855, only the much smaller Effretikon was in a position to receive a railway station. Subsequently, the economic boom caused by the railway made Effretikon grow disproportionately until it had outgrown Illnau by the beginning of the 20th century. The name of the municipality was finally changed to Illnau-Effretikon in 1973. On 1 January 2016 the former municipality of Kyburg and Illnau-Effretikon merged to form the municipality of Illnau-Effretikon.


== Geography ==
Before the 2016 merger, Illnau-Effretikon had an area of 25.3 km2 (9.8 sq mi).  Of this area, 52.1% is used for agricultural purposes, while 29.4% is forested.  Of the rest of the land, 17.2% is settled (buildings or roads) and the remainder (1.3%) is non-productive (rivers, glaciers or mountains).  In 1996 housing and buildings made up 10.8% of the total area, while transportation infrastructure made up the rest (6.4%).  Of the total unproductive area, water (streams and lakes) made up 0.4% of the area.  As of 2007 12.5% of the total municipal area was undergoing some type of construction.
The municipality is located in the mid-Kempt valley.  It consists of the villages of Illnau, Effretikon (including Rikon), Ottikon and Bisikon as well as the hamlets of Agasul, Bietenholz, portions of Billikon, First, Horben, Kemleten, Luckhausen, portions of Mesikon and Oberkempttal.


== Demographics ==
Illnau-Effretikon has a population (as of 31 December 2020) of 17,352.  As of 2007, 20.9% of the population was made up of foreign nationals.  As of 2008 the gender distribution of the population was 49% male and 51% female.  Over the last 10 years the population has grown at a rate of 6.4%.  Most of the population (as of 2000) speaks German  (84.9%), with Italian being second most common ( 4.3%) and Albanian being third ( 2.1%).
In the 2007 election the most popular party was the SVP which received 38% of the vote.  The next two most popular parties were the SPS (17.7%) and the FDP (10.8%).
The age distribution of the population (as of 2000) is children and teenagers (0–19 years old) make up 20.1% of the population, while adults (20–64 years old) make up 66.7% and seniors (over 64 years old) make up 13.2%.  The entire Swiss population is generally well educated.  In Illnau-Effretikon about 75.6% of the population (between age 25-64) have completed either non-mandatory upper secondary education or additional higher education (either university or a Fachhochschule).  There are 6702 households in Illnau-Effretikon.
Illnau-Effretikon has an unemployment rate of 3.24%.  As of 2005, there were 293 people employed in the primary economic sector and about 73 businesses involved in this sector.  1610 people are employed in the secondary sector and there are 156 businesses in this sector.  3148 people are employed in the tertiary sector, with 488 businesses in this sector.  As of 2007 50% of the working population were employed full-time, and 50% were employed part-time.
As of 2008 there were 4085 Catholics and 6167 Protestants in Illnau-Effretikon.  In the 2000 census, religion was broken down into several smaller categories.  From the census, 48.4% were some type of Protestant, with 45.1% belonging to the Swiss Reformed Church and 3.3% belonging to other Protestant churches.  28.4% of the population were Catholic.  Of the rest of the population, 5.8% were Muslim, 8.4% belonged to another religion (not listed), 2.8% did not give a religion, and 11.2% were atheist or agnostic.
The historical population is given in the following table:


== Transportation ==

The municipality of Illnau-Effretikon is served by two railway stations. Effretikon railway station is on the Zurich to Winterthur main line and is served by Zürich S-Bahn routes S2, S3, S7, S8, S19 and S24. Illnau railway station is on the Effretikon to Hinwil line and is served by S3 and S19.


== Notable people ==
Ludwig Zehnder (1854 in Illnau – 1949) a Swiss physicist, the inventor of an interferometer
Walter Roderer (1920–2012 in Illnau) a Swiss actor and screenwriter 
Fabian Molina (born 1990) a Swiss politician, member of the National Council, brought up in Illnau-Effretikon


== References ==


== External links ==

Effretikon.ch: Illnau-Effretikon website

Route 171 is a north/south highway on the south shore of the St. Lawrence River in Quebec, Canada. Its southern terminus is in Scott at the junction of Route 173 and its northern terminus is in Lévis at the junction of Route 132. Route 171 follows the Chaudière River for most of its course, from the former town of Saint-Étienne-de-Lauzon up to Scott.
Since it parallels Autoroute 73, and as it is located on the western side of the Chaudiere (whereas most town centres are located on the eastern side), Route 171 is far from being a busy highway.


== Municipalities along Route 171 ==
Scott
Saint-Bernard
Saint-Lambert-de-Lauzon
Lévis


== Major intersections ==


== See also ==
List of Quebec provincial highways


== References ==


== External links ==
Provincial Route Map (Courtesy of the Quebec Ministry of Transportation) Archived 2008-05-17 at the Wayback Machine (in French)
Route 171 on Google Maps

Alexander Semenovich Brod (born 1969; Russian: Александр Семёнович Брод) is a Russian human rights activist.
He was a member of the Public Chamber of Russia between 2008 and 2012 and is a director of the Moscow Bureau for Human Rights. He is a member of the Expert Council at the Ombudsman of Russian Federation.


== Early life and career ==
Brod graduated from the Philology and Law faculty of the Samara State University.
Since 2001 he has been the director of the Moscow Bureau for Human Rights. The Bureau's declared aims include combating racism, xenophobia and antisemitism.
In 2004, the Bureau considered filing a lawsuit against Mel Gibson, the director of The Passion of the Christ, and the film’s distributor in Russia. Brod said "several Jewish organizations and individuals told us that the film fuels ethnic hatred and cultivates xenophobic myths about the Jewish people’s guilt for crucifying Christ". He also approved Russian military action against Georgia in 2008, saying that Russian troops prevented a genocide there.


== Awards ==
2003 — the Award for Contributions to the Development of Jewish Life in Russia from the Federation of Jewish Communities of Russia for his human rights activity.


== Sanctions ==
In 2015 Brod was included in Ukrainian sanction list.
In 2023 Brod was included in European Union sanction list as a Kremlin-loyalist human rights defender: "Since the start of Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, he has justified Russia’s invasion, and spread Russian propaganda and disinformation about the war. He denied the responsibility of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation for war crimes committed in Bucha, falsely blaming the Ukrainian forces for the massacre. He also spread misinformation about alleged Nazi crimes committed by the Government of Ukraine against its own people. Therefore, he is responsible for supporting and implementing actions and policies which undermine and threaten the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine".


== References ==


== External links ==
Biography(in Russian)
Moscow Bureau for Human Rights(in Russian)
Moscow Bureau for Human Rights(in English)

The William Henry Seward Memorial is located along Main Street (NY 17A/94) in downtown Florida, New York. It commemorates the life of Seward, a Florida native whose career in public service culminated with his tenure as Secretary of State under Abraham Lincoln, in which capacity he negotiated the purchase of Alaska from Russia.
It consists of a bronze bust of Seward by Daniel Chester French, who also sculpted Lincoln seated at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, set in the middle of a small circular plaza with benches designed by Richard Henry Dana III. Just behind it is S. S. Seward Institute, the local secondary school, named after Seward's father. It was unveiled September 24, 1930, and restored in 2000 after being added to the National Register of Historic Places the year before.
In 2007 the memorial was vandalized. Seward's bust was shifted and one of the benches cracked.


== See also ==

Public sculptures by Daniel Chester French
Sites and works regarding William H. Seward


== References ==

Thieves' Picnic is a mystery novel by Leslie Charteris featuring his Robin Hood-inspired crime fighter, Simon Templar, alias "The Saint". The book was first published in the United Kingdom in 1937 by Hodder and Stoughton, and in the United States by The Crime Club the same year. Later editions of the book were retitled The Saint Bids Diamonds; another alternate title is The Saint at the Thieves' Picnic.


== Plot summary ==
After Simon Templar intercepts a mysterious message intended for a jewel-smuggling ring during a trip to Spain, he and his sidekick Hoppy Uniatz follow the message's trail to Tenerife, Canary Islands where they rescue an elderly Dutch diamond cutter and his daughter from being beaten to death.
Templar learns that the old man is a reluctant member of the smuggling ring and, assisted by the daughter, sets out to bring down the gang. Things become more complicated when Templar learns that the man had been in possession of a lottery ticket worth the equivalent of $2 million, and that this ticket is now missing. So not only does The Saint have to rescue the diamond cutter and his daughter from the smuggling ring, he also has to track down the missing lottery ticket, which has sparked instability within the gang. Soon after, Hoppy and the diamond cutter go missing.
Templar, using his frequent "Sebastian Tombs" cover name, infiltrates the gang, posing as a freelance diamond cutter who is hired to replace the old man. (This despite the fact that Templar hasn't the slightest idea as to how to cut diamonds.) From within the gang, Templar plans to start the members double-crossing each other, but finds his work is already half done thanks to that missing lottery ticket.
Some later editions of this book include an afterword entitled "The Last Word" in which Charteris invites readers to join The Saint Club, a fan club that he founded in the 1930s. The annual dues for the club, Charteris writes, went to support the Arbour Youth Club located in east London, which at the time Charteris composed "The Last Word" was still recovering from the Blitz of World War II.


== Television adaptation ==
Thieves' Picnic was adapted as an episode of the TV series The Saint as "The Saint Bids Diamonds". The episode aired during the fourth season on 12 August 1965. It was one of the few full novels used as source material for the series.


== References ==

The Baháʼí Faith (بهائی‎) has a following of at least several hundred people in Lebanon dating back to 1870. The community includes around 400 people, with a centre in Beit Mery, just outside the capital Beirut, and cemeteries in Machgara and Khaldeh. On the other hand, the Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 3,900 Baháʼís in 2005.


== History ==

The first Baháʼís who came to present day Lebanon were Iranians who came in the 1870s. The founder of the Baháʼí Faith, Baháʼu'lláh, was exiled to Acre, which was at the time was part of the same Ottoman province, or vilayet, of Beirut.
In 1880, Baháʼu'lláh's son ʻAbdu'l-Bahá, visited Beirut at the invitation of Midhat Pasha, the Ottoman governor of the Syria Vilayet. A Beirut newspaper described his visit by saying "His Excellency, the learned, erudite, intelligent and illustrious ʻAbbas Effendi, resident of the city of ʻAkka, has arrived in our city". Following the visit Baha'u'llah wrote the "Tablet of the Land of Ba (Beirut)", later described as a "glowing tribute" to ʻAbdu'l-Bahá.
During his visits to Beirut, ʻAbdu'l-Bahá also met Muhammad Abduh, one of the key figures of Islamic Modernism and the Salafi movement, at a time when the two men were both opposed to the Ottoman ulama and shared similar goals of religious reform.  Rashid Rida asserts that during his visits to Beirut, ʻAbdu'l-Bahá would attend Abduh's study sessions.  Regarding the meetings of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá and Muhammad ʻAbduh, Shoghi Effendi asserts that "His several interviews with the well-known Shaykh Muhammad ʻAbdu served to enhance immensely the growing prestige of the community and spread abroad the fame of its most distinguished member."
In 1894 a Lebanese Christian, Ibrahim George Kheiralla, converted to the Baháʼí Faith whilst traveling in Cairo. After Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a specific tablet to him, he moved to Chicago in the United States and was instrumental in converting many of the early Baháʼí followers there.
Two Beirut universities - the American University of Beirut and the Saint Joseph University - had significant Baha'i student populations in the early twentieth century. The first Baha'i student was recorded in the 1890s, the “Society of the Baháʼí Students of Beirut" was formed in 1906 and by 1929 there were over 60 Baha'i students from Iran, Iraq, Egypt and Palestine. The university promoted "internationalism" as a core value and acknowledged the Baha'i students as a significant contribution to this vision. The Baha'i leader, Shoghi Effendi, studied at the American University of Beirut, graduating in 1917.
A Shia Sheikh in the eastern village of Machgara, Jaʼafar Al-Tahhan, converted to the Baháʼí Faith in 1923, and that village is now the centre of the community, with the only Lebanese local Spiritual Assembly.
The Encyclopedia of the Orient reported that there were 4,000 Baháʼís living in Lebanon, or around 0.13% of the population.
In 1968, a prominent Baháʼí academic, Suheil Bushrui, became a visiting professor at the American University of Beirut. In the 1980s he was appointed an advisor by President Amine Gemayel, indicating how Baháʼís are accepted. Bushrui was a noted scholar on Khalil Gibran, having published more than one volume about him and served as the Kahlil Gibran Chair for Values and Peace at the University of Maryland.


== Treatment ==
The Baha'i Faith is not one of the 18 recognised sects in Lebanon, so many Baháʼís are officially listed according to the religion of their ancestors, mostly Shiite. Baháʼí marriages are therefore not recognised, so Baháʼís tend to travel to Cyprus to have a civil wedding, which is recognised when they return. Baháʼís often face backlash and oppression for practicing their faith, such as an attack on the Baha'i cemetery in Machgara in 2023, in which tombstones were broken, which has led to many leaving the country. .


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Related documents and timeline on Bahá'í Library Online


== See also ==
Khalil Gibran who knew ʻAbdu'l-Bahá, head of the religion in his lifetime.
History of Lebanon
Religion in Lebanon

Sh 2-174 (also known as Valentine Rose Nebula) is a planetary nebula located in the constellation of Cepheus. It is one of the northernmost objects in the Sharpless catalog and has been the subject of debate regarding whether it is a planetary nebula interacting with the interstellar medium or an emission nebula ionized by a hot white dwarf.


== Discovery ==
Stewart Sharpless cataloged the object in 1959 as part of his Sharpless catalog of H II regions, based on red-sensitive photographic plates from the Palomar Observatory Sky Survey. He described it as a faint irregular nebula with a maximum diameter of about 10 arcminutes.


== Observations ==
The white dwarf was catalogued as GD 561 (WD 2342+806). It was first identified by American astronomer Henry L. Giclas in 1970. In 1993, R. Napiwotzki and D. Schönberner's observation of GD 561 showed similarities to the central stars of other known planetary nebulae such as Sh 2-216 and the Helix Nebula. In 1994, R.W. Tweedy and R. Napiwotzki confirmed the physical association between the planetary nebula and white dwarf GD 561 and found the white dwarf was outside the planetary nebula.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Sh 2-174 at Wikimedia Commons

Psalm 67 is the 67th psalm of the Book of Psalms, beginning in English in the King James Version: "God be merciful unto us, and bless us; and cause his face to shine upon us". In Latin, it is known as "Deus misereatur". In the slightly different numbering system of the Greek Septuagint version of the Bible, and in the Latin Vulgate, this psalm is Psalm 66. Its theme is a prayer for God's mercy, blessing and light.
The psalm forms a regular part of Jewish, Catholic, Lutheran, Anglican and other Protestant liturgies. It has been paraphrased in hymns and set to music.
Biblical commentator Cyril Rodd divides it into three sections: two "broadly parallel" sections in verses 1-3 and 4–5, which seek God's favour and blessing, and verses 6–7, which express universal joy as "all the nations"  experience God's blessing. Verses 3 and 5 are a repeated refrain:

May the nations praise you, O God.
Yes, may all the nations praise you.


== Uses ==


=== Judaism ===
In some congregations, Psalm 67 is recited before Maariv on Motzei Shabbat. It is also recited by some before Barukh she'amar and after counting the Omer.


=== Catholic Church ===
Saint Benedict of Nursia selected this psalm as the first psalm of the solemn office at the Sunday lauds. (Rule of St. Benedict, chapter XII). In a certain number of abbeys which maintain tradition, this Sunday service always begins with it. Saint Benedict also asked to perform this psalm during the lauds of the week (chapter XIII). However, other psalms later replaced Psalm 66 (67), with the exception of Sunday, so that all 150 psalms are read weekly.
It is one of the four invitatory prayers of the daily office, and is recited at the vespers of Wednesday of the second week, 8 and at the lauds of the Tuesday of the third week of the four weekly cycle of liturgical prayers.
It is read or sung at several Masses throughout the year because of its theme of the universal grace of God: on the Friday of the third week of Advent, and in the octave of the nativity of Mary. It is also found on the 20th Sunday of the year A (the first of the three years of the cycle of readings intended to ensure that "a more representative portion of sacred Scripture should be read to the people over a prescribed number of years"), the 6th Sunday of Easter in year C and the Wednesday of the 4th week of Easter.


=== Coptic Orthodox Church ===
In the Agpeya, the Coptic Church's book of hours, this psalm is prayed in the offices of Prime and Sext. It is also in the prayer of the Veil, which is generally prayed only by monks.


=== Anglican Church ===
In the Church of England's Book of Common Prayer, this psalm is appointed to be read on the evening of the 12th day of the month, and it may be recited as a canticle in the Anglican liturgy of Evening Prayer according to the Book of Common Prayer as an alternative to the Nunc dimittis, when it is referred to by its incipit as the Deus misereatur, also A Song of God's Blessing.


=== Lutheran churches ===
Martin Luther paraphrased the psalm in the hymn "Es woll uns Gott genädig sein", used particularly in Lutheran churches. In earlier hymnbooks this was set to the old chorale tune "Es wolle Gott uns gnädig sein", but the new Lutheran Service Book also provides a newer tune, "Elvet Banks".


== Musical settings ==
One English hymn paraphrase of this psalm is "God of mercy, God of grace" by Henry Francis Lyte, generally sung to the tune "Heathlands" by Henry Smart. Musical settings of Psalm 67 were composed by Thomas Tallis, Samuel Adler, Charles Ives, Alan Hovhaness, and Ēriks Ešenvalds.
Heinrich Schütz set Psalm 67 in a metred version in German, "Es woll uns Gott genädig sein", SWV 164, as part of the Becker Psalter, first published in 1628.


== Text ==
The following table shows the Hebrew text of the Psalm with vowels, alongside the Koine Greek text in the Septuagint and the English translation from the King James Version. Note that the meaning can slightly differ between these versions, as the Septuagint and the Masoretic Text come from different textual traditions. In the Septuagint, this psalm is numbered Psalm 66.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== External links ==

Pieces with text from Psalm 67: Scores at the International Music Score Library Project
Psalm 67: Free scores at the Choral Public Domain Library (ChoralWiki)
Psalm 67 in Hebrew and English - Mechon-mamre
Text of Psalm 67 according to the 1928 Psalter
Psalm 67 – A Missionary Psalm text and detailed commentary, enduringword.com
For the leader; with stringed instruments. A psalm; a song. / May God be gracious to us and  bless us; / may his face shine upon us text and footnotes, usccb.org United States Conference of Catholic Bishops
Psalm 67:1 introduction and text, biblestudytools.com
Psalm 67 / God be gracious to us and bless us / and make his face to shine upon us Church of England
Psalm 67 at biblegateway.com
Calvin's Commentaries, Vol. 10: Psalms, Part III, tr. by John King, (1847-50) / Psalm 67 sacred-texts.com
Charles H. Spurgeon: Psalm 67 detailed commentary, archive.spurgeon.org

Mugen Factory (夢現ファクトリー, Waking Dream Factory) is the second album from the Japanese duo Rythem. It was released on May 24, 2006 under Sony Music Entertainment Japan. The album contains songs from their 6th up to 10th single.
The item's stock number is AICL-1746.


== Track listing ==
"ピカソの休日" (Picasso no Kyuujitsu)
"三日月ラプソディー" (Mikazuki Rhapsody)
"ホウキ雲" (Houki Gumo)
"ココロビーダマ" (Kokoro Bīdama)
"名を持つ人へ" (Na wo Motsu Hito e)
"Song for you"
"月のウサギ" (Tsuki no Usagi)
"キセキ" (Kiseki)
"願い" (Negai)
"車輪の下" (Sharin no Shita)
"フラミンゴ" (Flamingo)
"気球が虹を越えた日" (Kikyuu ga Niji wo Koeta Hi)
"Dear Friend"
"20粒のココロ" (20 Tsubu no Kokoro)

Yevgeny Anatolyevich Dadonov (Russian: Евгений Анатольевич Дадонов; born 12 March 1989) is a Russian professional ice hockey player who is a winger and current unrestricted free agent. He most recently played for the New Jersey Devils of the National Hockey League (NHL). He previously played in two stints for the Florida Panthers where he was originally selected 71st overall in the 2007 NHL entry draft, as well as the Ottawa Senators, Vegas Golden Knights, Montreal Canadiens and Dallas Stars.


== Playing career ==
Dadonov played for Traktor Chelyabinsk in the Russian Super League and Kontinental Hockey League (KHL). He was drafted 71st overall by the Florida Panthers of the National Hockey League (NHL) in the 2007 NHL entry draft and joined the team in 2009, playing a season with their American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate, the Rochester Americans.


=== North America ===
Dadonov was recalled by the Panthers and made his NHL debut on 6 April 2010 in a 5–2 loss to the Ottawa Senators, though the coach, Peter DeBoer praised his play after the game. He played four games with the Panthers during the 2009–10 season. Returning to Rochester the following season, he was recalled on 7 December 2010 to replace an injured Radek Dvořák. Dadonov scored his first NHL goal on 15 December 2010 against Cam Ward of the Carolina Hurricanes. In January 2011 Dadonov was selected to participate in the 2011 NHL All-Star Game SuperSkills Competition as one of 12 rookies.

In the 2011–12 season, the last year of his entry-level contract, after failing to gain a regular position into the Panthers line-up on 18 January 2012, Dadonov was traded, along with A.J. Jenks, by the Panthers to the Carolina Hurricanes in exchange for Jonathan Matsumoto and Mattias Lindstrom. He played 15 games with the Panthers that year, tallying two goals and three points and nine points in 20 games with the Panthers AHL affiliate, the San Antonio Rampage. Dadonov was assigned to the Hurricanes' affiliate, the Charlotte Checkers where he played the remainder of the season out.


=== Donbass ===
On 7 July 2012, Dadonov left the Hurricanes and North America to return to the KHL with Donbass. In December 2013 he signed a three-year extension with the club, and expressed interest in acquiring Ukrainian citizenship. With Donbass, Dadonov won the 2012–13 IIHF Continental Cup, and became the second scoring leader of the tournament. In the 2013–14 KHL season Dadonov helped Donbass reach the Conference Semifinals.


=== SKA Saint Petersburg ===
With HC Donbass suspending operations due to the outbreak of War in Donbass Dadonov signed a multi-year contract with KHL club SKA Saint Petersburg on 11 June 2014. In 2015, Dadonov played a vital role in helping SKA Saint Petersburg to win the Gagarin Cup for the first time. When team captain Ilya Kovalchuk was named Most Valuable Player of the season, he refused to accept it and instead passed the award on to Dadonov. In a later interview, Kovalchuk said that he felt Dadonov deserved the award more. At the end of the season, the KHL named Dadonov one of the two winners of the "Gentleman on Ice" award for his fair play and sportsmanship.


=== Return to Florida Panthers ===
Having evolved and matured his game over the previous five seasons spent in the KHL, Dadonov opted to pursue a return for a second attempt in the NHL. With his rights having expired from the Hurricanes, Dadonov returned to his original club, the Florida Panthers, in agreeing to a three-year, $12 million contract on 1 July 2017. In his final year with the Panthers, he scored 25 goals and 47 points in 69 games but had a disappointing record in the 2020 Stanley Cup playoffs, only registering one point as the Panthers were bounced by the New York Islanders in the first round.


=== Ottawa Senators ===
After three productive seasons with the Panthers, Dadonov left the club as an unrestricted free agent, to sign a three-year, $15 million contract with the Ottawa Senators on 15 October 2020. Dadonov saw his production drop in his first season after signing with the Senators compared to his time in Florida, putting up 20 points in 55 games, under half a point-per-game average. He only spent the 2020–21 season with the Senators before being traded to the Vegas Golden Knights during the subsequent off-season.


=== Vegas Golden Knights ===
After a disappointing first season with the Senators, Dadonov was traded to the Vegas Golden Knights in exchange for Nick Holden and a 2022 third-round draft pick on 28 July 2021. He was acquired by the Golden Knights to provide depth scoring and as a backup should the Golden Knights need to move larger contracts to get under the salary cap.
During the 2021–22 season, the Golden Knights attempted to trade both Dadonov and a conditional second-round pick to the Anaheim Ducks in exchange for John Moore and Ryan Kesler at the NHL trade deadline on 21 March 2022, in order to alleviate salary cap constraints caused by the acquisition of star forward Jack Eichel from the Buffalo Sabres. The deal immediately came into question due to a no-trade clause in Dadonov's contract. A report the same day stated the Golden Knights claimed the Senators did not inform them of the no-trade clause, and the NHL's central registry processed the trade before Dadonov disputed its validity. On 23 March, the trade was officially voided. The controversy led to the NHL announcing plans to change how no-trade clauses were handled in the future.
Dadonov's profile was elevated as a result of the events, and days after the resolution he scored the overtime-winning goal in a 26 March game against the Chicago Blackhawks, receiving strong applause from the home crowd. The final two months of the season were Dadonov's strongest, and he finished with 20 goals and 23 assists. It was widely expected, however, that the Golden Knights would again attempt to trade Dadonov in the offseason.


=== Montreal Canadiens and Dallas Stars ===
Following the Golden Knights missing the postseason for the first time in franchise history, Dadonov was traded to the Montreal Canadiens in exchange for Shea Weber on 16 June 2022. In the final year of his contract, Dadonov began the 2022–23 season in a top-six offensive role. However, he was unable to replicate his previous offensive totals. In 50 regular season games, he registered only 4 goals and 18 points.
On 26 February 2023, Dadonov was traded by the Canadiens, with half his salary retained, to the Dallas Stars in exchange for fellow struggling Russian, Denis Gurianov. Dadonov scored in his debut with the Stars, a 5–4 loss to the Vancouver Canucks. He finished the season with Dallas appearing in 23 games scoring 3 goals and 15 points. In the 2023 Stanley Cup Playoffs, Dadonov elevated his play, registering 10 points in 16 games and helping Dallas get all the way to the Western Conference Finals before being eliminated by the eventual Stanley Cup champions, Vegas Golden Knights.
On 27 June 2023, Dadonov signed a two-year contract extension with the Stars worth $4.5 million. He played in 50 games with Dallas during the 2023–24 season, scoring 12 goals and 23 points before suffering a serious fracture against the Montreal Canadiens on 10 February that kept him out for 29 games. He played in 19 games in the 2024 Stanley Cup playoffs, scoring three goals and seven points.


=== New Jersey Devils ===
Following three seasons with the Stars, Dadonov left as a free agent and extended his NHL career with the New Jersey Devils, signing a one-year, $1 million contract on 1 July 2025.


== Career statistics ==


=== Regular season and playoffs ===


=== International ===


== Awards and honours ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or ESPN.com, or Eurohockey.com, or Hockey-Reference.com, or The Internet Hockey Database
Evgeny Dadonov at RussianProspects.com

Edward C. Sandoval (January 28, 1947 – March 3, 2021) was an American politician and a Democratic member of the New Mexico House of Representatives representing District 17 from January 1983 through January 2015. He did not seek reelection in 2014.


== Biography ==
Sandoval attended the University of New Mexico.
He died on March 3, 2021, at age 74, following a long battle with COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in New Mexico.


== Elections ==
2012 Sandoval was unopposed for the June 5, 2012 Democratic Primary, winning with 2,221 votes and won the November 6, 2012 General election with 7,816 votes (66.6%) against Republican nominee Robert Cain.
1982 Sandoval was first elected to the New Mexico Legislature in the November 2, 1982 General election and was re-elected in the general elections of November 6, 1984, November 4, 1986, and November 8, 1988.
1990 Sandoval was unopposed for both the June 5, 1990 Democratic Primary, winning with 1,814 votes and the November 6, 1990 General election, winning with 3,677 votes.
1992 Sandoval was challenged in the June 2, 1992 Democratic Primary, winning with 1,483 votes (56.1%) and won the November 3, 1992 General election with 4,650 votes (66.7%) against Republican nominee Bernardo Gallegos.
1994 Sandoval was unopposed for both the June 7, 1994 Democratic Primary, winning with 2,138 votes and the November 8, 1994 General election, winning with 4,288 votes.
1996 Sandoval was unopposed for both the June 4, 1996 Democratic Primary, winning with 1,853 votes and the November 5, 1996 General election.
1998 Sandoval was unopposed for both the June 2, 1998 Democratic Primary, winning with 1,610 votes and the November 3, 1998 General election, winning with 4,404 votes.
2000 Sandoval was unopposed for the 2000 Democratic Primary, winning with 1,570 votes and won the November 7, 2000 General election with 4,721 votes (69.1%) against Republican nominee Glenn Garcia.
2002 Sandoval was unopposed for both the 2002 Democratic Primary, winning with 2,498 votes and the November 5, 2002 General election, winning with 6,237 votes.
2004 Sandoval was unopposed for both the June 1, 2004 Democratic Primary, winning with 1,959 votes and the November 2, 2004 General election, winning with 9,714 votes.
2006 Sandoval was unopposed for both the June 6, 2006 Democratic Primary, winning with 1,986 votes and the November 7, 2006 General election, winning with 7,965 votes.
2008 Sandoval was unopposed for the June 8, 2008 Democratic Primary, winning with 2,923 votes and won the November 4, 2008 General election with 9,637 votes (66.6%) against Republican nominee Ronald Toya.
2010 Sandoval was unopposed for both the June 1, 2010 Democratic Primary, winning with 2,251 votes and the November 2, 2010 General election, winning with 7,459 votes.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official page at the New Mexico Legislature

Profile at Vote Smart
Edward Sandoval at Ballotpedia
Edward C. Sandoval at OpenSecrets

Tyreece Obiora Onyeka (born 1 September  2001) is an English professional footballer who plays as a forward for Northern Premier League Premier Division club Leek Town. He formerly played for EFL League One club Crewe Alexandra.


== Career ==
A graduate of Crewe Alexandra's Academy, he signed a professional contract in 2020. In October 2021, he joined the Northern Premier League Premier Division side Matlock Town on a month-long loan before having a similar spell at Stalybridge Celtic in December that year.
Upon returning to Crewe, he made his debut for the club in their 0–0 home draw against Shrewsbury Town in League One on 15 January 2022, coming on as an 85th minute substitute for Chris Long. Following relegation to League Two, Onyeka was released by Crewe at the end of the 2021–22 season.


== Career statistics ==
As of 17 January 2022.


== References ==

Caroline Edwards (born 1991) is an American officer of the United States Capitol Police who is known for defending the Capitol building and its occupants during the January 6 attack. She was the first Capitol Police officer to be injured by the mob of rioters on the day of the attack.
Edwards was stationed on the West front of the Capitol at the start of the attack. She signaled on the Capitol Police radio that her first responder unit needed help, and alerted several other officers around the Capitol that the police were being overrun by the mob. She was then pushed over with a bike rack by Ryan Samsel, and hit her head on a handrail, which cracked her skull and gave her a concussion, making her lose consciousness; she awoke minutes later and continued her defense, engaging in hand-to-hand combat for hours. Her concussion caused permanent traumatic brain injury effects. She testified to the House Select Committee investigating the attack in 2022 and was awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal by U.S. president Joe Biden in 2023.


== Early life ==
Caroline Edwards was born in 1991. She is the granddaughter of a United States Marine who fought in the Korean War. Edwards is from Atlanta, and attended the University of Georgia Grady College of Journalism and Mass Communication. She graduated cum laude with a bachelor's degree in public relations.


== Career ==
Edwards joined the United States Capitol Police, which protects the Capitol building in Washington D.C., in 2017. She was trained by officer Harry Dunn. She serves on the officers union board. By 2021, she had worked on "hundreds of civil disturbances" to the Capitol.


=== January 6 Capitol attack ===

On January 6, 2021, supporters of then-U.S. president Donald Trump stormed the Capitol in an attempted insurrection, hoping to overturn Congress' certification of Electoral College votes in the 2020 presidential election. The certification would confirm Trump's opponent, Joe Biden, to be the next President. The attack began around 1 p.m., when Trump finished speaking at Washington D.C.'s Ellipse park, and his supporters who were there started marching east towards the Capitol. This included members of the Proud Boys militia group. Capitol Police leaders knew of a threat to the Capitol but did not tell the stationed officers. At the time of the attack, Edwards was 31 and a private first class officer.
That day, Edwards had been stationed at the Peace Circle on the West front of the Capitol grounds, backed by four other officers in the first responder unit. Her group, like other Capitol Police officers, had been trained for riots, but her group was not fitted with riot gear that day. A nearby school bus containing riot gear was available but was locked, and officers were unsuccessful at opening it. Her group was also not behind a "universal fence" surrounding the building; instead, she was stationed behind a series of bike racks in front of a series of stone steps. 

Edwards was the first Capitol Police officer to be injured by the incoming mob once they reached the Capitol grounds. At the beginning of the attack, a group of Arizona Proud Boys approached the Peace Circle barricade. Edwards called for help on the radio, which was heard by other officers around the building and was a sign that the mob was overrunning the police. She attempted to delay their approach towards the Capitol while backup was arriving. Proud Boys leader Joseph Biggs encouraged Ryan Samsel to approach the bike rack by which Edwards was posted. Samsel has denied this conversation happened. Samsel then pushed the bike rack over, which hit her on the head. This made her fall, and while falling, her chin hit the handrail of the steps behind her, causing a concussion which made her lose consciousness. She then hit the back of her head on one of the steps behind her, cracking it. The concussion gave her a traumatic brain injury. The mob then began attacking the other officers, who were pushed back. Edwards awoke minutes later while she was being picked up by Samsel, and then she shook him off and began treating the injured on the scene, such as decontaminating those who were pepper-sprayed. She then continued the defense, rushing to support the officers who had been pushed back and were holding a line in the Capitol's lower West Terrace. She felt confused and dizzy while doing it. She then engaged with the mob in hand-to-hand combat for hours. While fighting, she was teargassed and pepper-sprayed in her eyes. She later said that in her training she was taught to control riots but not to do hand-to-hand combat. She later testified to Congress:
“I couldn’t believe my eyes: There were officers on the ground. They were bleeding. They were throwing up. I saw friends with blood all over their faces. I was slipping in people’s blood. I was catching people as they fell. It was carnage. It was chaos. I can’t even describe what I saw. Never in my wildest dreams did I think that as a police officer, as a law enforcement officer, I would find myself in the middle of a battle.”The Capitol attack went on for four hours after Ryan Samsel's first assault. Edwards stopped many rioters from entering the building; at one point, she spotted a rioter heading towards an evacuation route for the Capitol's occupants, and handcuffed him, taking him to a prisoner processing section of the Capitol Police headquarters building. She then blacked out inside the building and was taken by ambulance to a hospital in Silver Spring, Maryland, because the hospitals in Washington D.C. were full. The hospital gave her a CT scan and put her in a neck collar.


==== Aftermath ====
Edwards temporarily left the force due to her injuries. For months after the attack, Edwards was bedridden, and had episodes of vertigo, migraines, and fainting likely caused by the traumatic brain injury. In February 2021, speaking as a member of the officers union, Edwards became one of the first Capitol Police officers to publicly criticize her department's lack of preparation for the attack. In May 2021, Edwards returned to the Capitol Police force as a peer counselor for mental health.
On June 9, 2022, Edwards testified to the U.S. House Select Committee on the January 6 Attack regarding her experiences during the attack. Her testimony was paired with footage of the attacks not seen before in public, including of her being knocked unconscious. As she was one of the first witnesses to testify in the committee's public hearings, The Guardian wrote: "[Her testimony] showed viewers at home that the attack on the Capitol in Washington DC was not an accident, but rather an intentional effort to inflict violence."
On January 6, 2023, Edwards and 13 other officers (3 of them posthumous) were awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal by then-president Joe Biden for their work in protecting the Capitol. The medal recognizes "citizens of the United States of America who have performed exemplary deeds of service for their country, or their fellow citizens". On April 3, 2023, she was awarded the 2023 Dean's Medal for Leadership Excellence from the University of Georgia Grady College for her "defense of the heart of American democracy". As of October 2023, Edwards said she still has migraines from her brain injury and has to take monthly medication for it.


===== Ryan Samsel legal issues =====
Samsel was arrested in January 2021. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) discovered his identity by putting a picture of his face on January 6 into facial recognition software and receiving a match on his girlfriend's Instagram page. In October 2023, Samsel went on trial, charged with assault on police with and without a dangerous weapon (a felony), obstruction of an official proceeding (a felony), and an act of physical violence in the Capitol grounds or buildings (a misdemeanor). He had pled not guilty, and Edwards testified against him and four other co-defendants during the trial. Prosecutors argued that he was the catalyst for the rioting. Samsel's lawyer, Stanley Woodward Jr., argued that "Those barricades didn’t fall because of anything Mr. Samsel did or was going to do" ... "They were going to fall… It’s not even remotely possible to pin the events of Jan. 6 on Mr. Samsel." He also said that "bike racks are not a dangerous weapon". 
The trial ended in December 2023, and on February 2, 2024, Samsel was convicted of all of the charges. On January 20, 2025, Donald Trump, now serving a second term as president, pardoned Samsel and around 1,500 other people charged with crimes connected to the January 6 attack. Samsel was released from custody the following day. Samsel had served nearly four years in jail by the time he had been pardoned.


== References ==

Pelton Peak is a 7,133-foot (2,174-metre) mountain summit located in Chelan County of Washington state. It is part of the North Cascades, a subset of the Cascade Range. Pelton Peak is situated 1.8 miles (2.9 km) southeast of Cascade Pass in North Cascades National Park near the northern end of the Ptarmigan Traverse. The nearest higher peak is Magic Mountain, 0.4 miles (0.64 km) to the southwest. The Yawning Glacier rests on its western flank between these two peaks. Surface runoff from the mountain drains into tributaries of the Stehekin River. The mountain's name comes from the Pelton wheel which was used in early mining times, and several mines were located in the vicinity of Pelton Basin, Horseshoe Basin, and Boston Basin.


== Climate ==
Pelton Peak is located in the marine west coast climate zone of western North America. Weather fronts originating in the Pacific Ocean travel northeast toward the Cascade Mountains. As fronts approach the North Cascades, they are forced upward by the peaks (orographic lift), causing them to drop their moisture in the form of rain or snowfall onto the Cascades.As a result, the west side of the North Cascades experiences high precipitation, especially during the winter months in the form of snowfall. Because of maritime influence, snow tends to be wet and heavy, resulting in high avalanche danger. During winter months, weather is usually cloudy, but, due to high pressure systems over the Pacific Ocean that intensify during summer months, there is often little or no cloud cover during the summer.


== Geology ==
The North Cascades features some of the most rugged topography in the Cascade Range with craggy peaks and ridges, deep glacial valleys, and granite spires. Geological events occurring many years ago created the diverse topography and drastic elevation changes over the Cascade Range leading to the various climate differences. These climate differences lead to vegetation variety defining the ecoregions in this area.
The history of the formation of the Cascade Mountains dates back millions of years ago to the late Eocene Epoch. With the North American Plate overriding the Pacific Plate, episodes of volcanic igneous activity persisted.  In addition, small fragments of the oceanic and continental lithosphere called terranes created the North Cascades about 50 million years ago.
During the Pleistocene period dating back over two million years ago, glaciation advancing and retreating repeatedly scoured the landscape leaving deposits of rock debris. The U-shaped cross section of the river valleys is a result of recent glaciation. Uplift and faulting in combination with glaciation have been the dominant processes which have created the tall peaks and deep valleys of the North Cascades area.


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
Geography of Washington (state)
Geology of the Pacific Northwest
 Mountains portal


== References ==


== External links ==
North Cascades National Park National Park Service
Pelton Peak weather: Mountain Forecast
Pelton Peak photo: Flickr

Cheadle may refer to:

Cheadle, Alberta, Canada
Cheadle, Greater Manchester, England
Cheadle (UK Parliament constituency), a constituency composed of the town and environs of Cheadle, Greater Manchester, England
Cheadle, Staffordshire, England
Cheadle Yorkshire, a fictional character in the manga series Hunter × Hunter


== People with the surname ==
Alfred S. Cheadle (1853–1923), Australian wool broker
Ashley Cheadle (born 1987), Australian surfer, model and actress
Don Cheadle (born 1964), American actor
Edwin K. Cheadle (c. 1895–1981), Justice of the Montana Supreme Court
Frank Cheadle (1885–1916), Australian rugby footballer
Richard Cheadle (born 1950), former Royal Navy officer and Controller of the Navy
Vernon Cheadle (1910–1995), American plant scientist
Walter Butler Cheadle (1836–1910), English paediatrician


== See also ==
Cheadle Heath, part of Stockport, Greater Manchester, England
Cheadle Hulme, part of Stockport, Greater Manchester, England

Edward Raymond Hubbard (20 June 1949 – 19 October 2019), nicknamed "Hurricane Hubbard", was a motorcycle speedway rider in the National League and the British League.
Hubbard was born in Lydden, England.


== Career ==
Hubbard was a popular sportsman who rode chiefly for the Canterbury Crusaders and the Rye House Rockets with loans out to other clubs, most notably the Hackney Hawks.
He was part of the Canterbury Crusaders team that won the league title during the 1970 British League Division Two season.
He made two appearances at the British League Division Two Riders Championship, finishing in the top three both times. In the 1974 Championship he only lost the title after a run-off, when he finished on 13 points with Carl Glover. In the 1976 Championship he finished third behind Joe Owen.
He left Rye House in 1979 as doubling up rides with Hackney was too demanding, seeing as he was also involved in the family business. Tempted back to racing by the Canterbury Crusaders in 1980, he once again thought of full retirement at the end of the season, but his old promoter, Len Silver, persuaded him to ride for Hackney for one more season. However, the conflict with his business and the risk of injury that might damage his livelihood brought him to finally hang up his leathers at the age of 32. He had a brief spell as team manager of the Iwade-based Sittingbourne Crusaders.


== After speedway ==
The family business in fruit and veg expanded to include wholesale potato supplies to fish-and-chip shops in Kent. He was married to Jeannette; they had three children—Jason, Stuart, and Nicola—and four grandchildren. They took on a 47-acre (19 ha) farm as a business-cum-hobby. He died of liver cancer, aged 70, in 2019.


== References ==


== External links ==
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EFGfesFl10o (Les Rumsey on Ted Hubbard)

Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a biopharmaceutical company based in Coral Gables, Florida, United States. The company develops medicines for rare diseases, including the phosphate salt of amifampridine for the treatment of Lambert–Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS). The drug is referred to under the trade name Firdapse, which was approved by the FDA for approved use in children 6 years and older with LEMS in addition to the prior approval for use in adults with LEMS on November 28, 2018. Firdapse commercially launched in January 2019.


== History ==
Catalyst was founded in 2002, and completed an IPO in 2006. It focused primarily on developing therapies to prevent addiction until 2012.
In 2009, Catalyst in-licensed worldwide rights to a family of GABA inhibitors including CPP-115 from Northwestern University. In 2012, it in-licensed patents covering the use of amifampridine phosphate to treat LEMS for the North American market from BioMarin.
In 2012, while BioMarin had a Phase III trial ongoing in the US, it licensed the US rights to 3,4-DAPP, including the orphan designation and the ongoing trial, to Catalyst Pharmaceuticals.
In August 2013, analysts anticipated that FDA approval would be granted to Catalyst in LEMS by 2015. The drug is used to treat Lambert–Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), which is a rare neuromuscular disorder characterized by muscle weakness of the limbs, affecting about 3.4 per million people.
In December 2015, Catalyst submitted its new drug application to the FDA, and in February 2016 the FDA refused to accept it, on the basis that it wasn't complete. In April 2016 the FDA told Catalyst it would have to gather further data. In March 2018 the company re-submitted its NDA. The FDA approved amifampridine for the treatment of adults with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome on November 29, 2018.
In 2018, Catalyst terminated its license for CPP-115 with Northwestern and stopped the development program for that compound.
As of 2022, the company offered Catalyst Pathways, a program that provides financial aid, insurance navigation, bridge medicine, and Patient Access Liaisons.
In January 2023, Catalyst acquired the US rights for the epilepsy drug FYCOMPA (perampanel). Fycoma had FDA approvals in 2016 with an oral suspension formulation and in 2017 for its use as a monotherapy.
In October 2023, Patrick J. McEnany retired as CEO. He now serves as Chairman. Richard J. Daly was appointed as CEO on Jan 1, 2024.
In March 2024, Catalyst commercially launched AGAMREE (vamorolone) oral suspension for the treatment of Duchenne muscular dystrophy in patients aged two years and older. Catalyst had acquired the North American rights in July 2023. It had previously been approved by the FDA in October 2023.
In May 2024, the FDA approved a supplemental New Drug Application increasing the indicated maximum daily dose of Firdapse (amifampridine) for adults and pediatric patients weighing more than 45 kg from 80 mg to 100 mg.


== Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome ==
Tentative evidence supports 3,4-diaminopyridine treatment at least for a few weeks, with the goal to improve neuromuscular transmission. The 3,4-diaminopyridine base or the water-soluble 3,4-diaminopyridine phosphate may be used. Both 3,4-diaminopyridine formulations stall the repolarization of nerve terminals after a discharge, allowing more calcium to gather in the terminal.


== Duchenne muscular dystrophy ==
Data from four clinical trials support vamorolone therapy's safety and efficacy profile in DMD. One study compared 48 weeks of treatment Agamree to prednisone, a corticosteroid, in 121 boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Results demonstrated that AGAMREE and prednisone were both effective at preserving muscle function, but children given AGAMREE had fewer adverse reactions related to bone health, growth, and behavior.


== Amifampridine ==
The development of amifampridine and its phosphate has brought attention to orphan drug policies that grant market exclusivity as an incentive for companies to develop therapies for conditions that affect small numbers of people.
Amifampridine, also called 3,4-DAP, was discovered in Scotland in the 1970s, and doctors in Sweden first showed its use in LEMS in the 1980s.


== Litigation and Reception ==
In December 2015 a group of neuromuscular doctors published an editorial in the journal, Muscle & Nerve, with concerns about the potential for the price to be increased should Catalyst obtain FDA approval, and stating that 3,4-DAPP represented no real innovation and didn't deserve exclusivity under the Orphan Drug Act. Catalyst responded to this editorial with a response in 2016 that explained they were conducting a full range of clinical and non-clinical studies necessary to obtain approval in order to specifically address the unmet need among the estimated 1500-3000 LEMs patients since about 200 were receiving the product through compassionate use – and that this is exactly what the Orphan Drug Act was intended to do. Prior to the FDA approval, patients were able to get an investigational  version of amifampridine for free through compassionate use programs in accordance with FDA Rules and Guidelines.
On January 28, 2022, in Catalyst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. v. Becerra, the Eleventh Circuit upheld orphan exclusivity for Catalyst Pharmaceuticals and its drug Firdapse. With this decision, the Eleventh Circuit rejected the FDA's interpretation of orphan exclusivity and concluded that the agency had improperly approved a competitor product from Jacobus Pharmaceutical Co.
On February 4, 2019, Bernie Sanders, United States Senator from Vermont, publicly sent a letter to Catalyst asking why they raised the price of their drug Firdapse to an annual cost of $375,000, considering Firdapse was previously free of charge through an FDA compassionate use program. Catalyst responded by saying, "The approval of Firdapse by the FDA means that all LEMS patients in the United States now have access to this much-needed medication". Sanders questioned the financial decision regarding the negative impact, specifically asking about how many patients would suffer or die, for patients who may no longer be able to afford the drug. The drug is used to treat Lambert–Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS), which is a rare neuromuscular disorder.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

The Medal of Valor (Hebrew: עיטור הגבורה,Hebrew pronunciation: [(ʔ)iˈtuʁ (h)agvuˈʁa] Itur HaGvura) is the highest Israeli military decoration.
The medal was established in 1970 by the Knesset in an act of law as a replacement for the Hero of Israel military decoration that was awarded during the 1947-48 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine and the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. Awards of the medal were also made for actions prior to 1970, and all recipients of the Hero of Israel automatically received the Medal of Valor as well.
Recipients of the medal receive several privileges such as a tax reduction and invitations to official state ceremonies.
To this day, 40 medals have been awarded: 12 for actions in the War of Independence (Hero of Israel recipients automatically received the Medal of Valor), four for the Sinai War, 12 for the Six-Day War, one for the War of Attrition, eight for the Yom Kippur War, and three others for actions during specific operations.


== Design ==
The medal was designed by Dan Reisinger in the shape of a Star of David.
A sword and olive branch decorate the left side, while the reverse is plain. The medal is attached to a yellow ribbon, a reference to the yellow star that Jews were forced to wear during the Holocaust. Two time recipients of the medal attach a small medal-shaped clasp to the ribbon.
The medal is minted by the Israel Government Coins and Medals Corporation. It is made of 25 gram silver/935 and the clasp is chrome plated.


== Recipients ==


== References ==

John D. Clarke, Gallantry Medals & Awards of the World, p. 108

In mathematics, there is in mathematical analysis a class of Sobolev inequalities, relating norms including those of Sobolev spaces. These are used to prove the Sobolev embedding theorem, giving inclusions between certain Sobolev spaces, and the Rellich–Kondrachov theorem showing that under slightly stronger conditions some Sobolev spaces are compactly embedded in others. They are named after Sergei Lvovich Sobolev.


== Sobolev embedding theorem ==

Let W k,p(Rn) denote the Sobolev space consisting of all real-valued functions on Rn whose weak derivatives up to order k are functions in Lp. Here k is a non-negative integer and 1 ≤ p < ∞. The first part of the Sobolev embedding theorem states that if k > ℓ, p < n and 1 ≤ p < q < ∞ are two real numbers such that

  
    
      
        
          
            1
            p
          
        
        −
        
          
            k
            n
          
        
        =
        
          
            1
            q
          
        
        −
        
          
            ℓ
            n
          
        
        ,
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{p}}-{\frac {k}{n}}={\frac {1}{q}}-{\frac {\ell }{n}},}
  

(given 
  
    
      
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle n}
  
, 
  
    
      
        p
      
    
    {\displaystyle p}
  
, 
  
    
      
        k
      
    
    {\displaystyle k}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        ℓ
      
    
    {\displaystyle \ell }
  
 this is satisfied for some 
  
    
      
        q
        ∈
        [
        1
        ,
        ∞
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle q\in [1,\infty )}
  
 provided 
  
    
      
        (
        k
        −
        ℓ
        )
        p
        <
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle (k-\ell )p<n}
  
),
then

  
    
      
        
          W
          
            k
            ,
            p
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
        ⊆
        
          W
          
            ℓ
            ,
            q
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{k,p}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})\subseteq W^{\ell ,q}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  

and the embedding is continuous: for every 
  
    
      
        f
        ∈
        
          W
          
            k
            ,
            p
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle f\in W^{k,p}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  
, one has 

  
    
      
        f
        ∈
        
          W
          
            l
            ,
            q
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle f\in W^{l,q}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  
, and 

  
    
      
        
          
            (
          
        
        
          ∫
          
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
          
        
        |
        
          ∇
          
            ℓ
          
        
        f
        
          |
          
            q
          
        
        
          
            
              )
            
          
          
            
              1
              q
            
          
        
        ≤
        C
        
          
            (
          
        
        
          ∫
          
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
          
        
        |
        
          ∇
          
            k
          
        
        f
        
          |
          
            p
          
        
        
          
            
              )
            
          
          
            
              1
              p
            
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\biggl (}\int _{\mathbf {R} ^{n}}\vert \nabla ^{\ell }f\vert ^{q}{\biggr )}^{\frac {1}{q}}\leq C{\biggl (}\int _{\mathbf {R} ^{n}}\vert \nabla ^{k}f\vert ^{p}{\biggr )}^{\frac {1}{p}}.}
  

In the special case of k = 1 and ℓ = 0, Sobolev embedding gives

  
    
      
        
          W
          
            1
            ,
            p
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
        ⊆
        
          L
          
            
              p
              
                ∗
              
            
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{1,p}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})\subseteq L^{p^{*}}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  

where p∗ is the Sobolev conjugate of p, given by

  
    
      
        
          
            1
            
              p
              
                ∗
              
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            1
            p
          
        
        −
        
          
            1
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{p^{*}}}={\frac {1}{p}}-{\frac {1}{n}}}
  

and for every 
  
    
      
        f
        ∈
        
          W
          
            1
            ,
            p
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle f\in W^{1,p}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  
, one has 

  
    
      
        f
        ∈
        
          L
          
            
              p
              
                ∗
              
            
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle f\in L^{p^{*}}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  
 and 

  
    
      
        
          
            (
          
        
        
          ∫
          
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
          
        
        |
        f
        
          |
          
            
              p
              
                ∗
              
            
          
        
        
          
            
              )
            
          
          
            
              1
              
                p
                
                  ∗
                
              
            
          
        
        ≤
        C
        
          
            (
          
        
        
          ∫
          
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
          
        
        |
        ∇
        f
        
          |
          
            p
          
        
        
          
            
              )
            
          
          
            
              1
              p
            
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\biggl (}\int _{\mathbf {R} ^{n}}\vert f\vert ^{p^{*}}{\biggr )}^{\frac {1}{p^{*}}}\leq C{\biggl (}\int _{\mathbf {R} ^{n}}\vert \nabla f\vert ^{p}{\biggr )}^{\frac {1}{p}}.}
  

This special case of the Sobolev embedding is a direct consequence of the Gagliardo–Nirenberg–Sobolev inequality. The result should be interpreted as saying that if a function 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 in 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  
 has one derivative in 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}}
  
, then 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 itself has improved local behavior, meaning that it belongs to the space 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            
              p
              
                ∗
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p^{*}}}
  
 where 
  
    
      
        
          p
          
            ∗
          
        
        >
        p
      
    
    {\displaystyle p^{*}>p}
  
. (Note that 
  
    
      
        1
        
          /
        
        
          p
          
            ∗
          
        
        <
        1
        
          /
        
        p
      
    
    {\displaystyle 1/p^{*}<1/p}
  
, so that 
  
    
      
        
          p
          
            ∗
          
        
        >
        p
      
    
    {\displaystyle p^{*}>p}
  
.) Thus, any local singularities in 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 must be more mild than for a typical function in 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}}
  
.

The second part of the Sobolev embedding theorem applies to embeddings in Hölder spaces C r,α(Rn). If n < pk and

  
    
      
        
          
            1
            p
          
        
        −
        
          
            k
            n
          
        
        =
        −
        
          
            
              r
              +
              α
            
            n
          
        
        ,
        
          
             or, equivalently, 
          
        
        r
        +
        α
        =
        k
        −
        
          
            n
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{p}}-{\frac {k}{n}}=-{\frac {r+\alpha }{n}},{\mbox{ or, equivalently, }}r+\alpha =k-{\frac {n}{p}}}
  

with α ∈ (0, 1) then one has the embedding

  
    
      
        
          W
          
            k
            ,
            p
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
        ⊂
        
          C
          
            r
            ,
            α
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{k,p}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})\subset C^{r,\alpha }(\mathbf {R} ^{n}).}
  

In other words, for every 
  
    
      
        f
        ∈
        
          W
          
            k
            ,
            p
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle f\in W^{k,p}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        x
        ,
        y
        ∈
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle x,y\in \mathbf {R} ^{n}}
  
, one has 
  
    
      
        f
        ∈
        
          C
          
            r
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle f\in C^{r}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  
, in addition,

  
    
      
        |
        
          ∇
          
            r
          
        
        f
        (
        x
        )
        −
        
          ∇
          
            r
          
        
        f
        (
        y
        )
        |
        ≤
        C
        
          
            (
          
        
        
          ∫
          
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
          
        
        |
        
          ∇
          
            k
          
        
        f
        
          |
          
            p
          
        
        
          
            
              )
            
          
          
            
              1
              p
            
          
        
        |
        x
        −
        y
        
          |
          
            α
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle \vert \nabla ^{r}f(x)-\nabla ^{r}f(y)\vert \leq C{\biggl (}\int _{\mathbf {R} ^{n}}\vert \nabla ^{k}f\vert ^{p}{\biggr )}^{\frac {1}{p}}\vert x-y\vert ^{\alpha }.}
  

This part of the Sobolev embedding is a direct consequence of Morrey's inequality. Intuitively, this inclusion expresses the fact that the existence of sufficiently many weak derivatives implies some continuity of the classical derivatives. If 
  
    
      
        α
        =
        1
      
    
    {\displaystyle \alpha =1}
  
 then 
  
    
      
        
          W
          
            k
            ,
            p
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
        ⊂
        
          C
          
            r
            ,
            γ
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{k,p}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})\subset C^{r,\gamma }(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  
 for every 
  
    
      
        γ
        ∈
        (
        0
        ,
        1
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle \gamma \in (0,1)}
  
.
In particular, as long as 
  
    
      
        p
        k
        >
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle pk>n}
  
, the embedding criterion will hold with 
  
    
      
        r
        =
        0
      
    
    {\displaystyle r=0}
  
 and some positive value of 
  
    
      
        α
      
    
    {\displaystyle \alpha }
  
. That is, for a function 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 on 
  
    
      
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \mathbb {R} ^{n}}
  
, if 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 has 
  
    
      
        k
      
    
    {\displaystyle k}
  
 derivatives in 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        p
        k
        >
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle pk>n}
  
, then 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 will be continuous (and actually Hölder continuous with some positive exponent 
  
    
      
        α
      
    
    {\displaystyle \alpha }
  
).


=== Generalizations ===

The Sobolev embedding theorem holds for Sobolev spaces W k,p(M) on other suitable domains M. In particular (Aubin 1982, Chapter 2; Aubin 1976), both parts of the Sobolev embedding hold when

M is a bounded open set in Rn with Lipschitz boundary (or whose boundary satisfies the cone condition; Adams 1975, Theorem 5.4)
M is a compact Riemannian manifold
M is a compact Riemannian manifold with boundary and the boundary is Lipschitz (meaning that the boundary can be locally represented as a graph of a Lipschitz continuous function).
M is a complete Riemannian manifold with injectivity radius δ > 0 and bounded sectional curvature.
If M is a bounded open set in Rn with continuous boundary, then W 1,2(M) is compactly embedded in L2(M) (Nečas 2012, Section 1.1.5, Theorem 1.4).


=== Kondrachov embedding theorem ===

On a compact manifold M with C1 boundary, the Kondrachov embedding theorem states that if k > ℓ and
  
    
      
        
          
            1
            p
          
        
        −
        
          
            k
            n
          
        
        <
        
          
            1
            q
          
        
        −
        
          
            ℓ
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{p}}-{\frac {k}{n}}<{\frac {1}{q}}-{\frac {\ell }{n}}}
  
then the Sobolev embedding

  
    
      
        
          W
          
            k
            ,
            p
          
        
        (
        M
        )
        ⊂
        
          W
          
            ℓ
            ,
            q
          
        
        (
        M
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{k,p}(M)\subset W^{\ell ,q}(M)}
  

is completely continuous (compact). Note that the condition is just as in the first part of the Sobolev embedding theorem, with the equality replaced by an inequality, thus requiring a more regular space W k,p(M).


== Gagliardo–Nirenberg–Sobolev inequality ==
Assume that u is a continuously differentiable real-valued function on Rn with compact support. Then for 1 ≤ p < n there is a constant C depending only on n and p such that

  
    
      
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                
                  p
                  
                    ∗
                  
                
              
            
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
        
        ≤
        C
        ‖
        D
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                p
              
            
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle \|u\|_{L^{p^{*}}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}\leq C\|Du\|_{L^{p}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}.}
  

with 
  
    
      
        1
        
          /
        
        
          p
          
            ∗
          
        
        =
        1
        
          /
        
        p
        −
        1
        
          /
        
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle 1/p^{*}=1/p-1/n}
  
.
The case 
  
    
      
        1
        <
        p
        <
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle 1<p<n}
  
 is due to Sobolev and the case 
  
    
      
        p
        =
        1
      
    
    {\displaystyle p=1}
  
 to Gagliardo and Nirenberg independently. The Gagliardo–Nirenberg–Sobolev inequality implies directly the Sobolev embedding

  
    
      
        
          W
          
            1
            ,
            p
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
        ⊂
        
          L
          
            
              p
              
                ∗
              
            
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{1,p}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})\subset L^{p^{*}}(\mathbf {R} ^{n}).}
  

The embeddings in other orders on Rn are then obtained by suitable iteration.


== Hardy–Littlewood–Sobolev lemma ==
Sobolev's original proof of the Sobolev embedding theorem relied on the following, sometimes known as the Hardy–Littlewood–Sobolev fractional integration theorem. An equivalent statement is known as the Sobolev lemma in (Aubin 1982, Chapter 2). A proof is in (Stein 1970, Chapter V, §1.3).
Let 0 < α < n and 1 < p < q < ∞. Let Iα = (−Δ)−α/2 be the Riesz potential on Rn. Then, for q defined by

  
    
      
        
          
            1
            q
          
        
        =
        
          
            1
            p
          
        
        −
        
          
            α
            n
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{q}}={\frac {1}{p}}-{\frac {\alpha }{n}}}
  

there exists a constant C depending only on p such that

  
    
      
        
          
            ‖
            
              
                I
                
                  α
                
              
              f
            
            ‖
          
          
            q
          
        
        ≤
        C
        ‖
        f
        
          ‖
          
            p
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle \left\|I_{\alpha }f\right\|_{q}\leq C\|f\|_{p}.}
  

If p = 1, then one has two possible replacement estimates. The first is the more classical weak-type estimate:

  
    
      
        m
        
          {
          
            x
            :
            
              |
              
                
                  I
                  
                    α
                  
                
                f
                (
                x
                )
              
              |
            
            >
            λ
          
          }
        
        ≤
        C
        
          
            (
            
              
                
                  ‖
                  f
                  
                    ‖
                    
                      1
                    
                  
                
                λ
              
            
            )
          
          
            q
          
        
        ,
      
    
    {\displaystyle m\left\{x:\left|I_{\alpha }f(x)\right|>\lambda \right\}\leq C\left({\frac {\|f\|_{1}}{\lambda }}\right)^{q},}
  

where 1/q = 1 − α/n. Alternatively one has the estimate for dimension n≥2
  
    
      
        
          
            ‖
            
              
                I
                
                  α
                
              
              f
            
            ‖
          
          
            q
          
        
        ≤
        C
        ‖
        R
        f
        
          ‖
          
            1
          
        
        ,
      
    
    {\displaystyle \left\|I_{\alpha }f\right\|_{q}\leq C\|Rf\|_{1},}
  
where 
  
    
      
        R
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle Rf}
  
 is the vector-valued Riesz transform, cf. (Schikorra, Spector & Van Schaftingen 2017). The boundedness of the Riesz transforms implies that the latter inequality gives a unified way to write the family of inequalities for the Riesz potential.
The Hardy–Littlewood–Sobolev lemma implies the Sobolev embedding essentially by the relationship between the Riesz transforms and the Riesz potentials.


== Morrey's inequality ==
Assume n < p ≤ ∞. Then there exists a constant C, depending only on p and n, such that

  
    
      
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              C
              
                0
                ,
                γ
              
            
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
        
        ≤
        C
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              W
              
                1
                ,
                p
              
            
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \|u\|_{C^{0,\gamma }(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}\leq C\|u\|_{W^{1,p}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}}
  

for all u ∈ C1(Rn) ∩ Lp(Rn), where

  
    
      
        γ
        =
        1
        −
        
          
            n
            p
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle \gamma =1-{\frac {n}{p}}.}
  

Thus if u ∈ W 1,p(Rn), then u is in fact Hölder continuous of exponent γ, after possibly being redefined on a set of measure 0.
A similar result holds in a bounded domain U with Lipschitz boundary. In this case,

  
    
      
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              C
              
                0
                ,
                γ
              
            
            (
            U
            )
          
        
        ≤
        C
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              W
              
                1
                ,
                p
              
            
            (
            U
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \|u\|_{C^{0,\gamma }(U)}\leq C\|u\|_{W^{1,p}(U)}}
  

where the constant C depends now on n, p and U. This version of the inequality follows from the previous one by applying the norm-preserving extension of W 1,p(U) to W 1,p(Rn). The inequality is named after Charles B. Morrey Jr.


== General Sobolev inequalities ==
Let U be a bounded open subset of Rn, with a C1 boundary. (U may also be unbounded, but in this case its boundary, if it exists, must be sufficiently well-behaved.)
Assume u ∈ W k,p(U). Then we consider two cases:


=== k < n/p or k = n, p = 1 ===
In this case we conclude that u ∈ Lq(U), where

  
    
      
        
          
            1
            q
          
        
        =
        
          
            1
            p
          
        
        −
        
          
            k
            n
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{q}}={\frac {1}{p}}-{\frac {k}{n}}.}
  

We have in addition the estimate

  
    
      
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                q
              
            
            (
            U
            )
          
        
        ≤
        C
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              W
              
                k
                ,
                p
              
            
            (
            U
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \|u\|_{L^{q}(U)}\leq C\|u\|_{W^{k,p}(U)}}
  
,
the constant C depending only on k, p, n, and U.


=== k > n/p ===
Here, we conclude that u belongs to a Hölder space, more precisely:

  
    
      
        u
        ∈
        
          C
          
            k
            −
            
              [
              
                
                  n
                  p
                
              
              ]
            
            −
            1
            ,
            γ
          
        
        (
        U
        )
        ,
      
    
    {\displaystyle u\in C^{k-\left[{\frac {n}{p}}\right]-1,\gamma }(U),}
  

where

  
    
      
        γ
        =
        
          
            {
            
              
                
                  
                    [
                    
                      
                        n
                        p
                      
                    
                    ]
                  
                  +
                  1
                  −
                  
                    
                      n
                      p
                    
                  
                
                
                  
                    
                      n
                      p
                    
                  
                  ∉
                  
                    Z
                  
                
              
              
                
                  
                    any element in 
                  
                  (
                  0
                  ,
                  1
                  )
                
                
                  
                    
                      n
                      p
                    
                  
                  ∈
                  
                    Z
                  
                
              
            
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \gamma ={\begin{cases}\left[{\frac {n}{p}}\right]+1-{\frac {n}{p}}&{\frac {n}{p}}\notin \mathbf {Z} \\{\text{any element in }}(0,1)&{\frac {n}{p}}\in \mathbf {Z} \end{cases}}}
  

We have in addition the estimate

  
    
      
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              C
              
                k
                −
                
                  [
                  
                    
                      n
                      p
                    
                  
                  ]
                
                −
                1
                ,
                γ
              
            
            (
            U
            )
          
        
        ≤
        C
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              W
              
                k
                ,
                p
              
            
            (
            U
            )
          
        
        ,
      
    
    {\displaystyle \|u\|_{C^{k-\left[{\frac {n}{p}}\right]-1,\gamma }(U)}\leq C\|u\|_{W^{k,p}(U)},}
  

the constant C depending only on k, p, n, γ, and U. In particular, the condition 
  
    
      
        k
        >
        n
        
          /
        
        p
      
    
    {\displaystyle k>n/p}
  
 guarantees that 
  
    
      
        u
      
    
    {\displaystyle u}
  
 is continuous (and actually Hölder continuous with some positive exponent).


== Case p=n, k=1 ==
If 
  
    
      
        u
        ∈
        
          W
          
            1
            ,
            n
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle u\in W^{1,n}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  
, then u is a function of bounded mean oscillation and

  
    
      
        
          |
        
        u
        
          
            |
          
          
            BMO
            ⁡
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
        
        ≤
        C
        ‖
        D
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                n
              
            
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
        
        ,
      
    
    {\displaystyle |u|_{\operatorname {BMO} (\mathbf {R} ^{n})}\leq C\|Du\|_{L^{n}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})},}
  

for some constant C depending only on n. This estimate is a corollary of the Poincaré inequality. (It should as well be stressed that on the left hand side is the BMO seminorm.)


== Case kp=n ==
The prior result may be extended to arbitrary degree 
  
    
      
        k
      
    
    {\displaystyle k}
  
 . For 
  
    
      
        k
        ≥
        2
      
    
    {\displaystyle k\geq 2}
  
, if 
  
    
      
        k
        p
        =
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle kp=n}
  
, then for every 
  
    
      
        u
        ∈
        
          W
          
            k
            ,
            n
            
              /
            
            k
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle u\in W^{k,n/k}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  
 there exists a polynomial 
  
    
      
        P
      
    
    {\displaystyle P}
  
 of degree 
  
    
      
        k
        −
        1
      
    
    {\displaystyle k-1}
  
 such that 

  
    
      
        ‖
        u
        −
        P
        ∘
        u
        
          ‖
          
            BMO
            ⁡
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
        
        ≤
        C
        ‖
        
          D
          
            k
          
        
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                n
                
                  /
                
                k
              
            
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Vert u-P\circ u\Vert _{\operatorname {BMO} (\mathbf {R} ^{n})}\leq C\Vert D^{k}u\Vert _{L^{n/k}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}}
  

additionally, for any 
  
    
      
        j
        =
        1
        ,
        …
        ,
        k
        −
        1
      
    
    {\displaystyle j=1,\dots ,k-1}
  
, we have

  
    
      
        ‖
        
          D
          
            j
          
        
        (
        u
        −
        P
        ∘
        u
        )
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                n
                
                  /
                
                j
              
            
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
        
        ≤
        C
        ‖
        
          D
          
            k
          
        
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                n
                
                  /
                
                k
              
            
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \Vert D^{j}(u-P\circ u)\Vert _{L^{n/j}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}\leq C\Vert D^{k}u\Vert _{L^{n/k}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}}
  

In particular this implies the inclusion embedding

  
    
      
        
          W
          
            k
            ,
            n
            
              /
            
            k
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
        ↪
        BMO
        ⁡
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
        ∩
        
          W
          
            1
            ,
            
              q
              
                1
              
            
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
        ∩
        ⋯
        ∩
        
          W
          
            k
            −
            1
            ,
            
              q
              
                k
                −
                1
              
            
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle W^{k,n/k}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})\hookrightarrow \operatorname {BMO} (\mathbf {R} ^{n})\cap W^{1,q_{1}}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})\cap \dots \cap W^{k-1,q_{k-1}}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}
  

for all exponents 
  
    
      
        
          q
          
            j
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle q_{j}}
  
 satisfying 
  
    
      
        n
        
          /
        
        k
        ≤
        
          q
          
            j
          
        
        ≤
        n
        
          /
        
        j
      
    
    {\displaystyle n/k\leq q_{j}\leq n/j}
  
, 
  
    
      
        j
        =
        1
        ,
        …
        ,
        k
        −
        1
      
    
    {\displaystyle j=1,\dots ,k-1}
  
.


== Nash inequality ==
The Nash inequality, introduced by John Nash (1958), states that there exists a constant C > 0, such that for all u ∈ L1(Rn) ∩ W 1,2(Rn),

  
    
      
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                2
              
            
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
          
            1
            +
            2
            
              /
            
            n
          
        
        ≤
        C
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                1
              
            
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
          
            2
            
              /
            
            n
          
        
        ‖
        D
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                2
              
            
            (
            
              
                R
              
              
                n
              
            
            )
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle \|u\|_{L^{2}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}^{1+2/n}\leq C\|u\|_{L^{1}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}^{2/n}\|Du\|_{L^{2}(\mathbf {R} ^{n})}.}
  

The inequality follows from basic properties of the Fourier transform. Indeed, integrating over the complement of the ball of radius ρ,

because 
  
    
      
        1
        ≤
        
          |
        
        x
        
          
            |
          
          
            2
          
        
        
          /
        
        
          ρ
          
            2
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle 1\leq |x|^{2}/\rho ^{2}}
  
. On the other hand, one has

  
    
      
        
          |
        
        
          
            
              u
              ^
            
          
        
        
          |
        
        ≤
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                1
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle |{\hat {u}}|\leq \|u\|_{L^{1}}}
  

which, when integrated over the ball of radius ρ gives

where ωn is the volume of the n-ball. Choosing ρ to minimize the sum of (1) and (2) and applying Parseval's theorem:

  
    
      
        ‖
        
          
            
              u
              ^
            
          
        
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                2
              
            
          
        
        =
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                2
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle \|{\hat {u}}\|_{L^{2}}=\|u\|_{L^{2}}}
  

gives the inequality.
In the special case of n = 1, the Nash inequality can be extended to the Lp case, in which case it is a generalization of the Gagliardo-Nirenberg-Sobolev inequality (Brezis 2011, Comments on Chapter 8). In fact, if I is a bounded interval, then for all 1 ≤ r < ∞ and all 1 ≤ q ≤ p < ∞ the following inequality holds

  
    
      
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                p
              
            
            (
            I
            )
          
        
        ≤
        C
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              L
              
                q
              
            
            (
            I
            )
          
          
            1
            −
            a
          
        
        ‖
        u
        
          ‖
          
            
              W
              
                1
                ,
                r
              
            
            (
            I
            )
          
          
            a
          
        
        ,
      
    
    {\displaystyle \|u\|_{L^{p}(I)}\leq C\|u\|_{L^{q}(I)}^{1-a}\|u\|_{W^{1,r}(I)}^{a},}
  

where:

  
    
      
        a
        
          (
          
            
              
                1
                q
              
            
            −
            
              
                1
                r
              
            
            +
            1
          
          )
        
        =
        
          
            1
            q
          
        
        −
        
          
            1
            p
          
        
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle a\left({\frac {1}{q}}-{\frac {1}{r}}+1\right)={\frac {1}{q}}-{\frac {1}{p}}.}
  


== Logarithmic Sobolev inequality ==

The simplest of the Sobolev embedding theorems, described above, states that if a function 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 in 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
        (
        
          
            R
          
          
            n
          
        
        )
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}(\mathbb {R} ^{n})}
  
 has one derivative in 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}}
  
, then 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 itself is in 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            
              p
              
                ∗
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p^{*}}}
  
, where

  
    
      
        1
        
          /
        
        
          p
          
            ∗
          
        
        =
        1
        
          /
        
        p
        −
        1
        
          /
        
        n
        .
      
    
    {\displaystyle 1/p^{*}=1/p-1/n.}
  

We can see that as 
  
    
      
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle n}
  
 tends to infinity, 
  
    
      
        
          p
          
            ∗
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle p^{*}}
  
 approaches 
  
    
      
        p
      
    
    {\displaystyle p}
  
. Thus, if the dimension 
  
    
      
        n
      
    
    {\displaystyle n}
  
 of the space on which 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 is defined is large, the improvement in the local behavior of 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 from having a derivative in 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}}
  
 is small (
  
    
      
        
          p
          
            ∗
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle p^{*}}
  
 is only slightly larger than 
  
    
      
        p
      
    
    {\displaystyle p}
  
). In particular, for functions on an infinite-dimensional space, we cannot expect any direct analog of the classical Sobolev embedding theorems.
There is, however, a type of Sobolev inequality, established by Leonard Gross (Gross 1975) and known as a logarithmic Sobolev inequality, that has dimension-independent constants and therefore continues to hold in the infinite-dimensional setting. The logarithmic Sobolev inequality says, roughly, that if a function is in 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}}
  
 with respect to a Gaussian measure and has one derivative that is also in 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}}
  
, then 
  
    
      
        f
      
    
    {\displaystyle f}
  
 is in "
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}}
  
-log", meaning that the integral of 
  
    
      
        
          |
        
        f
        
          
            |
          
          
            p
          
        
        log
        ⁡
        
          |
        
        f
        
          |
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle |f|^{p}\log |f|}
  
 is finite. The inequality expressing this fact has constants that do not involve the dimension of the space and, thus, the inequality holds in the setting of a Gaussian measure on an infinite-dimensional space. It is now known that logarithmic Sobolev inequalities hold for many different types of measures, not just Gaussian measures.
Although it might seem as if the 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}}
  
-log condition is a very small improvement over being in 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}}
  
, this improvement is sufficient to derive an important result, namely hypercontractivity for the associated Dirichlet form operator. This result means that if a function is in the range of the exponential of the Dirichlet form operator—which means that the function has, in some sense, infinitely many derivatives in 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p}}
  
—then the function does belong to 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            
              p
              
                ∗
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{p^{*}}}
  
 for some 
  
    
      
        
          p
          
            ∗
          
        
        >
        p
      
    
    {\displaystyle p^{*}>p}
  
 (Gross 1975 Theorem 6).


== References ==

Adams, Robert A. (1975), Sobolev Spaces, Pure and Applied Mathematics, vol. 65, Academic Press, ISBN 978-0-12-044150-1, MR 0450957.
Aubin, Thierry (1976), "Espaces de Sobolev sur les variétés riemanniennes", Bulletin des Sciences Mathématiques, 2e Série, 100 (2): 149–173, MR 0488125
Aubin, Thierry (1982), Nonlinear analysis on manifolds. Monge-Ampère equations, Grundlehren der Mathematischen Wissenschaften [Fundamental Principles of Mathematical Sciences], vol. 252, Springer-Verlag, doi:10.1007/978-1-4612-5734-9, ISBN 978-0-387-90704-8, MR 0681859.
Brezis, Haïm (1983), Analyse Fonctionnelle: théorie et applications, Paris: Masson, ISBN 0-8218-0772-2
Brezis, Haïm (2011), Functional Analysis, Sobolev Spaces and Partial Differential Equations, Springer Science & Business Media, ISBN 978-0-387-70913-0
Evans, Lawrence (1998), Partial Differential Equations, Providence RI: American Mathematical Society, ISBN 0-8218-0772-2
Gross, Leonard (1975), "Logarithmic Sobolev inequalities", American Journal of Mathematics, 97 (4): 1061–1083, doi:10.2307/2373688, JSTOR 2373688
Leoni, Giovanni (2009), A First Course in Sobolev Spaces, Graduate Studies in Mathematics, American Mathematical Society, ISBN 978-0-8218-4768-8 MR 2527916, Zbl 1180.46001, MAA review
Maz'ja, Vladimir G. (1985), Sobolev Spaces, Springer Series in Soviet Mathematics, Springer-Verlag, Translated from the Russian by T. O. Shaposhnikova.
Nash, J. (1958), "Continuity of solutions of parabolic and elliptic equations", American Journal of Mathematics, 80 (4): 931–954, Bibcode:1958AmJM...80..931N, doi:10.2307/2372841, hdl:10338.dmlcz/101876, JSTOR 2372841.
Nečas, J. (2012), Direct Methods in the Theory of Elliptic Equations, Springer Monographs in Mathematics.
Nikol'skii, S.M. (2001) [1994], "Imbedding theorems", Encyclopedia of Mathematics, EMS Press
Schikorra, Armin; Spector, Daniel; Van Schaftingen, Jean (2017), "An 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            1
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L^{1}}
  
-type estimate for Riesz potentials", Revista Matemática Iberoamericana, 33 (1): 291–304, arXiv:1411.2318, doi:10.4171/rmi/937, S2CID 55497245
Stein, Elias (1970), Singular Integrals and Differentiability Properties of Functions, Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, ISBN 0-691-08079-8

Abbo Aboubakar (born 1960) is a Cameroonian politician, and public administrator. He is known for his roles in local government and public administration, He has served as mayor of the commune of Belel, located in the Vina department of the Adamawa region of Cameroon, since 2013.


== Early life and education ==
Abbo Aboubakar was born in Belel, Vina department, Adamawa region, Cameroon. He graduated from the National School of Administration and Magistracy (ENAM) in Cameroon, where he received training to prepare for senior administrative and magistrate roles. He also pursued further studies in France, at the national institute of the public administration (IAP) in Paris, focusing on public expenditure control (“Master in the control of public spending”). According to some reports, he was working on a PhD thesis at the University of Yaoundé II (Soa), on the topic of decentralization law.


== Career ==
Before entering elected office, Abbo Aboubakar held various positions in the Cameroonian government administration. Early in his career, he worked as a cadre at the Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries, and Animal Industries.
He later joined the services of the Prime Minister as an subordinate, where he was responsible for studies and served in a supervisory capacity from 2003. His administrative experience extended to managing budgetary affairs and serving on commissions related to public contracts and health programs funded by the Global Fund against AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria.
Since June 9, 2017, Abbo Aboubakar has been the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the transport Cameroon Railways Company (Camrail).


== Political career ==
Abbo Aboubakar was elected mayor of Belel, in the 2013 municipal elections. His political affiliation is with the ruling party, the Cameroon People's Democratic Movement (CPDM). In 2013, he also served as president of the municipal election campaign commission for RDPC in Belel and was later appointed president of the regional chapter of the Communes and United Cities of Cameroon (CVUC) for the Adamawa region.


== Awards ==
On March 2, 2022, Aboubakar Abbo was awarded the "Best Reportage Award of the International Technical and Style Writing Competition Africa Zone," an outcome fueled by his talent for crafting and a captivating narrative tone.


== References ==

Walter Burckhardt (2 March 1905 – 29 October 1971) was a Swiss dermatologist most notable for his contributions on occupational dermatoses.
During the 1930s, Burckhardt took over from Max Tièche the management of the City Department for Skin and Venereal Diseases in Zurich; he became Privatdozent in 1938 and Titularprofessor in 1947 at the University of Zurich.


== Publications ==
Peter J. Lynch, Stephan Epstein (editors). Burckhardt's Atlas and manual of dermatology and venerology. Williams & Wilkins, Baltimore 1977, ISBN 0-683-01134-0


== Further reading ==
Barbara Wicki-Bühler: Leben und Werk des Dermatologen Walter Burckhardt 1905–1971. Medical Dissertation. University of Zurich, Zürich 1995.

Methylobacillus flagellatus is a species of aerobic bacteria.


== Description and significance ==
Methylobacillus is a group of methylotrophic aerobic bacteria, and they can be found in large numbers in marine and fresh water ecosystems. These organisms are one of Earth's most important carbon recyclers, and they recycle such important carbon compounds as methane, methanol, and methylated amines on Earth. “In general methylotrophs can use green-house gases such as carbon dioxide and methane as substrates to fulfill their energy and carbon needs.” Furthermore, strong scientific evidences indicate that a subset group of methylotrophs, the methanotrophs, play huge roles in global warming and groundwater contamination. According to Bonnie et al., methane gas is far more efficient at absorbing infrared radiation than carbon dioxide gas, and “the concentration of methane has been increasing at an alarming rate of 1% per year for the last 150 year to 200 years.” The role that these methylotrophs play in carbon cycling may help us understand, and eventually combat global warming. Thus, it is imperative for researchers to classify, and study methylotrophic bacteria.
One such important methylotroph of interest is Methylobacillus flagellatus KT strain. Methylobacillus flagellatus was first isolated in the early 1980s in sewerage pipes of a metropolitan sanitary sewer. “M. flagellatus is most closely related to other members of the family Methylophilaceae.” The shape of M. flagellatus is an oval shape, with multiple flagella originating from opposite poles of the bacteria. Using small-subunit 16S rRNAs and comparing metabolic/phylogenic similarities and differences< between M. flagellatus and its relatives, scientists have determined that Methylobacillus flagellatus (betaproteobacteria) is more closely related to Methylobacterium extorquens (alphaproteobacteria) and Methylococcus capsulatus (gammaproteobacteria), than to Methylibium petroleiphilum (betaproteobacteria).


== Genome structure ==
The genome of Methylobacillus flagellatus is a circular chromosome that is approximately 3Mbp long, and it encodes about 2,766 proteins. According to Chistoserdova et al., M. flagellatus’ genome does not code for three enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA cycle). The failure of M. flagellatus to produce these three enzymes (dehydrogenases) means that it can only rely on one-carbon compounds as carbon substrates for the production of precursor molecules, and for its energy needs. The ability to use only one-carbon substrates automatically makes M. flagellatus an obligate methylotroph.
Overall characteristics of the M. flagellatus genome include 53.7% GC content and 143,032 base pairs that are direct repeats. Furthermore, there are approximately 2,766 coding regions, and only 233 open reading frames (ORFs) are unique to M. flagellatus. The genome also contains a CRISPR region, which is functionally linked to lateral gene transfer, host cell defense, replication, and regulation.


== Ecology ==
A recent attempt at phylogeny classification of obligate methylotrophs puts the genus Methylobacillus along with Methylophilus and Methylovorus as terrestrial methylobacteria, while marine obligate methylotrophs are assigned to the genus Methylophaga. Methylobacillus flagellatus KT strain was found in a metropolitan sewer system, whereas Methylobacillus pratensis were isolated from meadow grass. The important point is that the methylotrophs are very adaptable and they can be found in diverse ecosystems.
As mentioned before, the importance of studying M. flagellatus and other closely related species of methylobacteria will help us better understand the recycling of carbon on Earth. More specifically a better understanding of how these methylotrophs affect the carbon cycle would undoubtedly help us shed light on the effects of methane gas on global warming. “Approximately 10^3 megatons of methane are produced globally each year by anaerobic micro-organisms.” A subgroup of methylotrophs, the methanotrophs, oxidizes roughly %80-90 of the global methane. The significance of this fact cannot be overlooked, because without these methanotrophs the vast majority of atmospheric methane would not get degraded. The accumulation of methane gas would cause the Earth's temperature to rise dramatically, because methane gas is far more efficient at absorbing infrared radiation than carbon-dioxide gas, and “may contribute more [than carbon dioxide] to global warming.”


== Pathology ==
No known pathogenic quality of M. flagellatus has been discovered.


== Application to biotechnology ==
Specific characteristics of M. flagellatus such as its high coefficient of conversion of oxidizers (methanol) to its own biomass allows for practical applications such as inexpensive industrial productions of commercially needed compounds. These compounds can range from heterologous proteins and amino-acids to vitamins. Some methylotrophs within the genus of Methylobacillus can even use organic compounds such as the pesticide carbofuran and choline as carbon raw materials; they use these carbon sources to fulfill their energy and carbon requirements. As early as the late 1980s researchers had known that some methylotrophs possess enzymes such as dichloromethane dehalogenase, or methane monooxygenase (MMO), which degrade various environmental pollutants (i.e.: alkanes, alkenes, and mono- and poly-substituted aromatic compounds). Another common environmental pollutant that results from industrial processes is formaldehyde. Recently, a company called BIP Ltd has been cultivating a pink-pigmented methylotroph, strain BIP, for the specific purpose of remediating formaldehyde-contaminated industrial wastes.
Since there are not a lot of published researches on M. flagellatus in particular, hence, there are not a lot of data available about this organism on the topic of application to biotechnology. We can still look at M. flagellatus’ close relatives, the methanotrophs, to help us better understand the genus Methylobacillus. Methanotrophs are a subset of a physiological group of methylotrophs, and its sole assimilatory/dissmilatory carbon source is methane. Methanotrophs also possess MMO, it is known that this enzyme has a broad substrate specificity and it can catalyzes the oxidation of a wide variety of water pollutants, such as trichloroethylene, vinyl chloride, and other halogenated hydrocarbons. MMO’s primary role is to convert methane to methanol, and any methyltrophs that can synthesize MMO are most likely classified as methanotrophs.


== Current research ==


=== Genomic analysis ===
M. flagellatus is closely related to members of the family Methylophilaceae. Most of its genes are dedicated to its methylotrophy functions (i.e.: breaking down one-carbon compounds), and these genes are present in more than one identical or non-identical copy. M. flagellatus is an obligate methylotroph; this is the direct consequence of an incomplete set of genes that cannot encode 3 critical enzymes (dehydrogenases) of the TCA cycle. Its genome does not code for any secondary metabolite synthesis pathways such as antibiotic biosynthesis, and no known xenobiotic degradation pathways are encoded. The absence of these self-defense mechanisms may help explain why M. flagellatus has no pathogenic qualities.


=== Population survey/detection methods ===
In June 2006 Kalyuzhaya et al. published a paper (“Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization-Flow Cytometry-Cell Sorting-Based Method for Separation and Enrichment of Type I and Type II Methanotroph Populations”) detailing more precise methods for separating organisms of interests within a natural sample. Their experiment focused on separating Type I and Type II Methanotrophs using combined techniques of FISH/FC (fluorescence in situ hybridization-flow cytometry) and FACS (fluorescence-activated FC analysis and cell sorting). FISH/FC employs oligonucleotide attached to florescein, or Alexa for targeting 16S rRNA. The fluoresced microbe can then be subjected to analysis and cell sorting. The detection phase involves putting the detected sample to “functional gene analysis to indicate specific separation using 16S rRNA, pmoA (encoding a subunit of particulate methane monooxygenase), and fae (encoding formaldehyde activating enzyme) genes.” The data indicate that FISH/FC/FACS is a method that can “provide significant enrichment of microbial populations of interest from complex natural communities.” Lastly, Kalyuzhaya et al. tested the reliability of whole genome amplification (WGA) using limited numbers of sorted cells. They found that WGA would give more “specific” results if a rough threshold number of 10^4 or more cells are in a sample. Having proven FISH/FC/FACS’ effectiveness to detect microbial populations, Kalyuzhay et al. used mixed samples of M. flagellatus along with other members of the methylotrophs genus to test their method's effectiveness.


=== Metabolism ===
In “Analysis of two formaldehyde oxidation pathways in Methylobacillus flagellatus KT strain, a ribulose monophosphate cycle methylotroph” Chistoserdova et al. studied different pathways of formaldehyde oxidation in M. flagellatus KT strain to asset the importance of these pathways relating to dissimilatory metabolism, and, or formaldehyde detoxification.
Based on null mutant experiments of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (Gnd) (a key enzyme of the cyclic oxidation pathway), and methenyl H4MPT cyclohydrolase (CH) (participating in the direct oxidation of formaldehyde via H4MPT derivatives), Chistoserdova et al. have found that Gnd null mutants were not obtained, but CH null mutants were obtained. The experimental result suggests “that this pathway [cyclic oxidation] is essential for growth on methylotrophic substrates”, and that linear oxidation of formaldehyde via H4MPT derivatives is not required for growth. More specifically, “results confirm previous suggestions that the cyclic formaldehyde oxidation pathway plays a crucial role in C1 metabolism of M. flagellatus KT strain, most probably as the major energy-generating pathway.”
Metabolic comparisons between M. flagellatus (beta-proteobacteria) and Methylobacterium extorquens (alpha-proteobacteria) indicated that these species utilize the linear oxidation pathway via H4MPT linked derivatives differently. M. flagellatus “mutants defective in this (linear oxidation) pathway were more sensitive to formaldehyde than wild-type for cells grown on solid media but not in shaken liquid cultures.” The result provided clues that this pathway may serve to protect the M. flagellatus from excess formaldehyde, whereas Methylobacterium extorquens uses this pathway as its “main energy-generating pathway for methylotrophic growth.”


== References ==


== Further reading ==
Baev M V, Chistoserdova L V, Polanuer B M, et al. “Effect of formaldehyde on growth of obligate methylotroph Methylobacillus flagellatum in a substrate non-limited continuous culture” Archives of Microbiology. 1992. Vol 158, p. 145-148.
Methylobacillus flagellatus at NBCI


== External links ==
Type strain of Methylobacillus flagellatus at BacDive -  the Bacterial Diversity Metadatabase

Charles S. Graham (1852 – August 9, 1911) was an American artist whose work featured in nearly every issue of Harper's Weekly from 1880 to 1893. During this period he was one of the most well-known artists in the United States.


== Biography ==
Charles S. Graham was born in Rock Island, Illinois in 1852. In the early 1870s, he worked as a topographer for the Northern Pacific Railway in Idaho and Montana. Despite receiving no formal training as an artist, he was hired as a scenic artist for Hooley's Theater in Chicago. He then continued this work at several theaters in New York City. Around 1877, he joined Harper & Brothers and became an illustrator for Harper's Weekly, touring and illustrating the American West. He toured the Southern United States in 1886, illustrating a series of articles for Harper's on the New South. In 1892, he became a freelancer, though he continued to contribute to Harper's, along with The Century Magazine, Collier's and the New York Herald. Around this time his method shifted from pencil drawing and watercolor painting to oil painting. He was designated the official artist of the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893. Graham died in New York City on August 9, 1911.


== References ==

The Crimean Expedition in 1475, orchestrated under the command of Gedik Ahmed Pasha, stands as a pivotal naval campaign conducted by the Ottoman navy in 1475. Its primary objective was the seizure of the Genoese colonies nestled within Crimea, thereby asserting Ottoman authority over the region and placing the Crimean Khanate under Ottoman protection.


== Background ==
Following the momentous Conquest of Constantinople in 1453, Sultan Mehmed II strategically prioritized the consolidation of Ottoman control along the Black Sea coastline. This vision materialized through a series of conquests, notably the vassalization of the Principality of Moldavia in 1454, followed by the annexation of Amasra in 1459, Sinop, and the Greek Empire of Trebizond in 1461. However, despite these territorial gains, Crimea remained a coveted prize due to its strategic location along vital trade routes, predominantly controlled by the Genoese. Despite earlier Ottoman naval forays aimed at bolstering influence, such as expeditions against the Genoese stronghold of Kaffa in 1454 and 1469, the Genoese continued to wield considerable influence in Crimean affairs.
The year 1469 marked a turning point as tensions escalated following the Ottoman navy's incursion, led by Yakup Bey, resulting in the plunder of Genoese settlements and the capture of men loyal to Menli Giray, the Khan of Crimea. This incited a rift between Mehmed II and Menli Giray, the latter being perceived as an unfavorable candidate for the Crimean throne by Mehmed. Concurrently, the Genoese, though reducing their annual tribute, escalated their involvement in Crimean politics. Notably, their dismissal of Eminek Bey, suspected of Ottoman sympathies, ignited a rebellion against Menli Giray, prompting Mehmed II to conceive a military intervention in Crimea.


== Campaign ==

In the summer of 1475, Mehmed II dispatched the Rumelian army, led by Hadım Suleiman Pasha, to engage the Moldavian Principality while concurrently deploying the Ottoman fleet, under the command of Gedik Ahmed Pasha, to confront the Genoese presence in Crimea. A fleet comprising approximately 200 ships, alongside transport vessels, embarked on the expedition and landed on the Crimean peninsula in early June. Despite initial attempts at peaceful negotiations for the surrender of the castle of Caffa, Turkish forces, under Gedik Ahmed Pasha, resorted to a siege when their entreaties were rebuffed. The castle ultimately capitulated on June 9, following pressure exerted on the Genoese tekfur, the castle's garrison commander. This marked a significant victory as Turkish troops entered and secured the fortress.

Subsequent to the capture of Caffa, Gedik Ahmed Pasha facilitated the release of Menli Giray from Genoese captivity and forged a treaty establishing Ottoman protectorate over the Crimean Khanate. The Ottoman navy swiftly expanded its conquests, capturing strategic strongholds such as Caffa, Sudak, Kerch, and Azov, effectively dismantling Genoese dominance in Crimea.


== Aftermath ==
The Crimean Expedition of 1475 emerged as a watershed moment, representing the Ottoman navy's second major overseas military endeavor following the Siege of Negroponte in 1470. This triumph solidified Ottoman hegemony over Crimea and secured control over crucial Northern Black Sea trade routes. Furthermore, the Crimean Khanate's integration into the Ottoman protectorate heralded a transformative shift in regional geopolitics, granting the Khanate strategic leverage over neighboring adversaries while affording the Ottoman Empire an avenue to extend its influence through proxy intervention.


== See also ==
Mengli I Giray
Gedik Ahmed Pasha
Siege of Negroponte (1470)


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Sources ==
Nur Akbaş, Gedik Ahmed Pasha's Crimean Expedition According to Ottoman Sources,  International Journal of Historical Studies ISBN 214995351X
Âşık Paşazâde, History of the Ottomans ISBN 9754284954
Alexander A. Vasiliev, The Goths in the Crimea ISBN 091095609X
Selahattin Tansel, Sultan the Conqueror Mehmet's Political and Military Activities, Istanbul 1999
Encyclopedia of Islam, Gedik Ahmed Pasha, Turkish Religious Foundation 1996


== External links ==
The Goths in the Crimea : Alexander A. Vasiliev : Free Download, Borrow, and Streaming : Internet Archive
GEDİK AHMED PAŞA - TDV İslâm Ansiklopedisi (islamansiklopedisi.org.tr)

Leucospermum pedunculatum is an evergreen, low shrub of 15–30 cm (5.9–11.8 in) high, spreading from a single stern upright stem, from the family Proteaceae. The powdered or hairless, line-shaped to somewhat sickle-shaped leaves are 3–6 cm (1.2–2.4 in) long and 2–5 mm (0.08–0.20 in) wide. The stalked, individually set flower heads are globe-shaped, 2½−3 cm (1.0−1.2 in) in diameter consist of initially white to pale cream flowers that eventually turn carmine. From the center of the flowers emerge straight styles that jointly give the impression of a pincushion. It is called white-trailing pincushion in English. It flowers from August to January, peaking in September. It is an endemic species that is restricted to a narrow strip on the south coast of the Western Cape province of South Africa.


== Description ==
Leucospermum pedunculatum is a low spreading shrub of 15–30 cm (½–1 ft) high, that forms dense mats of up to 3 m (10 ft) in diameter, that grows from a single stout upright main stem, of up to about 30 cm (1 ft) high and 1–15 cm (0.4–6 in) in diameter. This gives rise to stout, horizontally spreading branches. The powdery, hairy flowering stems at the edge of the mat are slender, 2–3 mm (0.08–0.12 in) thick, and carry short side branches that each produce a flower head at their tip. The leaves are line-shaped, sometimes somewhat sickle-shaped, 3–6 cm (1.2–2.4 in) long and 2–5 mm (0.08–0.20 in) wide, hairless to very finely powdery, well spaced from each other, on trailing stems sometimes directed upwards. They are bright green in the west, and more olive-coloured in the east of their distribution, where it is also more upright.
The flower heads are globe-shaped, 2½−3 cm (1.0−1.2 in) in diameter, mostly set individually, with a prominent stalk peduncle of 2–4 cm (0.8–1.6 in) long. The common base of the flowers in the same head is very low conic, almost flat, about 4 mm (0.16 in) high and 7 mm (0.28 in) across. The bracts that subtend the flower head are lance-shaped with a pointy tip (or acuminate), about 6 mm (0.24 in) long and 1½ mm (0.06 in) wide, cartilaginous in consistency, set with straight hairs, rather loosely overlapping, and the tips slightly curved back.
The bract that subtends the individual flower is inverted lance-shaped, about 7 mm (0.28 in) long and 2 mm (0.079 in) wide, the tip is drawn to a point, the margins enclose the flower at the foot, and the outer surface is densely woolly hairy. The 4-merous perianth is straight, in bud cylinder-shaped, initially white to pale cream, but changing to carmine. The lower part with the lobes fused (called the tube) is about 7 mm (0.28 in) long, powdery higher up, but hairless and narrower at the base. The middle part, where all four lobes become free when the flower opens (called claws), is all equally recurved higher up and set with straight hairs. The higher part of the lobes (called limbs) is narrowly lance-shaped with a recurved, pointy tip, about 2 mm (0.079 in) long, and set on the outside with upright, stiff hairs. The style is straight, 1¾–2 cm long, initially pale cream, later becoming carmine coloured. The slightly thickened tip, called pollen presenter, is pointy cylinder-shaped, slightly cleft, about 1½ mm (0.06 in) long, with a groove that acts as the stigma across the very tip. Subtending the ovary are four opaque, line-shaped scales of about 1 mm (0.04 in) long.
The flowers of Leucospermum pedunculatum are sweetly scented.


=== Differences with related species ===
L. pedunculatum differs from Leucospermum prostratum by the stern, upright main stem of up to 30 cm (1 ft) high and 15 cm across, the horizontal branches that carry the flowering stems, on which short side branches that end in one flower head, the bright green leaves, and the creamy white (later carmine) flowers, with styles of 1¾–2 cm long. L. prostratum has branches that emerge from the ground, leaves initially greyish green but later dull olive-green, yellow flowers that age to orange and styles of 1–1½ cm long.


== Taxonomy ==
As far as we know, the white-trailing pincushion was first collected for science in 1838 by Johan Carl Krauss. Johann Friedrich Klotzsch described it in Krauss' book Beiträge zur Flora des Cap- und Natallandes [Contribution to the Flora of the lands of the Cape and Natal], which was published in 1845. Both Carl Meissner and Edwin Percy Phillips considered it to be synonymous with L. saxatile. In 1891, Otto Kuntze reassigned all known species of Leucospermum to the genus Leucadendron, a view that received little support from later authors. John Patrick Rourke confirmed the distinctness of the white-trailing pincushion.
L. pedunculatum has been assigned to the louse pincushions, section Diastelloidea.
The species name pedunculatum means "having an inflorescence stalk".


== Distribution, habitat, and ecology ==
L. pedunculatum occurs on the south coast of the Western Cape province in a narrow strip between Cape Agulhas (Springfonteyn) in the southeast and Danger Point (Franskraal) in the west, of at most 6½ km (4 mi) from the sea and 200 m (600 ft) altitude. It mostly grows on white sandy flats of Tertiary or Quaternary origin rimming the limestone ridges parallel to the sea. Although few plants are found on wind-blown sand accumulated between the limestone hills, they never grow on the limestone itself. At higher altitude, the species also grows on weathered Table Mountain Sandstone. The average annual precipitation along its distribution is 375–650 mm (15–25 in), which primarily falls during the winter half year.
The plants can survive the wildfires that naturally occur in the strandveld and fynbos it grows in, by regrowing from the main stem, but only if the fire is not too intense.
The white-trailing pincushion is pollinated by rodents, which may be attracted by its sweet, yeasty-smelling flowers that are great at attracting mice.


== Conservation ==
The white-trailing pincushion is considered to be a species of least concern because of its stable population.


== References ==


== External links ==
Photos

Horatio Walpole, 2nd Earl of Orford (13 or 24 June 1752 – 15 June 1822), styled The Honourable Horatio Walpole between 1757 and 1806 and Lord Walpole between 1806 and 1809, was a British peer and politician.


== Background ==
Orford was the son of Horatio Walpole, 1st Earl of Orford, son of Horatio Walpole, 1st Baron Walpole (of Wolterton), brother of Prime Minister Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Orford. His mother was Lady Rachel Cavendish, daughter of William Cavendish, 3rd Duke of Devonshire. He gained the courtesy title Lord Walpole when the earldom of Orford was revived in favour of his father in 1806.


== Political career ==
Orford was elected Member of Parliament for Wigan in 1780, a seat he held until 1784, and then represented King's Lynn between 1784 and 1809. The latter year he succeeded his father in the earldom and entered the House of Lords.
During the American War of Independence his kinsman George Walpole, 3rd Earl of Orford (of the first creation), as Lord Lieutenant of Norfolk, appointed him Lieutenant-Colonel of the East Norfolk Militia. After the earl died, Horatio was promoted to succeed him as Colonel of the West Norfolk Militia. On his own death in 1822, he was succeeded in command by his son Horatio Walpole, 3rd Earl of Orford.


== Family ==
Lord Orford was twice married. He married firstly Sophia, daughter of Charles Churchill and granddaughter of Robert Walpole, in 1781. After her death in 1797, he married secondly Catherine, daughter of Reverend James Tunstall, in 1806. She died the following year. Lord Orford survived her by 15 years and died in June 1822. He was succeeded in the earldom by his son, Horatio.


== Arms ==


== References ==

Doug Balliett is an American composer, double bassist, and poet based in New York City. He has taught Baroque double bass and violone at the Juilliard School since 2017. Since 2020 he has been composer-in-residence at St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, where he writes new liturgical music each week for Theotokos, an ensemble of vocalists and early-music specialists that he leads.


== Early life and education ==
Balliett grew up in the Boston area; his identical twin brother, Brad Balliett, is a bassoonist. He entered Harvard University in 2001 and left after his junior year to become assistant principal bass of the San Antonio Symphony, completing his bachelor's degree in 2007. In 2010 he entered the historical performance program at the Juilliard School, where he studied Baroque bass with Robert Nairn, graduating in 2012. He was subsequently a fellow of Carnegie Hall's Ensemble ACJW (now Ensemble Connect).


== Performance ==
Balliett performs on both modern and period instruments. Early Music America described him in 2024 as "America's most in-demand Baroque bassist". He is a member of the period-instrument ensembles ACRONYM and Ruckus, of which he is a founding member, and plays bass with the American Modern Opera Company (AMOC). He appears regularly with Les Arts Florissants, including at William Christie's summer festival in Thiré, France. In 2017, Juilliard appointed him professor of Baroque bass, succeeding his former teacher Nairn.


== Composition ==
Balliett's music often combines period instruments and Baroque forms with contemporary idioms, including hip-hop and spoken word set to his own poetry. As composer-in-residence of the ensemble New Vintage Baroque in 2013–14, he wrote five "rap cantatas" on myths from Ovid's Metamorphoses; reviewing the first, based on the myth of Diana and Actaeon, The New York Times praised its "emotive precision" and "contemporary twists". The Ovid cantatas became a recurring strand of his work: they formed part of his 2018 composer residency at the Spoleto Festival USA, and during the COVID-19 pandemic Les Arts Florissants recorded six of them for streaming. His other vocal music includes settings of Elizabethan poetry and T. S. Eliot written for the chamber ensemble The Colonials, of which he was a member.
His first opera, Gawain and the Green Knight, a two-hour setting of the Arthurian tale, was premiered by ACRONYM in the undercroft of St. Mary's Church in 2019 and has been revived there annually on New Year's Eve. His second opera, Rome Is Falling, received its workshop premiere from AMOC at the 2022 Ojai Music Festival; in The New Yorker, Alex Ross noted the "riotous, pop-flavored eclecticism of Doug Balliett's mini-opera".
With the bass-baritone Davóne Tines and Clay Zeller-Townson of Ruckus, Balliett created What Is Your Hand in This?, a program marking the 250th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence through American music ranging from Revolutionary-era anthems to Sam Cooke, in arrangements mostly by Balliett. It premiered in Washington, D.C., in January 2026.


== Theotokos ==
Since autumn 2020, Balliett has been composer-in-residence at St. Mary's Roman Catholic Church on the Lower East Side, where he writes new liturgical settings each week for Theotokos, a rotating group of New York City vocalists and early-music specialists, and leads four Masses a week in three languages. William Christie appeared as a guest harpsichordist at a Theotokos Mass in November 2023. The ensemble has also performed outside the church, including on Gotham Early Music Scene's Midtown Concerts series and in Relics & Martyrs, presented by Death of Classical in the crypt of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in October 2025.


== References ==

Ernst Aleksander Grönlund (18 December 1902, in Helsinki – 13 February 1968, in Helsinki) was a Finnish footballer and bandy player.


== Football career ==
He earned 37 caps at international level between 1931 and 1940, scoring 11 goals. He also represented Finland at the 1936 Summer Olympics.
At club level Grönlund played for Töölön Vesa, HIFK, HJK, KaPS and Jyry.


== Bandy career ==
He capped 7 times at international level and won Finnish Championship 4 times.


== Honours ==


=== Football ===
Finnish Championship: 1931, 1933, 1937


== References ==


== External links ==
Ernst Grönlund at National-Football-Teams.com
Ernst Grönlund at WorldFootball.net

Olivia Chambers (born April 11, 2003) is a visually impaired American para swimmer, who competes in the S13 classification. She won a gold medal and two silver medals at the 2024 Summer Paralympics.


== Career ==


=== 2022 ===
Chambers competed in her first para-specific swim meet in early May at the Bill Keating Cincinnati Para-Swimming Open. She achieved times fast enough to be named to the U.S. Para Swimming National Team. In July, Chambers recorded her first U.S. Para Swimming American Record in the 400-meter individual medley S13 at the USA Swimming Futures Championships in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
In October, Chambers made her international debut at the Citi Para Swimming World Series in Tijuana, Mexico. Recording personal best times in both events, she claimed a silver medal in the 400-meter freestyle and a bronze medal in the 100-meter butterfly, her first international medals. Chambers also swam the 100-meter backstroke, finishing fourth.
At the 2022 U.S. Paralympic National Championships, she won gold medals in the 400-meter freestyle and 200-meter individual medley and a bronze medal in the 100-meter butterfly. She was subsequently named the Swimmer of the Meet by virtue of having the best overall point total among competing athletes.


=== 2023 ===
On January 24, 2023, Chambers was named to the 2023 U.S. Paralympics Swimming National Team roster. On April 29, 2023, she was named to team USA's roster to compete at the 2023 World Para Swimming Championships. She won a medal in all six events she competed in, to lead the United States in medals. On the first day of the competition she won a bronze medal in the 100 m butterfly S13 event. On the second day she won a bronze medal in the 100 m breaststroke SB13 event. On the third day she won a bronze medal in the 100 m freestyle S13 event, with a career-best time of 1:00.12. After an off day, on the fifth day she won a bronze medal in the 50 m freestyle S13 event. On the sixth day she won a silver medal in the 400 m freestyle S13 event. On the final day of the competition she won a silver medal in the 200 m individual medley SM13 event.


=== 2024 ===
On June 30, 2024, Chambers was named to team USA's roster to compete at the 2024 Summer Paralympics. At the Paralympics she won a gold medal in the 400 metre freestyle S13 event and silver medals in the 100 metre breaststroke SB13 and 200 metre individual medley SM13 events.
In December at the U.S. Para Swimming National Championships, Chambers established a new World Record and personal best in the 1500-meter freestyle S13 with a 17:48.60, lowering her previous record by over five seconds. In the process, her initial 800-meters of the race set a new World Record in the 800-meter freestyle S13 at 9:29.21.


=== 2025 ===
On May 29, 2025, she was named to team USA's roster to compete at the 2025 World Para Swimming Championships. She won gold medals in the 100 metre breaststroke SB13, 100 metre freestyle S13, 400 metre freestyle S13 and 200 metre individual medley S13, and a bronze medal in the 50 metre freestyle S13 event.


== Personal life ==
Chambers began losing her vision in August 2019 when she was 16 and was declared legally blind. She was later diagnosed with multiple mitochondrial gene deletion syndrome. Chambers has a guide dog named Mahi. She and her dog have been paired together since late August 2023.
She is the co-host of the podcast Optical Delusion, along with fellow Paralympic swimmer Grace Nuhfer.


== Record swims ==


== References ==

York Hotel may refer to:

York Hotel, Kalgoorlie, a heritage hotel in Western Australia
York Hotel, Adelaide, a 19th century Australian hotel developed by C. A. Hornabrook
York Hotel, Redcar, an English hotel that was the site of the York Hotel Fire in 1970.


== See also ==
Fairmont Royal York, a hotel in Toronto

Dub Radio (Serbian Cyrillic: Дуб Радио) is a Bosnian local public radio station, broadcasting from Kozarska Dubica, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
The station was launched as Radio Bosanska Dubica in 1972 by the municipal council of Bosanska Dubica. In Yugoslavia and in SR Bosnia and Herzegovina, it was part of local/municipal Radio Sarajevo network affiliate.
The program is mainly produced in Serbian. Estimated number of potential listeners of Dub Radio is around 19,545. Radiostation is also available in neighboring Croatia.
Local public cable television channel RTV KD is also part of public municipality services.


== See also ==
List of radio stations in Bosnia and Herzegovina


== Frequencies ==
Kozarska Dubica/Brod 96.7 MHz


== References ==


== External links ==
www.rtv-kd.com
www.fmscan.org
Communications Regulatory Agency of Bosnia and Herzegovina

Granges-sur-Lot (French pronunciation: [ɡʁɑ̃ʒ syʁ lɔt], literally Granges on Lot; Occitan: Granjas d'Òut) is a commune in the Lot-et-Garonne department in south-western France.


== See also ==
Communes of the Lot-et-Garonne department


== References ==

The Capture of Fallujah (19 March 1917) was a brief and strategic military engagement during the Mesopotamian campaign of World War I, where a British brigade successfully seized the town of Fallujah from a small Ottoman garrison.
Forming a crucial component of the Samarra offensive, the seizure of Fallujah ensured that Sir Frederick Stanley Maude's Anglo-Indian force would not have to cope with flooding of the Euphrates plains during their advance further north from Baghdad. Falluja, to the west of Baghdad, formed a flood-control area around the Euphrates River. Garrisoned only by a small force, it was handily seized by a British brigade on 19 March 1917, six days after Baghdad fell to the British.
However, the retreating Turkish force took care to seriously damage the dams protecting floodplains further south. The problem could have been a serious one for the British, but for the fact that the Euphrates was currently low, although repair work was hampered by attacks from local Marsh Arabs, who attacked both sides equally, without prejudice. Once repair work—which occupied several days—was completed, the British force was able to rejoin the main offensive.


== History ==


=== Prelude ===
On 11 March, General Maude issued orders for the 1st Corps to advance a brigade group to Nukhta on the road to Fallujah the following day. However, on the morning of the 12th, the order was canceled and replaced with instructions to send a reconnaissance party on the 13th to determine whether sufficient water was available there.
Information received on the 13th indicated that the Turkish force from the Euphrates had probably already reached Fallujah and intended to cut the flood embankments at the mouth of the Sakhlawiya Canal. By evening, reports confirmed that Nukhta held only enough water for roughly a brigade. In any case, supply and transport difficulties made it impossible to dispatch a separate column to Fallujah in addition to the force already advancing to attack the Turks at Mushahida.
On 14 March, British airplanes reported that only two small enemy steamers were operating within ten miles of Fallujah, and that no more than about 200 enemy troops had been observed in the area. By the 16th, it had become clear that few, if any, Turkish forces remained within fifty miles of Baghdad along the Tigris, and that the embankments had been secured for thirty miles north of the city. General Maude therefore ordered the 1st Corps to dispatch a brigade group to Fallujah on the 18th to hold the town and protect the Sakhlawiya embankment.
On the morning of 17 March, reports suggested that the Turkish force near Fallujah might number as many as 2,000 cavalry and infantry supported by three guns. In response, General Cobbe was instructed to reinforce the Fallujah column with two howitzers in addition to an 18-pounder battery. By the evening, news that floodwater from Lake Aqarquf had advanced to within four and a half miles of Kadhimain confirmed that the Turks had likely cut the Sakhlawiya embankment. Protective measures had already been put in place, however, and the 1st Corps, assisted by technical troops and local labor, strengthened a defensive line running from the Tigris above Kadhimain along the railway embankment and the Mahsudiya Canal.


=== Operations ===


==== Occupation of Nukhta (18 March 1917) ====
Early on 18 March, a column under Brigadier-General Sisley Richard Davidson (1869–1952) set out for Nukhta. It consisted of a squadron of the 32nd Lancers, 66th Field Battery, a section of the 524th Howitzer Battery, the 21st Company Sappers and Miners, the 7th Infantry Brigade, and a company of the 34th Sikh Pioneers, supported by a pack wireless set and medical and supply units.
An advance party, which had departed three hours ahead to improve the water supply, exchanged a brief fire with a Turkish patrol near Nukhta. Apart from this encounter, the column met no resistance, and an ample supply of good water was secured from an irrigation canal recently opened by local Arabs.


==== Skirmish East of Fallujah (18 March 1917) ====
After arriving at the village of Fallujah, the Ottoman group commander ordered the Cavalry Regiment to conduct reconnaissance and maintain observation along the Baghdad route, which led the regiment to dispatch one company toward Baghdad.
When the British advance resumed the following morning on March 18, the 32nd Lancers encountered these enemy mounted troops about four miles (six kilometers) east of Fallujah along the Baghdad–Fallujah road. The Ottoman company engaged the vanguard of the British cavalry regiment in a dismounted skirmish, but the Ottoman force was unable to advance after coming under the reconnaissance fire of the British cavalry artillery. Forced to withdraw before the British advance, the Ottoman company retreated to rejoin its regiment positioned six kilometers east of Fallujah.
After the Ottoman cavalry unit, unable to withstand the superior British cavalry, withdrew from its position, British forces of various formations advanced toward Fallujah at 9:00. They moved through a section where the river formed a two-kilometer indentation, an area crossed by several old canals. Large mounds of rubble in this sector provided the British with covered approaches, allowing them to advance under concealment.


==== Capture of Fallujah (19 March 1917) ====
The following day, at 11:00, the 1st Battalion of the 64th Regiment joined the Ottoman detachment. British reconnaissance had indicated that the Turkish force, estimated at brigade strength, had prepared trenches covering Fallujah. However, the Turks made no serious attempt to hold their position. By 12:15, fifteen minutes after the British attack began, the cessation of firing and smoke rising from Fallujah showed that the Turkish troops were already retreating.
The British force advancing on Fallujah was estimated to comprise two infantry brigades and one cavalry brigade. In reality, the defensive position selected for Fallujah had been hastily prepared and was inadequate for sustaining a serious engagement. Moreover, after an unsuccessful battle, crossing the turbulent Euphrates River appeared impossible. For this reason, at 14:00, the Ottoman group commander ordered the fighting to cease and began withdrawing the detachment to the right bank. Once all units of the group had crossed the river, the Fallujah Bridge was burned.
General Davidson then sent his cavalry ahead to secure the Sakhlawiya Canal while advancing with the main force. The British were able to pursue only as far as the Sakhlawiya embankment, where a brief engagement caused heavy losses among the British elite cavalry. After withdrawing from the immediate pursuit, the British began shelling Fallujah at 14:30. Half an hour later, they advanced to the village, entered Fallujah at 15:15, and prevented the complete destruction of the bridge over the Euphrates. They then opened fire, at a range of about 1,200 yards, on a substantial body of Turkish troops retreating along the right bank, including the Ottoman rear-guard cavalry squadron, which formed the last echelon of the detachment.


==== Skirmish West of Sakhlawiya (19 March 1917) ====
At 17:00, the Ottoman troops, under the direction of the column commander, began retreating toward Ramadi. At the same time, British cavalry reached the Sakhlawiya sluice gates and learned that Turkish guns were positioned on the riverbank slightly farther west, while a Turkish gunboat was moving upstream towing a coracle filled with troops. Hoping to capture it, two cavalry troops took up positions along the riverbank and opened rifle fire at a range of 150 yards. The gunboat replied with shrapnel fire. Realizing the position could not be held, the cavalry commander ordered a withdrawal. During the retreat, the squadron was attacked by local Arabs and escaped only with difficulty, suffering 25 casualties. The main British column, however, incurred no losses. At Fallujah, it captured thirteen prisoners, a steam barge, a damaged launch, and a considerable quantity of supplies.


=== Aftermath ===
On the morning of 20 March, a British detachment occupied the mouth of the Sakhlawiya Canal without encountering opposition. The breach in the embankment, reportedly created by the Turks a fortnight earlier, proved too extensive to repair. The detachment remained in position there, while the main body of the column held Fallujah and maintained a bridgehead on the right bank of the river. Once repair work—which occupied several days—was completed, the British force was able to rejoin the main offensive.


== Notes ==


== References ==


== Bibliography ==


== Further reading ==
Majd, M. G. (2006). Iraq in World War I: From Ottoman Rule to British Conquest. United Kingdom: Bloomsbury Academic.

Vanessa English (born 9 May 1989), is a Brazilian jiu-jitsu black belt competitor and instructor. In coloured belt she is a multiple-time European champion, in both Gi and No-Gi, and is the first British-born Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu competitor to win the IBJJF World Championships. English is a 2018 World Championship black belt medallist and the 2018 European Open black belt Champion.


== Career ==
Vanessa English was born on 9 May 1989 in King's Lynn, Norfolk, England. At the age of 16 she started Capoeira, followed by Japanese jujutsu, then in 2009 Brazilian jiu-jitsu at Gracie Barra Derby under Pat and Steven Martin; here she began competing as a white belt. In 2012 she moved to Nottingham at another Gracie Barra academy under Victor Estima and Gareth Neale. As a blue belt she won the British Open Championship in both Gi and No-Gi then won bronze at the 2011 World Championship. English started training daily, sometimes following her night shifts as a home carer in Nottingham. After receiving her purple belt in 2012, English won the British Open again. In 2013 she became world champion and European champion after winning the 2013 World Championship, the 2013 European Open Championship and the 2013 European Open No-Gi Championship, she became the first British born Brazilian Jiu Jitsu competitor to win the IBJJF World Championships in the adult division. After receiving her brown belt in 2014, she won the IBJJF London International Open then won the European Champion two years in a row (2014 & 2015), also winning bronze in the Open Class in 2014.


== Black belt career ==
On 7 June 2015, English was upgraded to black belt by Victor Estima. As a black belt English won the 2018 Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu European Championship after defeating Livia Gluchowska in the light-featherweight's division finale. and the Abu Dhabi Grand Slam London. In 2018 she won bronze at the 2018 World Jiu-Jitsu Championship taking place in Long Beach, California, In 2023 she won gold at the IBJJF London Open competing in the light division.
English was invited to compete at the first Kairos Pro Jiu-Jitsu event on May 7, 2023. She registered 3 wins and 1 draw to win her group and progress to the final, followed by defeating Gabi Schuck by decision to win the tournament.
English was invited to compete at Grapplefest 16 on July 1, 2023 for the promotion's vacant under 60kgs title against Adele Fornarino. English lost the match by decision.


== Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu competitive summary ==
Main Achievements (Black Belt)

IBJJF European Champion (2018)
Abu Dhabi Grand Slam London Champion (2017)
IBJJF London International Open champion (2023)
IBJJF London Winter Open Champion (2017)
2nd place Abu Dhabi World Pro Championship (2017)
2nd place IBJJF London Winter Open (2017)
3rd place IBJJF London International Open (2023)
3rd place IBJJF World Championship (2018)
Main Achievements (Coloured Belts)

IBJJF World Champion (2013 purple)
IBJJF European Champion (2013 purple, 2014/2015 brown)
IBJJF European Open No-Gi Champion (2013 purple)
IBJJF London Open Champion (2014 brown)
3rd place IBJJF World Championship (2011 blue)
3rd place IBJJF European Champion (2014 brown)


== Instructor lineage ==
Mitsuyo Maeda > Carlos Gracie > Helio Gracie > Carlos Gracie Jr. > Victor Estima > Vanessa English


== Notes ==


== References ==

The Cocody Flood Canal (French: Canal de drainage de Cocody) is a stormwater drainage infrastructure located in the Cocody commune of Abidjan, Ivory Coast. It forms part of the city's broader flood management system designed to mitigate recurrent flooding in low-lying urban areas.


== Background ==
Cocody is one of the largest and most populous communes of Abidjan, situated on the northern side of the Ébrié Lagoon. The area experiences heavy seasonal rainfall, with annual precipitation exceeding 1,800 mm, making flood management a critical urban infrastructure concern.
Rapid urbanization and informal settlement expansion have placed significant pressure on the commune's drainage systems. Inadequate drainage capacity and poor waste management have been identified as contributing factors to persistent flooding problems.


== Infrastructure and function ==
The canal is designed to channel excess stormwater away from residential neighborhoods and major roadways, directing runoff toward the Ébrié Lagoon. It operates in conjunction with smaller collector drains and retention basins distributed throughout the commune.
The Cocody drainage network has undergone several rehabilitation projects funded by the Ivorian government and international development partners, including the World Bank, as part of the Abidjan Urban Resilience Project.


== Flooding issues ==
Despite the canal's presence, Cocody continues to experience flooding during intense rainfall events. Research and government reports cite several causes, including:

Sedimentation and silt accumulation within the canal
Blockage by solid waste and plastic debris
Encroachment of informal structures on drainage easements
Insufficient maintenance and cleaning schedules
In June 2018, severe flooding in Cocody caused multiple fatalities and significant property damage, prompting renewed government attention to drainage infrastructure investment.


== Recent developments ==
In 2020, the Ivorian government launched the Projet de Gestion Intégrée des Eaux Pluviales à Abidjan (Integrated Stormwater Management Project for Abidjan), which includes the rehabilitation and expansion of the Cocody drainage canal system. The project is supported by the Agence Française de Développement (AFD) and aims to reduce flood risk for over 500,000 residents.


== See also ==
Geography of Ivory Coast
Ébrié Lagoon
Abidjan Lagoon Drainage Canal


== References ==

Dungeons & Dragons: Dark Alliance is a third-person action role-playing game published by Wizards of the Coast and developed by its subsidiary Tuque Games. Based on the Dungeons & Dragons tabletop role-playing system, the title of the game alludes to Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance and Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance II, seeing itself as their spiritual successor, although its story and gameplay are not related to those earlier titles. The game was released in June 2021 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S. It was delisted from digital storefronts and had its online multiplayer servers shut down on February 24, 2025, though the single-player mode remains accessible to existing owners.


== Gameplay ==
Dark Alliance is set in the tundra region of Icewind Dale, and features characters from R. A. Salvatore's novel series The Legend of Drizzt, including the four playable characters: Drizzt Do'Urden, Catti-brie, Bruenor Battlehammer, and Wulfgar. The game includes both single-player and multiplayer modes. In the single-player mode, the player can choose any of the four characters to control, and swap between them. The multiplayer mode allows for online co-op for up to four players.


== Development ==
In 2019, Tuque Games was developing a Dungeons & Dragons game in partnership with Wizards of the Coast. Wizards of the Coast acquired Tuque Games that October. Salvatore assisted the game's development and has been involved in the game's production since its inception. Local cooperative multiplayer was initially announced, though the feature was subsequently dropped by the developer, until it was confirmed that the feature would be available via a post-release patch. Dungeons & Dragons: Dark Alliance was officially announced with a teaser trailer shown during The Game Awards 2019 in December. The game was originally slated for release in 2020, but was later delayed to 2021. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, and Xbox Series X/S on 22 June 2021 and was simultaneously released on the Xbox Game Pass service. Koch Media published the retail version of the game.


=== Setting ===
In the Forgotten Realms campaign setting, Dungeons & Dragons: Dark Alliance is set after the 1988 novel The Crystal Shard, the first book in Salvatore's The Icewind Dale Trilogy, and the fourth book in the Legend of Drizzt series. The game takes place in the Icewind Dale region of Faerûn. On the connection, Salvatore said: "First of all, if you've read the books and you play the game, you'll probably get a more satisfying experience out of the game. [...] [The] game will bring more to the story than you've gotten from the books now. [...] If you're doing a video game, you're going to have to take some literary license and maybe not stick completely with it. [...] Little things like that don't bother me at all when you're talking about a video game—because your job, when you're making the video game, first and foremost, is to make sure that players are having fun, and they're writing their own story".
Both Dungeons & Dragons: Dark Alliance and Icewind Dale: Rime of the Frostmaiden (2020) are set in the Icewind Dale region, but in the canon timeline, the video game occurs before the tabletop adventure module. According to Dungeons & Dragons principal writer Chris Perkins: "We sat down with narrative designers for Dark Alliance, and we basically opened up a toy box, pulled out all the toys, and figured out how we were going to play with same toys. And so, there are places and foes and places that appear in Rime of the Frostmaiden that if you play Dark Alliance, see echoes of/similarities to. Each story is separate — the story of Rime of the Frost Maiden is completely separate from Dark Alliance, just using same locations. You get a sense of real history to this place [...]. Together, when you take the two things combined, you get bigger painting of Icewind Dale".


== Reception ==

Dungeons & Dragons: Dark Alliance received "mixed or average reviews" according to review aggregator Metacritic. IGN's Travis Northup stated:

But in all my years, I've seldom seen anyone roll a critical failure quite like Dungeons & Dragons: Dark Alliance, which manages to take all that potential and turn it into a joyless labor that's mind-numbingly repetitive, deeply lacking in storytelling, and absolutely overflowing with bugs.


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website (archived April 14, 2024)

The Jilin Ring Expressway (Chinese: 吉林绕城高速), designated as G1201  is an expressway in Northw Northwestern Chinese province of Jilin going around the city of Jilin.  This expressway is a branch of G12 Hunwu Expressway.


== Detailed Itinerary ==


== References ==

Formosa Island is an island in the River Thames in England at Cookham Lock near Cookham, Berkshire, with two smaller adjacent islands.
The island is one of the largest on the non-tidal river Thames with 50 acres (20 ha) of woodland. It can be reached by footbridge from Cookham. Most of the land on Formosa Island is owned by the John Lewis Partnership, and forms part of the Odney Club country club owned by the company. Formosa Island is between two of the four channels in the river at Cookham, the one closest to Cookham was once the mill stream to a paper mill at Cookham. The one on the other side leads to Odney Weir. The adjacent Mill Island has the lock channel on the other side. Beyond the lock channel is Sashes Island and the channel furthest from Cookham is Hedsor Water, the original navigation channel, which was blocked by the weir in 1830 when the lock was opened, causing loss of trade to then owner Lord Boston.


== See also ==
Islands in the River Thames


== References ==

Tanja Wedhorn (born 14 December 1971 in Witten) is a German actress.  She studied acting at the Berlin University of the Arts and lives in Berlin.  She has two sons.
Tanja Wedhorn became famous for her performance in the leading role of Germany's first telenovela Bianca – Wege zum Glück.  The show was broadcast in Germany in 2004 and 2005 by the public broadcasting station ZDF.
She received a Golden Romy in Austria in the category of Most Popular Actress in 2005.


== References ==

Shyam Singh Yadav (born 31 March 1954) is an Indian politician who was a Member of Parliament in the 17th Lok Sabha from Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh. He is a member of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). He was the chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee on Papers laid on the Table from 2019, till 2024. He was also the member of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Coal and Steel; Parliamentary Joint Committee on Offices of Profit; former member of Parliamentary General Purposes Committee (Lok Sabha); and former member of Parliamentary Consultative Committee of the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas. He is also a former PCS officer.
Yadav has represented India in international shooting events and has also coached the Indian shooting team at the Beijing Olympic Games 2008 and Melbourne Commonwealth Games 2006.


== Personal life ==
Shyam Singh Yadav was born on 31 March 1954 to father Uma Shankar Singh Yadav and mother Indrawati Yadav in Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh. He achieved his Bachelor of Science, Master of Science (1976) and LLB (1979) degrees from Allahabad University. He married Pushpa Yadav on 11 March 1986, with whom he has a son and a daughter. He is an advocate and agriculturalist by profession. He lives in Ranipatti village in Mariahu.


== Career ==
Yadav held various posts as a civil servant.
As a former civil servant, Yadav has worked in various capacities, including sub-divisional magistrate, municipal commissioner, special secretary and vice-chairman of different development authorities.
Yadav is also an ace shooter. He has participated in a number of shooting competitions at both national and international level. He was the Indian coach of rifle shooting and has also coached Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore. He coached the Indian shooting team at the Beijing Olympic Games 2008 and Melbourne Commonwealth Games 2006. Yadav is the President of Uttar Pradesh State Rifle Association and the Vice President of Uttar Pradesh Olympic Association. He has also been the Treasurer of the National Rifle Association of India (NRAI). Was a member of Advisory Board of Censor Board in Mumbai from 2016-2019.


== Awards and achievements ==
Laxman Awardee U.P. Government 2000


== References ==


== External links ==
Official biographical sketch in Parliament of India website

An orphan drug is a pharmaceutical agent that is developed to treat certain rare medical conditions. An orphan drug would not be profitable to produce without government assistance, due to the small population of patients affected by the conditions. The conditions that orphan drugs are used to treat are referred to as orphan diseases. The assignment of orphan status to a disease and to drugs developed to treat it is a matter of public policy that depends on the legislation (if there is any) of the country.
Designation of a drug as an orphan drug has yielded medical breakthroughs that might not otherwise have been achieved, due to the economics of drug research and development. For example, in the U.S. and the EU, it is easier to gain marketing approval for an orphan drug. There may be other financial incentives, such as an extended period of exclusivity, during which the producer has sole rights to market the drug. All are intended to encourage development of drugs which would otherwise lack sufficient profit motive to attract corporate research budgets and personnel.


== Definition ==


=== United States ===
According to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), an orphan drug is defined as one "intended for the treatment, prevention or diagnosis of a rare disease or condition, which is one that affects less than 200,000 persons in the US" (which equates to approximately 6 cases per 10,000 population) "or meets cost recovery provisions of the act". 


=== Europe ===
In the European Union (EU), the European Medicines Agency (EMA) defines a drug as "orphan" if it is intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of a life-threatening or chronically and seriously debilitating condition affecting not more than 5 in 10,000 EU people. EMA also qualifies a drug as orphan if – without incentives – it would be unlikely that marketing the drug in the EU would generate sufficient benefit for the affected people and for the drug manufacturer to justify the investment. 


=== Japan ===
In Japan, drugs and medical devices are given the designation as an orphan drug or device based on the Act of Securing Quality, Efficacy, Safety of Pharmaceuticals, Medical Devices, Regenerative or Cellular Therapy Products, Gene Therapy Products, and Cosmetics if they are intended for use in less than 50,000 patients in Japan for which there is a high medical need.


== Global statistics ==
As of 2014, there were 281 marketed orphan drugs and more than 400 orphan-designated drugs in clinical trials. More than 60% of orphan drugs were biologics. The U.S. dominated development of orphan drugs, with more than 300 trials, followed by Europe. Cancer treatment was the indication in more than 30% of orphan drug trials.

Number of orphan drugs in clinical trials: 40
Number of orphan drugs in phase 2 trial: 231
Number of orphan drugs in U.S. clinical trials: 350 in the pipeline from research until registration


== Effect on investment, sales and profit ==
According to Thomson Reuters in their 2012 publication "The Economic Power of Orphan Drugs", there has been increased investment in orphan drug research and development, partly due to the U.S. Orphan Drug Act of 1983 (ODA) and similar acts in other regions of the world driven by "high-profile philanthropic funding".
According to a 2012 article in Drug Discovery Today, the years 2001 to 2011 were the "most productive period in the history of orphan drug development, in terms of average annual orphan drug designations and orphan drug approvals". For the same decade the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of the orphan drugs was an "impressive 25.8%, compared to only 20.1% for a matched control group of non-orphan drugs". By 2012, the market for orphan drugs was worth US$637 million, compared with US$638 million for a control group of non-orphan drugs.
By 2012,

the revenue-generating potential of orphan drugs [was] as great as for non-orphan drugs, even though patient populations for rare diseases are significantly smaller. Moreover, we suggest that orphan drugs have greater profitability when considered in the full context of developmental drivers, including government financial incentives, smaller clinical trial sizes, shorter clinical trial times and higher rates of regulatory success.
According to a 2014 report, the orphan drug market has become increasingly lucrative for a number of reasons. The cost of clinical trials for orphan drugs is substantially lower than for other diseases because trial sizes are naturally much smaller than for more diseases with larger numbers of patients. Small clinical trials and minimal competition place orphan agents at an advantage in regulatory review.
Tax incentives reduce the cost of development. On average the cost per patient for orphan drugs is "six times that of non-orphan drugs, a clear indication of their pricing power". The cost of per-person outlays are large and are expected to increase with wider use of public subsidies.
The 2014 Orphan Drug report stated that the percentage of orphan drug sales as part of all prescription drug sales had been increasing at a rapid rate. The report projected a total of US$176 billion by 2020. Although orphan disease populations are the smallest, the cost of per-patient outlays among them are the largest and are expected to increase as more people with rare diseases become eligible for subsidies – in the U.S., for example, through the Affordable Care Act.


== Legislation ==
Orphan drugs generally follow the same regulatory development path as any other pharmaceutical product, in which testing focuses on pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, dosing, stability, safety and efficacy. However, some statistical burdens are lessened to maintain development momentum. For example, orphan drug regulations generally acknowledge the fact that it may not be possible to test 1,000 patients in a phase III clinical trial if fewer than that number are affected by the disease.
Government intervention on behalf of orphan drug development takes several forms:

Tax incentives
Exclusivity (enhanced patent protection and marketing rights)
Research subsidies
Creating a government-run enterprise to engage in research and development as in a Crown corporation
A 2015 study of "34 key Canadian stakeholders, including drug regulators, funders, scientists, policy experts, pharmaceutical industry representatives, and patient advocates" investigated factors behind the pharmaceutical industry growing interest in "niche markets" such as orphan drugs.


=== United States ===
The Orphan Drug Act (ODA) of January 1983, passed in the United States, with lobbying from the National Organization for Rare Disorders and many other organizations, is meant to encourage pharmaceutical companies to develop drugs for diseases that have a small market. Under the ODA drugs, vaccines, and diagnostic agents would qualify for orphan status if they were intended to treat a disease affecting fewer than 200,000 American citizens. Under the ODA orphan drug sponsors qualify for seven-year FDA-administered market Orphan Drug Exclusivity (ODE), "tax credits of up to 50% of R&D costs, R&D grants, waived FDA fees, protocol assistance and may get clinical trial tax incentives.
In the U.S., orphan drug designation means that the sponsor qualifies for certain benefits, but it does not mean the drug is safe, effective or legal.
In 2002, the Rare Diseases Act was signed into law. It amended the Public Health Service Act to establish the Office of Rare Diseases. It also increased funding for the development of treatments for people with rare diseases.


=== European Union ===
In 2000, the European Union (EU) enacted similar legislation, Regulation(EC) No 141/2000, which refers to drugs developed to treat rare diseases to as "orphan medicinal products". The EU's definition of an orphan condition is broader than that of the US, in that it also covers some tropical diseases that are primarily found in developing nations. Orphan drug status granted by the European Commission gives marketing exclusivity in the EU for 10 years after approval. The EU's legislation is administered by the Committee on Orphan Medicinal Products of the European Medicines Agency (EMA).
In late 2007 the FDA and EMA agreed to use a common application process for both agencies to make it easier for manufacturers to apply for orphan drug status but, while continuing two separate approval processes.


=== Other countries ===
Legislation has been implemented by Japan, Singapore, and Australia that offers subsidies and other incentives to encourage the development of drugs that treat orphan diseases.


=== Numbers of new drugs ===
Under the ODA and EU legislation, many orphan drugs have been developed, including drugs to treat glioma, multiple myeloma, cystic fibrosis, phenylketonuria, snake venom poisoning, and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura.
The Pharmaceutical Executive opines that the "ODA is nearly universally acknowledged to be a success".
Before the US Congress enacted the ODA in 1983, only 38 drugs were approved in the US specifically to treat orphan diseases. In the US, from January 1983 to June 2004, 249 orphan drugs received marketing authorization and 1,129 received different orphan drug designations, compared to fewer than ten such products in the decade prior to 1983. From 1983 until May 2010, the FDA approved 353 orphan drugs and granted orphan designations to 2,116 compounds. As of 2010, 200 of the roughly 7,000 officially designated orphan diseases have become treatable.
Critics have questioned whether orphan drug legislation was the real cause of this increase, claiming that many of the new drugs were for disorders which were already being researched anyway, and would have had drugs developed regardless of the legislation, and whether the ODA has truly stimulated the production of non-profitable drugs; the act also has been criticised for allowing some pharmaceutical companies to make a large profit off drugs which have a small market but sell for a high price.
While the European Medicines Agency grants orphan drugs market access in all member states, in practice, they only reach the market when a member state decides that its national health system will reimburse for the drug. For example, in 2008, 44 orphan drugs reached the market in the Netherlands, 35 in Belgium, and 28 in Sweden, while in 2007, 35 such drugs reached the market in France and 23 in Italy.
Though not technically an orphan disease, research and development into the treatment for AIDS has been heavily linked to the Orphan Drug Act. In the beginning of the AIDS epidemic the lack of treatment for the disease was often accredited to a believed lack of commercial base for a medication linked to HIV infection. This encouraged the FDA to use the Orphan Drug Act to help bolster research in this field, and by 1995 13 of the 19 drugs approved by the FDA to treat AIDS had received orphan drug designation, with 10 receiving marketing rights. These are in addition to the 70 designated orphan drugs designed to treat other HIV related illnesses.


== Examples for selected diseases ==


=== Cystic fibrosis ===
In the 1980s, people with cystic fibrosis rarely lived beyond their early teens. Drugs like Pulmozyme and tobramycin, both developed with aid from the ODA, revolutionized treatment for cystic fibrosis patients by significantly improving their quality of life and extending their life expectancies. Now, cystic fibrosis patients often survive into their thirties and some into their fifties.


=== Familial hypercholesterolemia ===
The 1985 Nobel Prize for medicine went to two researchers for their work related to familial hypercholesterolemia, which causes large and rapid increases in cholesterol levels. Their research led to the development of statin drugs which are now commonly used to treat high cholesterol.


=== Wilson's disease ===
Penicillamine was developed to treat Wilson's disease, a rare hereditary disease that can lead to a fatal accumulation of copper in the body. This drug was later found to be effective in treating arthritis. Bis-choline tetrathiomolybdate is currently under investigation as a therapy against Wilson's disease.


=== Phospholipase 2G6-associated neurodegeneration ===
In 2017, FDA granted RT001 orphan drug designation in the treatment of phospholipase 2G6-associated neurodegeneration (PLAN).


=== Transthyretin-related hereditary amyloidosis ===
The FDA granted Patisiran (Onpattro) orphan drug status and breakthrough therapy designation due to its novel mechanism involving RNA therapy to block the production of an abnormal form of transthyretin. Patisiran received full FDA approval in 2018 and its RNA lipid nanoparticle drug delivery system was later used in the Pfizer–BioNTech COVID-19 vaccine and Moderna RNA vaccines.


== Activism, research centers ==
The Center for Orphan Drug Research at the University of Minnesota College of Pharmacy helps small companies with insufficient in-house expertise and resources in drug synthesis, formulation, pharmacometrics, and bio-analysis.
The Keck Graduate Institute Center for Rare Disease Therapies (CRDT) in Claremont, California, supports projects to revive potential orphan drugs whose development has stalled by identifying barriers to commercialization, such as problems with formulation and bio-processing.
Numerous advocacy groups such as the National Organization for Rare Disorders, Global Genes Project, Children's Rare Disease Network, Abetalipoproteinemia Collaboration Foundation, Zellweger Baby Support Network, and the Friedreich's Ataxia Research Alliance have been founded in order to advocate on behalf of patients with rare diseases with a particular emphasis on diseases that affect children.


== Cost ==
According to a 2015 report published by EvaluatePharma, the economics of orphan drugs mirrors the economics of the pharmaceutical market as a whole but has a few very large differences. The market for orphan drugs is by definition very small, but while the customer base is drastically smaller the cost of research and development is very much the same as for non orphan drugs. This, the producers have claimed, causes them to charge extremely high amounts for treatment, sometimes as high as $700,000 a year, as in the case of Spinraza (Biogen), FDA approved in December 2016 for spinal muscular atrophy, placing a large amount of stress on insurance companies and patients. An analysis of 12 orphan drugs that were approved in the US between 1990 and 2000 estimated a price reduction of on average 50% upon loss of marketing exclusivity, with a range of price reductions from 14% to 95%.
Governments have implemented steps to reduce high research and development cost with subsidies and other forms of financial assistance. The largest assistance are tax breaks which can be as high as 50% of research and development costs. Orphan drug manufacturers are also able to take advantage of the small customer base to cut cost on clinical trials due to the small number of cases to have smaller trials which reduces cost. These smaller clinical trials also allow orphan drugs to move to market faster as the average time to receive FDA approval for an orphan drug is 10 months compared to 13 months for non-orphan drugs. This is especially true in the market for cancer drugs, as a 2011 study found that between 2004 and 2010 orphan drug trials were more likely to be smaller and less randomized than their non-orphan counterparts, but still had a higher FDA approval rate, with 15 orphan cancer drugs being approved, while only 12 non-orphan drugs were approved. This allows manufactures to get cost to the point that it is economically feasible to produce these treatments. The subsidies can total up to $30 million per fiscal year in the United States alone.

By 2015, industry analysts and academic researchers agreed, that the sky-high price of orphan drugs, such as eculizumab, was not related to research, development and manufacturing costs. Their price is arbitrary and they have become more profitable than traditional medicines.Public resources went into understanding the molecular basis of the disease, public resources went into the technology to make antibodies and finally, Alexion, to their credit, kind of picked up the pieces.


== Public funding ==


=== Evaluation criteria ===
By 2007 the use of economic evaluation methods regarding public-funding of orphan drugs, using estimates of the incremental cost-effectiveness, for example, became more established internationally. The QALY has often been used in cost-utility analysis to calculate the ratio of cost to QALYs saved for a particular health care intervention. By 2008 the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) in England and Wales, for example, operated with a threshold range of £20,000–30,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). By 2005 doubts were raised about the use of economic evaluations in orphan drugs. By 2008 most of the orphan drugs appraised had cost-effectiveness thresholds "well in excess of the 'accepted' level and would not be reimbursed according to conventional criteria". As early as 2005 McCabe et al. argued that rarity should not have a premium and orphan drugs should be treated like other pharmaceuticals in general. Drummond et al. argued that the social value of health technologies should also be included in the assessment along with the estimation of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.


=== Abuse potential ===

The very large incentives given to pharmaceutical companies to produce orphan drugs have led to the impression that the financial support afforded to make these drugs possible is akin to abuse. Because drugs can be used to treat multiple conditions, companies can take drugs that were filed with their government agency as orphan drugs to receive financial assistance, and then market it to a wide population to increase their profit margin. For example AstraZeneca's cholesterol drug Crestor was filed as a treatment for the rare disease pediatric familial hypercholesterolemia. After the drug was approved for orphan drug designation, and AstraZeneca had received tax breaks and other advantages, AstraZeneca later applied and received FDA approval for the drug to be used to treat cholesterol in all diabetics.


=== NICE ===
The UK's National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) can pay from £100,000 to £300,000 per QALY (Quality Adjusted Life Year) for treatments of "very rare conditions". This is compared to under £20,000 for non-orphan drugs.
In 2015, NICE held consultations with "patient groups, the Department of Health, companies, learned societies, charities and researchers" regarding the appraisal of medicines and other technologies. There was a call for more research into new processes, including:

the model of pharmaceutical research and development, the expectations that companies and patient groups have about how risk and reward is shared between the industry and a publicly funded NHS, and in the arrangements for commissioning expensive new treatments.


== See also ==
Rare disease
Drug development
European Organization for Rare Diseases
Supplementary protection certificate


== References ==


== External links ==

Drug Information Association (DIA)
EVENT: DIA/FDA Orphan Drug Designation Workshop November 2010 Archived 2010-10-28 at the Wayback Machine
European Commission - The Orphan drugs strategy
List of European Orphan Drugs
USA Food and Drug Administration: The Orphan Drug Act (as amended)
US FDA List of Orphan Designations and Approvals

Drumline is a 2002 American coming-of-age teen comedy-drama film directed by Charles Stone III. The screenplay, which was inspired by the Southwest Dekalb High School Marching Panthers in Decatur, Georgia, was written by Tina Gordon Chism and Shawn Schepps. The film follows a young drummer from New York, played by Nick Cannon, who enters the fictional Atlanta A&T University and bumps heads with the leader of his new school's drum section. Zoe Saldaña, and Orlando Jones co-star.
The film received generally positive reviews from critics, with most of them praising the musical bands' overall performances. It was a success at the box office, earning over $56 million in the U.S., and almost $1.2 million in foreign markets.
A direct sequel Drumline: A New Beat, premiered on VH1 on October 27, 2014.


== Plot ==
Upon graduating from high school, Devon Miles heads to Atlanta, Georgia to attend Atlanta A&T University, a historically black college that takes enormous pride in its marching band. Devon was personally invited to attend on a full scholarship by Dr. Lee, head of the band, for his prodigious talents. The A&T band separates itself from its competitors by requiring all members to read music, by focusing on various styles of music rather than what is currently popular on the radio, and by dedication to the teamwork emphasized "one band, one sound" concept. Preseason band camp is physically and mentally challenging, designed to push members past their limits. At the end of preseason, the musicians audition for spots on the field, and Devon is the only freshman to make P1, the highest-level player. Devon finds time to romance an upperclassman dancer, Laila.
Sean, Devon's percussion leader, grows weary of Devon's cockiness and challenges him to take a solo in his first game, believing he will panic and be embarrassed. Sean is shocked and subsequently humiliated when Devon takes the solo, upsetting Dr. Lee. As punishment, Dr. Lee orders Sean to clean the drums. This sets up some tension in the drumline which is exacerbated when Dr. Lee is told by school president Wagner to change his focus from music to entertainment or risk losing funding. Lee does not want to give Devon more playing time because of his lack of respect and selfish attitude. Upon learning he lied on his college application about knowing how to read music, Devon is demoted to P4 by Dr. Lee until he learns, but reluctantly gives him his P1 spot back when Wagner pressures Dr. Lee. Devon inflames a fight with a visiting band at A&T's homecoming game and is expelled from the band by Dr. Lee. The fight also strains his relationship with Laila, as she is embarrassed to introduce him to her parents, who attended the game.
Devon contacts A&T's rival school Morris Brown College, to discuss playing for their band next season. Mr. Wade, Brown's band leader, says that Devon does not need to know how to read music and will likely get a full scholarship and a good position on the drumline. When Wade wants to know what Dr. Lee is planning for the BET Big Southern Classic (a large competition of college bands), Devon realizes Mr. Wade was trying to use him to steal A&T's performance plans, and that his heart and honor are still with the A&T band. He rejects the scholarship offer from Brown and returns to A&T.
Though Devon is still not playing for the band, he refuses to give up his drumming. After receiving cassette tapes from his estranged father, Ray, Devon gets inspiration for new drum arrangements. As Devon goes to present these ideas to the band, he and Sean have a confrontation that clears the air and they begin to work together. The two present their idea for an entrance cadence to Dr. Lee who decides to use them for the Classic. Devon helps the band prepare for the Classic and patches up his relationship with Laila. In appreciation for all his help getting the band ready for the Classic and impressed with Devon's maturing and growth, Dr. Lee tells Devon he can return to the band the following school year.
At the Classic, the bands perform a mixture of popular songs. Morris Brown's band has rapper Petey Pablo perform during their routine. A&T is not fazed by this and performs their mix of retro and current sounds. A tie results in the Morris Brown and A&T drumlines face off. Dr. Lee allows Devon to play for this face-off, showing his faith in Devon's improved character. Morris Brown goes first and A&T responds. Morris Brown's second cadence includes their snares moving forward and playing on the A&T drums (the same move that incited the fight at A&T's homecoming game), then throwing down their sticks. The A&T line holds their composure in the face of the insult. They play their cadence and, in the middle, throw down their sticks, mimicking the Morris Brown actions, but then the entire line pulls out another set of sticks and continues playing. They end their routine in the faces of the Morris Brown drumline, but instead of playing on their drums, the line all drop their sticks onto the other drumline's drums. The judges award the win to A&T.


== Cast ==


== Production ==
Director Stone originally wanted Khalil Kain for the role of Sean. The role of Devon came down between Cannon and Lee Thompson Young. T.I. and Lil Wayne also auditioned. The role of Laila came down to Saldaña and Kerry Washington.


== Release ==


=== Home media ===
The film was released on VHS and in fullscreen and widescreen editions on DVD April 15, 2003. A "special edition" DVD version of the film was later released on December 6, 2011. The film was released in the Blu-ray format on January 27, 2009.


== Critical reception ==
On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 82% based on reviews from 84 critics. The site's consensus states: "Essentially a sports movie with drums, the energetic Drumline somehow manages to make the familiar seem fresh." At Metacritic, the film has averaged a 63 out of 100 rating from critics, based on 28 reviews. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film a rare "A+" grade.
At Yahoo! Movies, the film has been given a B average based on 14 reviews from critics, and a B− by over 30,000 users. The film was given 3½ stars at Allmovie, where reviewer Josh Ralske gave positive note to the performances of the main cast and Stone's direction but still called the plot "formulaic."
Natasha Grant at BlackFilm.com called the movie "irresistible," "wonderfully crafted," and "fascinating." For the Chicago Sun-Times, Roger Ebert gave the film 3 out of 4 stars, giving the film credit as being "entertaining" and "admirable." At the Los Angeles Times, Kenneth Turan believed the film to be entertaining, although he states that the plot is "way-familiar." Writing for The New York Times, A. O. Scott, while feeling the movie had a "skimpy, hectic plot," still believed the film to be "bouncy, boisterous and charming," and the play of the marching bands to be "downright thrilling." Mike Clark at USA Today awarded the film two and a half of four stars, feeling the film to be conventional but competent, and giving particular positive note to J. Anthony Brown, Orlando Jones, and Leonard Roberts performances. One of the film's negative reviews came courtesy of David Levine at FilmCritic.com. Giving the film 2.5 out of 5 stars, Levine called the screenplay "standard formula" and "predictable," and went on to say that it was unfunny as well as uninspiring, though he gave praise to the precision and artistry of the marching bands.


=== Awards and nominations ===


== Soundtrack ==

The film's soundtrack was also executive produced by Dallas Austin. Released December 10, 2002, it reached the number 61 spot on Billboard's Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart, number 10 on the Top Soundtracks list, and peaked at 133 on The Billboard 200 in 2003. The tracks "I Want a Girl Like You," "Blowin' Me Up (With Her Love)," and "Club Banger" were all released as singles, with JC Chasez' "Blowin' Me Up..." obtaining the highest level of success, reaching the number 24 spot on the Canadian Singles Chart, number 17 on the Top 40 Tracks chart, and number 14 on the Top 40 Mainstream chart.

(*): Indicates songs were released as singles


== Sequel ==
A direct sequel Drumline: A New Beat, premiered on VH1 on October 27, 2014. Cannon reprises his role as Devon, albeit as a supporting character rather than the protagonist. Roberts also reprises his role of Sean Taylor.


== See also ==

List of American films of 2002
Drumline
Drummer
HBCU
Marching band
Honda Battle of the Bands, the real-life inspiration for the Big Southern Classic in the film


== References ==


== External links ==
Drumline at Box Office Mojo
Drumline at IMDb 
Drumline at Metacritic 
Drumline at Rotten Tomatoes

James M. Anderson is an American professor of medicine and cell biology and is a Chief of Section of Digestive Diseases at the Yale School of Medicine. Anderson is also a director of the Division of Program Coordination, Planning, and Strategic Initiatives at the National Institutes of Health.


== Education ==
Anderson received his B.S. in biology from Yale College in 1974 and five years later got a Ph.D. from Harvard University in the same field. He holds an M.D. from Harvard Medical School which he obtained in 1983.


== Career ==
In 2002, Anderson became a professor and Chair of the Department of Cell and Molecular Physiology in the School of Medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In this capacity, he served on the advisory group for the UNC Building Interdisciplinary Research Careers in Women's Health (BIRCWH) program.
In September 2010, Anderson was appointed by Francis Collins as the director of the Division of Program Coordination, Planning, and Strategic Initiatives.
Anderson has clinical experience in Internal Medicine and Hepatology and is considered among the top authorities in the world in his primary research field of tight junctions and paracellular transport. Anderson researches the paracellular barrier in a laboratory located in the intramural research program of the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. He has been a principal investigator on NIH grants for almost twenty years. He has authored or co-authored over 180 scientific articles, reviews, and book chapters.
In 2018 he helped fund the invention of the Human Biomolecular Atlas Program (HuBMAP).


== Awards and honors ==
Anderson is an elected Fellow of the American Gastroenterological Association and is an elected member of the American Society for Clinical Investigation and the Association of American Physicians. Anderson has received several awards including the 2007 Takeda Distinguished Research Award and the Walter B. Cannon Award, the most prestigious award bestowed by the American Physiological Society. 


== References ==


== External links ==
James M. Anderson publications indexed by Google Scholar

Shahanshah is a title given to the Iranian Shahs (kings/emperors), meaning King of Kings (Shah of Shahs).
Shahanshah or Shahenshah may also refer to:

Shahanshah, Lorestan, a village in Iran
Shahanshah (Shirvanshah), the 22nd Shirvanshah
Shahenshah (1953 film), a 1953 Indian Hindi-language historical drama film by Amiya Chakravarty, starring Ranjan and Kamini Kaushal
Shahenshah (1988 film), a 1988 Indian Hindi-language action film by Tinnu Anand, starring Amitabh Bachchan in the title role
Amitabh Bachchan (born 1942), Indian film actor, nicknamed the "Shahenshah of Bollywood"
Shahen-Shah, a 1988 album by Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan
Shahenshah (2020 film), a 2020 Bangladeshi romantic action film by Shamim Ahamed Roni, featuring Shakib Khan in the title role
Shahenshah (novel), a 1970 Marathi-language novel by Indian writer N. S. Inamdar
al-Afdal Shahanshah, Fatimid vizier in Cairo
Shahanshah, son of Muhammad III of Alamut


== See also ==
Shah (disambiguation)
Padishah (disambiguation)
Badshah (disambiguation)
King of Kings (disambiguation), literal translation of shahanshah
List of shahanshahs of the Sasanian Empire
List of monarchs of Persia
Iranian monarchy

The 1951 Canadian census was a detailed enumeration of the Canadian population. The total population count was 14,009,429, representing a 21.8% increase over the 1941 census population count of 11,506,655. The 1951 census was the ninth comprehensive decennial census since Canadian Confederation on July 1, 1867. 
The previous census was the Northwest Provinces of Alberta, Saskatchewan, and Manitoba 1946 census and the following census was the 1956 census – the first quinquennial, rather than decennial, nationwide census.
This was the first census to include Newfoundland, having joined Confederation only two years prior.
Canada's Statistics Act legislation does not permit the release of personal information until 92 years have elapsed. Detailed information from this census is not due for release until 2042.


== Population by province ==

Ontario added the largest number of new residents since the 1941 census, while British Columbia saw the highest growth rate among the provinces, becoming the first western province to reach one million inhabitants. Saskatchewan experienced a second consecutive decade of population decline, falling behind both Alberta and British Columbia in size.
Newfoundland, where the previous census was in 1945, recorded a 12.3% increase in population.


== Population by religion ==


== Population by Ethnicity ==


== See also ==
Population and housing censuses by country


== References ==

Mangalia Marina is a harbour for yachts and small boats located in Mangalia, Romania on the Black Sea. It is the most modern tourist harbour in Romania and sits on the Port of Mangalia.


== Overview ==
Mangalia Marina was built between 2006 and 2008 with the help of a joint grant of 4,071,365.77 euros from the European Union and a City Council and City Hall of Mangalia contribution of 651,418.52 euro. The marina is a one-day sailing distance to the Port of Varna in Bulgaria, a two-day trip from the Port of Odessa in Ukraine, and a few hours from the Port of Constanţa and the Danube Delta. Conditions are ideal for mooring and vessel maintenance, and can accommodate 146 moored vessels. Larger boats can follow coastal shipping routes along the Istanbul-Varna-Mangalia-Odessa-Yalta perimeter.
Together with the Varna Marina from Bulgaria, the Mangalia Marina co-hosts the BMW Black Sea International Regatta, which is organized annually by Romania Yacht Club, Bulgaria LZ Yachting 1991 and Odessa International Yacht Club.


== Gallery ==


== References ==

Ivan Vorobyov may refer to:

Ivan Alekseevich Vorobyov (1921-1991), Soviet air force commander, twice Hero of the Soviet Union
Ivan Dmitrievich Vorobyov (1789-1851), shipbuilder of the Russian Empire, Mayor General
Ivan Ivanovich Vorobyov (1908-1967), Soviet military commander, Hero of the Soviet Union
Ivan Petrovich Vorobyov (born 1988), Russian judoka

"Sleepless" is a song performed by Swedish singer Eric Saade. It is the first single from Saade's first album, Masquerade, and was released on 21 December 2009 worldwide. It reached the top 50 in Sweden.


== Charts ==


== Release history ==


== References ==


== External links ==
Eric Saade Official Website

Sever Hall is an academic building at Harvard University designed by the American architect H. H. Richardson and built in the late 1870s. It is located in Harvard Yard in Cambridge, Massachusetts. It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1970, recognized as one of Richardson's mature masterpieces.


== History ==
Sever Hall was built from 1878 to 1880 with a gift from Anne Sever in honor of her deceased husband, James Warren Sever. It was designed as an academic building with classrooms, lecture halls, rooms for professors, etc., in a style now known as Richardsonian Romanesque though in red brick rather than stone.
The building is 176 feet and 4 inches long, by 74 feet and 4 inches wide, with a height to cornice of about 50 feet, above which the hipped roof rises a further 30 feet. It is three stories tall, with a fourth story set within the roof. The main facade (west side) features two round bays set symmetrically about an entrance within a deeply recessed semi-circular archway. The east facade is similar but with a simpler, rectangular entrance. North and south facades are relatively austere expanses punctuated with windows.
About 1.3 million bricks were used in its construction. Of these, some 100,000 form the exterior facades, which feature 60 different varieties of red molded brick, as well as elaborate brick carvings. Blood mortar was used as a joiner originally, though polybond compounds have been used in restoration efforts since 1967.
The archway admitting entrance into the west facade possesses an acoustical oddity. Whispering directly into the bricks of the archway, while standing very close to one side of the arch, can be heard clearly on the other side of the arch (approximately twelve feet away).
In recent years, there has been renewed interest in Sever Hall among architectural historians, due to Robert Venturi's comment that it is his "favorite building in America." He told Boston Globe critic Robert Campbell: "I have come to understand the validity of architecture as generic shelter rather than abstract-expressive sculpture, and as flexible loft for accommodating evolving functions. ... And then I love Sever Hall also for its aesthetic tension deriving from its vital details. I could stand and look at it all day. Thank you, H.H. Richardson."


== Usage ==
Sever has small classrooms and larger lecture halls, so it is mostly used as a general-purpose classroom building for humanities courses especially small sections, beginning language courses, and Harvard Extension School classes. Grossman Library, a non-circulating library serving Extension School students, was located on the third floor until Extension School library services were integrated into Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences libraries in the late 2010s. The fourth floor of Sever, unnoticed by many of its students as the central stairwell does not lead to it, contains offices for Harvard's Visual and Environmental Studies department. In the evenings and on weekends student groups hold meetings or run annual events. One of Sever's notable annual events is Vericon, run during the break between semesters by the Harvard-Radcliffe Science-Fiction Association, though it has not been hosted since 2016.


== Gallery ==


== See also ==
List of National Historic Landmarks in Massachusetts
National Register of Historic Places listings in Cambridge, Massachusetts


== Bibliography ==

Moses King, The Harvard Register, Harvard University, 1880, page 35.
Roger H. Clark and Michael Pause, Precedents in Architecture, New York: Van Nostrand Reinhold, 1985. ISBN 0-442-21668-8.
Jeffrey Karl Ochsner, H. H. Richardson, Complete Architectural Works, Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press, 1982.


== References ==

The Reliquary of the Santo Corporale (Holy Corporal) of Bolsena is a medieval artwork made by Sienese goldsmith Ugolino di Vieri in 1337-1338. The reliquary is made of gold-plated silver and enamel and is c.139 cm high. The reliquary was recently transferred to the Museo dell'Opera del Duomo di Orvieto (MODO or Museum of the Works of the Cathedral) from the Cathedral of Orvieto itself where it had been from the time of its creation.


== Description ==
The reliquary of the Santo Corporale is considered to be one of the most important 14th century metal works from Siena. It is a gothic miniature inspired by northern European models showing the facade of the Orvieto Cathedral. The reliquary contains three vertical sections like the cathedral facade, but its typanum are much more acute. In addition, it contains a series of pinnacles surmounted by golden statues; this indicates a northern European influence as these details are generally not part of Italian architecture. Such influences from north of the Alps can frequently be seen in Italian gold and silver work of this era. Additional statues can be found at the base of the reliquary and on top is a jeweled cross.
The reliquary is considered to be important artistically also because it contains the earliest extant painted translucent enamels. Thirty-two scenes in painted enamels represent the Stories of the Corporal and the Passion of Christ, created with a very contemporary style. Elaborate architectural sections, moving gothic lines, and great attention to fine detail show a strong affinity to panel painting of the era, including to artists like Simone Martini as well as the contemporary artists Pietro and Ambrogio Lorenzetti. With a taste even more markedly gothic it is a fundamental example of pictorial art of the Sienese school. Blue is the dominant background color from which stand out points of brilliant yellow, green, and red which render the scenes perfectly legibile.
The reliquary was created to house a linen liturgical cloth, a corporal, onto which appeared the blood of Christ from a consecrated host, and it was designed to house also the host itself. This event is reported to have occurred during a Mass celebrated in Bolsena by a skeptical Bohemian priest in late 1263 or 1264.


== Image gallery ==


== References ==


== Bibliography ==
P. Dal Poggetto, Ugolino di Vieri: gli smalti di Orvieto, Firenze 1965.


== Related links ==
Sienese School
Corporal of Bolsena
Duomo di Orvieto

Niu Lizhi (born 1966) is a Chinese surgeon who specializes in minimally invasive cryosurgery for cancers. In 1996, he graduated from the Fourth Military Medical University with a doctoral degree in Thoracic & Cardiac Surgery.
Lizhi is the president of Guangzhou Fuda Cancer Hospital and vice president of the International Society of Cryosurgery. He is the supervisor of the master's degree course in Jinan University. He focuses on the treatment of pancreatic cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer, renal cancer, thyroid cancer, peritoneal cancer and other solid tumors.  Niu Lizhi and his team have performed nearly ten thousand cases of cryosurgery.
Lizhi's patients aged from four-year-old child to 94-year-old senior, ranking from Minister, celebrities, to ordinary people and patients with rare diseases like Huang Chuncai, or Gurli.


== Social position ==
Vice President, International Society of Cryosurgery, (ISC)
Vice President, Asian Society of Cryosurgery


== Books (edited and written) ==
Cryosurgery for Cancer. Shanghai science and technology education publishing, Shanghai 2007. (in Chinese)
Modern Cryosurgery for Cancer, World Scientific Publishing, Singapore 2012
New Technique of Cancer Ablation Irreversible Electroporation, Shanghai Science and Technology Lecture Publishing, Shanghai, 2014 (in Chinese)


== References ==


== External links ==
Article title

Everly John "Jack" Workman (July 2, 1899, Loudonville, Ohio – December 27, 1982, Santa Barbara, California) was an American atmospheric physicist, known for the Workman-Reynolds effect,
 discovered in 1950 by him and his colleague Stephen E. Reynolds, State Engineer of New Mexico from 1955 to 1990.


== Education and career ==
E. John Workman graduated in 1924 with a bachelor's degree from Whitman College. In his graduating class were Walter Brattain, Walker Bleakney, and Vladimir Rojansky. Workman received his Ph.D. in 1930 from the University of Virginia. His Ph.D. thesis was published in Physical Review. As an NRC Fellow, during the years from 1930 to 1933 he worked at the Bartol Research Foundation of the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia and then at Caltech in Pasadena. From 1933 to 1946 he was a professor in the physics department of the University of New Mexico (UNM) and in his third year there became the head of the department. During those years he was often on leave of absence from his academic duties so that he could carry out specific research projects. In 1936 he was elected a Fellow of the American Physical Society. In 1941 the United States Government appointed him Director of Research Projects.
In 1946 Workman resigned from the University of New Mexico (UNM) in a dispute with the UNM's new president and was hired by the New Mexico School of Mines (which years later was renamed the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology). Shortly after being hired, Workman became the interim president of the New Mexico School of Mines and after three years in the interim presidency became the tenured president. He presided over the construction of the Langmuir Laboratory for Atmospheric Research on a site on South Baldy at an altitude of 3240 meters in the Magdalena Mountains. The construction of the laboratory was finished in the summer of 1963.
In 1965 he retired from the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology in order to help establish the University of Hawaiʻi at Hilo's Cloud Physics Laboratory. In 1970 he retired as director of the Cloud Physics Laboratory and went to live in Santa Barbara, where he died in 1982.


== Selected publications ==
Workman, E. J. (1930). "A New Method of Measuring the Variation of the Specific Heats (cp) of Gases with Pressure". Physical Review. 36 (6): 1083–1090. Bibcode:1930PhRv...36.1083W. doi:10.1103/PhysRev.36.1083.
—— (1931). "The Variation of the Specific Heats (Cp) of Oxygen, Nitrogen and Hydrogen with Pressure". Physical Review. 37 (10): 1345–1355. Bibcode:1931PhRv...37.1345W. doi:10.1103/PhysRev.37.1345.
—— (1933). "Secondary Effects in Ionization by Hard Gamma-Rays". Physical Review. 43 (11): 859–870. Bibcode:1933PhRv...43..859W. doi:10.1103/PhysRev.43.859.
——; Beams, J. W.; Snoddy, L. B. (1936). "Photographic Study of Lightning". Physics. 7 (10): 375–379. Bibcode:1936Physi...7..375W. doi:10.1063/1.1745344.
Holzer, R. E.; ——; Snoddy, L. B. (1938). "Photographic Study of Lightning". Journal of Applied Physics. 9 (2): 134–138. Bibcode:1938JAP.....9..134H. doi:10.1063/1.1710395.
Holzer, R. E.; —— (1939). "Photographs of Unusual Discharges Occurring During Thunderstorms". Journal of Applied Physics. 10 (9): 659–662. Bibcode:1939JAP....10..659H. doi:10.1063/1.1707359.
——; Holzer, R. E. (1939). "A Recording Generating Voltmeter for the Study of Atmospheric Electricity". Review of Scientific Instruments. 10 (5): 160–163. Bibcode:1939RScI...10..160W. doi:10.1063/1.1751510.
——; Holzer, R. E.; Pelsor, G. T. (1942). The electrical structure of thunderstorms (report: No. NACA-TN-864).
—— (1948). "Thunderstorm electricity". Journal of Geophysical Research. 53 (3): 278. Bibcode:1948TeMAE..53..278W. doi:10.1029/TE053i003p00278.
——; Reynolds, S. E. (1948). "A Suggested Mechanism for the Generation of Thunderstorm Electricity". Physical Review. 74 (6): 709. Bibcode:1948PhRv...74..709W. doi:10.1103/PhysRev.74.709.
——; Reynolds, S. E. (1949). "Electrical Activity as Related to Thunderstorm Cell Growth". Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society. 30 (4): 142–144. JSTOR 26258148.
——; Reynolds, S. E. (1950). "Electrical Phenomena Occurring during the Freezing of Dilute Aqueous Solutions and Their Possible Relationship to Thunderstorm Electricity". Physical Review. 78 (3): 254–259. Bibcode:1950PhRv...78..254W. doi:10.1103/PhysRev.78.254.
——; Reynolds, S. E. (1952). "Production of Electric Charges on Water Drops". Nature. 169 (4313): 1108–1109. Bibcode:1952Natur.169.1108W. doi:10.1038/1691108b0. S2CID 4240553.
——; Truby, Frank K.; Drost-Hansen, W. (1954). "Electrical Conduction in Halide-Contaminated Ice". Physical Review. 94 (4): 1073. Bibcode:1954PhRv...94.1073W. doi:10.1103/PhysRev.94.1073.
——; Brook, M.; Kitagawa, N. (1960). "Lightning and charge storage". Journal of Geophysical Research. 65 (5): 1513–1517. Bibcode:1960JGR....65.1513W. doi:10.1029/JZ065i005p01513.
—— (1962). "The Problem of Weather Modification". Science. 138 (3538): 407–412. Bibcode:1962Sci...138..407W. doi:10.1126/science.138.3538.407. PMID 17794913.
Kitagawa, N.; Brook, M.; —— (1962). "Continuing currents in cloud-to-ground lightning discharges". Journal of Geophysical Research. 67 (2): 637–647. Bibcode:1962JGR....67..637K. doi:10.1029/JZ067i002p00637.
Brook, M.; Kitagawa, N.; —— (1962). "Quantitative study of strokes and continuing currents in lightning discharges to ground". Journal of Geophysical Research. 67 (2): 649–659. Bibcode:1962JGR....67..649B. doi:10.1029/JZ067i002p00649.
—— (1967). "The production of thunderstorm electricity". Journal of the Franklin Institute. 283 (6): 540–557. doi:10.1016/0016-0032(67)90600-X.


== References ==


== External links ==
"Portrait of Everly Workman (circa 1929)". American Institute of Physics.
"Everly Workman (center) receiving U.S. Army Certificate of Merit (circa 1946)". American Institute of Physics.
"Everly Workman (left) with Dr. A. A. Knowlton (circa 1957)". American Institute of Physics.
"Portrait of Everly Workman". American Institute of Physics. February 1960.

"Stand on It" is a song written and originally recorded by Bruce Springsteen.  Springsteen initially released it as the non-LP B-side of the "Glory Days" single in May 1985; the track was also featured in the film Ruthless People and its accompanying soundtrack album.  "Stand On It" later appeared in a slightly longer version with an extra verse on Springsteen's outtakes and B-sides compilation Tracks. Another version appeared on the 2025 follow up to that collection, Tracks II: The Lost Albums.
A little over a year after Springsteen's release, the song was recorded by American country music artist Mel McDaniel. It was released in September 1986 as the lead single from McDaniel's album, Just Can't Sit Down Music. It peaked at number 12 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart and number 5 on the Canadian RPM Country Tracks chart.


== Personnel (Springsteen version) ==
According to authors Philippe Margotin and Jean-Michel Guesdon:

Bruce Springsteen – vocals, guitars
Roy Bittan – piano
Garry Tallent – bass
Max Weinberg – drums


== Chart performance ==
"Stand on It" debuted at number 70 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks for the week of September 27, 1986.


== References ==

Foolproof is a 2003 Canadian heist film directed by William Phillips and starring Ryan Reynolds, David Suchet, Kristin Booth, Joris Jarsky, and James Allodi.


== Plot ==
Kevin, Sam, and Rob play a game that they call "Foolproof", in which they create working plans to infiltrate and burgle various targets. They do not actually execute these heists, preferring to simply simulate them using necessary technical and physical abilities to carry out the tasks required. They adhere to some rules, such as using identical equipment and infrastructure as the target and using no firearms of any kind.
A famous criminal, Leo Gillette, breaks into Sam's apartment, steals the trio's plans for a jewelry warehouse heist, and accomplishes it. He then uses their plans to blackmail the group into designing and executing a plan to steal $20 million in bonds from a bank. They reluctantly accept and begin planning a new heist.
Tension escalates within the group as Rob admires and befriends Leo, Sam uses her physical prowess to test Leo's limits and is occasionally punished for it, and Kevin tries to protect the trio and minimize their exposure. Leo rewards Rob by paying him alone for the trio's involuntary help in the successful jewelry heist. Kevin and Sam burgle Leo's restaurant wine cellar to obtain the plans being used to blackmail them, but Rob informs Leo who catches them in the act. Leo has his goons watch them all.
With the trio's careful planning, the bank heist proceeds smoothly and they obtain the bonds, replacing them with forgeries to avoid detection. However, as they attempt to leave, Leo and Rob betray Kevin and Sam, leaving them to fall with a crashing elevator car. Leo and Rob go to retrieve the bonds, and in a standoff a fallen Sam shoots Rob and Leo shoots Sam. Convinced that he is the last one alive, Leo escapes with the bonds.
Leo returns to his restaurant to find it surrounded by firefighters and police due to a fire caused by a device Kevin had left in the wine cellar. The police question Leo and confront him with the strongbox in which he had kept both the jewelry heist plans and the diamonds obtained. They open it and instead find plans for the bank heist, and a quick search reveals his possession of the stolen bonds and a recently fired handgun loaded with blanks. Dressed as a firefighter, Kevin slips through the cordon and into a car with Sam and Rob. Kevin shows that he has successfully collected the plans used to blackmail them and the diamonds. They drive away while discussing their future.


== Cast ==
Ryan Reynolds as Kevin
Kristin Booth as Sam
Joris Jarsky as Rob
David Hewlett as Lawrence Yeager
James Allodi as Detective Mason
David Suchet as Leo Gillette


== Production ==
The film was filmed in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, and produced by Alliance Atlantis Communications and Ego Film Arts and released theatrically on October 3, 2003, by Odeon Films in Canada and Momentum Pictures of the United Kingdom.
In Canada, it was released in 204 theatres, more than any other movie in the past. Under Telefilm Canada rules stating the film producers must have a good script and firm distribution deals to get a grant of more than C$1 million, Telefilm granted Foolproof C$3.4 million. The entire budget was C$7.8 million.


== Reception ==
Chris Parry of eFilmCritic gave it 3 out of 5 stars and wrote: "The practice of Canadian companies and funding bodies unquestioningly funding any and all projects that Atom Egoyan signs his name to must end immediately. Not that this, his first foray into action thrillers, is necessarily the worst film of all time. In fact, it's actually quite enjoyable in parts. But the money blown on it could have funded eighteen smaller films that actually had a shot at the box office - or one close to this one, only which had the one secret ingredient needed to make a profit... an actual star."


== Home media ==
The film was released on DVD in March 2004, including behind-the-scenes and special effects features, the theatrical trailer and outtakes. The package also contained a CD  of the soundtrack, with songs performed by The Crystal Method, The Dandy Warhols, Sam Roberts and Pilate.
In 2020, mobile phone company Mint Mobile, in which Ryan Reynolds had an ownership stake, made the film available to view for free, through a print from the ad-supported streaming service FilmRise, on the website mintmobileplus.com, purported as being part of a new streaming service launched by the company (a joke on the various streaming services, such as Disney+, HBO Max, and Apple TV+, launching or increasing in popularity that year, even having a logo stylized after the first service); the joke was that the film was the only program on the "service", being shown with different thumbnails to make it appear as if it were different films.


== References ==


== External links ==
Foolproof at IMDb
Foolproof at Rotten Tomatoes
Foolproof at Box Office Mojo

Cana Store and Post Office is a historic general store and post office building located near Mocksville, Davie County, North Carolina. It was built about 1875, and is a two-story, three-bay, frame building with a gable roof. The front facade features a broad hip-roofed frame canopy added in the 1930s that serves as a porte-cochere. Also on the property is a contributing one-story woodshed built in the 1930s. The building housed a post office until 1954 and a general store until 1965.
It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2001.


== References ==

Hercules James Robertson, Lord Benholme (13 October 1795 – 15 September 1874) was a Scottish judge. He became a Senator of the College of Justice in 1853.


== Life ==

Born in Edinburgh, he was the son of George Robertson – Scott and his wife Isabella Scott.
Robertson was educated at the High School and then studied law at the University of Edinburgh. He was called to the Scottish bar in 1817. Robertson was Sheriff of Renfrewshire in 1842 and was appointed a Lord of Session in December 1853 assuming the judicial title Lord Benholme, after his mother's family seat.
He lived with his family at 76 Great King Street, a very large Georgian townhouse in Edinburgh's Second New Town.
He died in Edinburgh on 15 September 1874.


== Family ==
On 7 July 1829, he married Ann Wilhelmina Hope (died 1842), the daughter of Charles Hope, Lord Granton. They had four sons and two daughters.
His son David Robertson became a minister and married Eleanor Charlotte Dalrymple-Fergusson, daughter of Sir Charles Dalrymple Fergusson, 5th Baronet of Kilkerran.
His son George Robertson (1830–1896) became a civil engineer in charge of the expansion of Leith Docks. He was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh and President of the Royal Scottish Society of Arts from 1866 to 1868.


== Arms ==


== References ==

Roadside conservation is a conservation strategy in Australia and other countries where road verge flora and habitats are protected or improved. The general aim is to conserve or increase the amount of native flora species; especially where that work will lead to higher conservation value, for example providing food or habitat for rare or endangered native fauna.


== Issues ==
Potential benefits of roadside conservation strategies can include: 

Maintenance of the biodiversity of the roadsides
Sustaining available corridors for fauna movement and habitat
Preserving remnants of native vegetation adjoining man-made environments
Problems with the maintaining of roadsides include:

Removal, cutting of native vegetation
Conflicts with road safety, such as foliage growth which restricts visibility for road users
Work-load due to the extent of roadsides (i.e. the great length)


== Western Australia ==
Formal recognition of the importance of roadside reserves occurred in the 1960s when then-Premier of Western Australia, the Hon. David Brand, ensured all new roads in Western Australia would have road reserves at least 40 metres wider than that needed for transport purposes.


== Notes ==

Hydrophilini is a tribe in the subfamily Hydrophilinae of aquatic beetles that contains 204 species in 7 genera.


== Genera ==
Brownephilus
Hydrobiomorpha
Hydrochara
Hydrophilus
Protistolophus
Sternolophus
Tropisternus


== References ==

Kuala Lumpur International Film Festival is a film festival held in Kuala Lumpur. With the aim to promote the best in Asian cinema as well as unearth new Asian filimmaking talent, the 1st Kuala Lumpur International Film Festival was organized on the International Film Festival Circuit on 22 April 2001.


== KLIFF 2010 ==
Kuala Lumpur International Film Festival (KLIFF) was held at Dataran Merdeka, Kuala Lumpur & Malaysia Tourism Center (MATIC) from 24th until 28 November 2010.


=== The Theme ===
The theme for KLIFF is "Celebrating Cultural Diversity". We believe that to achieve global peace and stability, we must start by learning to appreciate cultural differences and sharing information with one another. Film is one of the most popular and effective mediums to stimulate such positive messages. We hope we will be able to make a significant contribution towards promoting unity and tolerance amongst the people of the world.


=== KLIFF 2010 program / activities ===
- Welcoming Night
- KLIFF Symposium
- KLIFF Business Matching
- Public Film Screening (at selected cinemas)
- Malaysian Film Premiere
- International Film Premiere
- Film Exhibitions
- Film Casting
- KLIFF 2010 Award Night


== History ==


=== Kuala Lumpur World Film Festival ===
The Kuala Lumpur International Film Festival had its beginnings in February 2003 when the one-off, three-day Kuala Lumpur World Film Festival was organised by the National Film Development Corporation Malaysia, or FINAS. Organised in conjunction with the Non-Aligned Movement Conference being held that year, the theme was "Peace, Harmony, Non-Violence and Non-Discrimination." From 16 to 18 February 2003, KLWFF '03 managed to gather participants from over 40 countries throughout the world and marked the beginning of Kuala Lumpur's involvement in the global film industry.
Carrying similar objectives as Kuala Lumpur World Film Festival 2003, FINAS proposed in 2006 to the Malaysian government to organize an annual film festival named Kuala Lumpur International Film Festival (KLIFF) with a new brand, theme and business approach to benefit filmmakers, producers, creative and technical talents, film students, sponsors, business entities related to the film industry and film enthusiasts throughout the world.


=== 2007 festival ===
With the theme, "Celebrating Cultural Diversity", the inaugural Kuala Lumpur International Film Festival screened 50 films from 18 countries. The competition featured 22 films from the five continents of Asia, Africa, Europe, North America and South America, as well as documentaries, short films and animation. The budget for the film festival was 4 million Malaysian ringgit.
Among the competition entries was one Malaysian film, 1957: Hati Malaya. A non-competition film making its premiere was Long Road to Heaven, an Indonesian film about the 2002 Bali bombings.
The festival was held from 28 November – 2 December 2007 with screenings at the Cathay Cineleisure Mutiara Damansara and the Perdana Awards ceremony at the Putra World Trade Centre.


== Awards ==


=== 2008 ===
Perdana Award – (BEST OVERALL FILM)Film: A Casa de Alice (Brazil)
Perdana Award – (BEST AFRICAN CONTINENT AWARD) Film: Divizionz ( South africa / Uganda)
Perdana Award – (BEST ASIAN CONTINENT AWARD) Film: Captain Abu Raed (Jordan)
Perdana Award – (BEST EUROPEAN CONTINENT AWARD) Film: Darling (France)
Perdana Award – (BEST NORTH AMERICA CONTINENT AWARD) Film: Fugitive Pieces (CANADA)
Perdana Award – (BEST SOUTH AMERICA CONTINENT AWARD) Film: A Casa de Alice (Alice’s House) (Brazil)
Best Director Award – YES! THAT’S US : Film –  Divizionz (South Africa / Uganda)
Best Actress Award – CARLA RIBAS :Film – A Casa de Alice (Alice’s House) (Brazil)
Best Actor Award – NADIM SAWALHA :Film –  Captain Abu Raed (Jordan)
Best Cinematography Award – Hai Jiao Qi Hao :Film – Cape No. 7 (Taiwan)
Best Screenplay Award – Hassan And Morcos (Egypt)
Best Sound Award – Hamoon And Darya (Iran)
Best Music Score Award – Divizionz (South Africa / Uganda)
Best Editing Award – Darling (France)
Special Jury Award – Wayang (Malaysia)
Best Animation Film – Memory Loss (Taiwan)
Best Documentary Film – Muschelsuche Unter Dem Arktischen Eis (Under The Ice) (Canada)
Best Short Film – G16 G17 (Malaysia)


== Awards ==


=== 2007 ===
Jury members for the competition were U-Wei Haji Saari from Malaysia, Andrew Vial from Australia, Jeff Bollow from New Zealand, Sozo Teruoka from Japan and Tikoy Aguiluz from the Philippines. The awards are as follows:

Best Film – Sunday in Kigali (Canada)
Best Actress – Fatou N'Diaye (Sunday in Kigali)
Best Actor – Adel Emam (The Yacoubian Building, Egypt)
Best Director – Charles Burnett (The Struggle for Liberation, Namibia)
Best Screenplay – American Fork (USA)
Best Score – The Struggle for Liberation (Namibia)
Best Sound – 1957: Hati Malaya (Malaysia)
Best Cinematography – Not by Chance (Brazil)
Best Special Effects (Jury Merit Award) – Transformers (USA)
Best Editing – Raphael Nadjari (Tehilim)
Special Jury Award – 1957: Hati Malaya
Best African Film – The Struggle for Liberation (Namibia)
Best South American Film – Cyrano Fernandez (Venezuela)
Best North American Film – Sunday in Kigali (Canada)
Best European Film – Tehilim (France)
Best Asian Film – One Summer with You (China)
Best Documentary – 4 (Australia)
Best Animation – Upin & Ipin, Les' Copaque Production (Malaysia)
Best Short Film – Feng (Wind) (Singapore/Australia)


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website

Sayuti Abubakar (born 15 September 1981) is an Indonesian politician and lawyer who is the mayor of Lhokseumawe, Aceh, serving since February 2025. During his legal career, he represented two-time Acehnese governor Irwandi Yusuf in electoral disputes, and joined his political party the Nanggroe Aceh Party.


== Early life ==
Sayuti Abubakar was born in the Gampong of Linggong, in Peusangan district of North Aceh Regency (today Bireuën Regency), on 15 September 1981. His parents were Abubakar and Saudah. He studied at a state-funded madrasa in Peusangan, and continued his studies in Lhokseumawe (then capital of North Aceh) where he graduated from a pesantren school in 1996. He then moved to Bekasi in West Java for high school, completing it in 1999. He then studied law at Pancasila University, receiving his bachelor's in 2003. He married Yulinda Sayuti.


== Career ==


=== Legal ===
Abubakar began to work at a law firm in Jakarta after receiving his bachelor's. In 2006, he left the firm to establish his own practice. In 2015, he received a master's degree in law from Pancasila, and in 2024 he received a doctorate from Trisakti University.
Abubakar's clients as a lawyer included a number of regional leaders, one of which was Acehnese politician and two-time governor Irwandi Yusuf. Abubakar represented Yusuf in a dispute related to the 2012 Aceh gubernatorial election at the Constitutional Court (MK), where Yusuf's lawsuit failed and his opponent Zaini Abdullah's election as governor was upheld. He again represented Yusuf after the 2017 Aceh gubernatorial election, and the MK sided with Yusuf in the dispute to uphold his victory in the election. Abubakar had also previously represented Yusuf in 2011 (related to an election delay) and the Aceh Sovereignty Party in 2009.


=== Politics ===
When Yusuf updated the name and leadership of his founded political party the National Aceh Party into the Nanggroe Aceh Party (PNA) in 2017, Abubakar became a member of the party's supreme council as secretary. In 2019, following Yusuf's arrest by the Corruption Eradication Commission, PNA held an extraordinary congress to elect a new chairman, but Abubakar refused to recognize the congress' legitimacy. The Ministry of Law and Human Rights ultimately did not recognize the new leadership, and Yusuf remained chairman of the party even as he was in jail. While in prison, Irwandi signed a nomination letter as PNA chairman in March 2021, endorsing Abubakar to become the new vice governor (the previous vice governor, Nova Iriansyah, replaced him). His recommendation was rejected by some PNA leaders and other coalition parties, and the position of Aceh's vice governor remained vacant until the end of Nova's term in 2022.
In 2024, Abubakar registered to run as mayor of Lhokseumawe, receiving support from PNA, the Aceh Party, PKB, Demokrat, and PPP. Husaini Pom, a former Free Aceh Movement fighter and Aceh Party member, became his running mate. They were elected with 34,962 votes (38.2%) in a four-way race. They were sworn in on 17 February 2025.


== References ==

The 24th Academy of Country Music Awards ceremony was held on April 10, 1989, at Disney Studios, Burbank, California. It was hosted by Patrick Duffy, K.T. Oslin, and George Strait.


== Winners and nominees ==
Winners are shown in bold.


== Performers ==


== Presenters ==


== References ==

In the Shadow of Eagles (original title All'ombra delle aquile) is a 1966 sword-and-sandal film written and directed by Ferdinando Baldi and starring Cameron Mitchell and Beba Lončar.


== Plot ==
Emperor Tiberius is warned of the threat posed by the Germanic tribes revolting in the northern province of Pannonia. Tribune Marcus Vinditius is entrusted with the insignia of the 7th Legion and ordered by Governor Messala to subdue the rebellion.  Magdus, the aging leader of the Pannonian tribes, is angry with Batone because he has compromised the peace terms with Rome, but Batone is a much younger warrior who has lost his reason and lusts for blood.


== Cast ==
Cameron Mitchell as Marcus Venditius
Dieter Eppler as Publius
Aleksander Gavrić as Batone
Paul Windsor  as Messala
Remo De Angelis as Publius
Vladimir Medar as Magdus
Beba Lončar as Helen
Gabriella Pallotta as Julia
Peter Carsten
Beli Bolin


== See also ==
Massacre in the Black Forest (dir. Ferdinando Baldi, 1967), with Cameron Mitchell, Beba Lončar, Dieter Eppler, Peter Carsten


== References ==
1. Roberto Poppi, Mario Pecorari. Dizionario del cinema italiano. I film. Gremese Editore, 2007. 
ISBN 8884405033
2. Patrick Lucanio. With Fire and Sword: 
Italian spectacles on American screens, 1958 - 1968. Scarecrow Press. 1994. ISBN 0810828162


== Biography ==
Hughes, Howard (2011). Cinema Italiano - The Complete Guide From Classics To Cult. London - New York: I.B. Tauruis. ISBN 978-1-84885-608-0.
Roberto Poppi, Mario Pecorari. Dizionario del cinema italiano. I film. Gremese Editore, 2007, ISBN 8884405033.
Patrick Lucanio. With fire and sword: Italian spectacles on American screens, 1958 - 1968. Scarecrow Press 1994. ISBN 0810828162.


== External links ==
In the Shadow of the Eagles at IMDb

Cratendune (Medieval Latin: vallis Cracti) is the name of the lost village reported in the Liber Eliensis, the history of the abbey, then Ely Cathedral, compiled towards the end of the 12th century, as the 500th anniversary of the traditional founding date drew near. As no direction is indicated in Liber Eliensis, a number of archaeological sites are therefore candidates for this lost village.


== History ==
Reading from the Liber Eliensis MS folio 2, which is a 12th  century Benedictine history of Ely written in Latin, Bentham describes Æthelberht of Kent, Chief of the Saxon Kings, founding a church at the insistence of Augustine (died 26  May 604). The church, dedicated to the Virgin Mary, was located about 1.6 kilometres (1 mi) from what is now Ely Cathedral at a place called Cratendune. The date mentioned for this founding was the year 607, three years after Augustine's death. This incongruity was attributed by Bentham to a mistake by the monk transcribing this history.

Fairweather, translating the same Latin text, records the site 1.6 kilometres (1 mi) from the present site of the Cathedral:In times of old, so it is said, there was a vill, that is, in Latin, Vallis Cracti a mile away from the city which now exists. There one frequently finds implements of iron-work and the coinage of past kings, and the fact that it was for a long time a place inhabited by men is clear from various pieces of evidence. But after Æthelthryth, beloved of God, chose to dwell there, ...she sited her living-quarters near the course of the river, on higher ground
Staffed by Benedictine monks, the church was abandoned, perhaps destroyed in around 650 by or on the orders of the pagan Penda of Mercia.
No direction is indicated in Liber Eliensis; a number of archaeological sites, therefore, are candidates for this lost village. Two candidate locations are based on the survival of the toponym Cratenden. One, Cratendon Field, was identified as the lost site by the antiquarian James Bentham just south of the city of Ely, and the identification was repeated by James Sargant Storer, in The Antiquarian Itinerary, 1816. Janet Fairweather notes that in the Ely Coucher book Cratendune Field is listed next to Grunty Fen, corroborating this identification. Cratendune also survived as a toponym associated with Chettisham in a 1251 survey.


== Geography ==
As there is no documented direction for Cratendune, the place could be anywhere. These modern places are all within 4 kilometres (2 mi) of the present day site of Ely cathedral. The cathedral is built on boulder clay resting on a Jurassic Kimmeridge Clay bed; the old course of the River Great Ouse is 2 kilometres (1 mi) south-east. The highest point in the area at 26 metres (85 ft)  is 0.8 kilometres (0.5 mi) south-west towards Witchford aerodrome, now disused. At Witchford, 3 kilometres (2 mi) south-west, Fowler found an Anglo-Saxon cemetery: see below.


== Archaeology ==
The search for Cratendune continues, though evidence that any one site is the lost village remains sparse. In 1999 there was media attention during preparation work for new buildings at West Fen Road, Ely. The archaeology work subsequently undertaken indeed shows Romano-British and Anglo-Saxon occupation. However, it was shown that the site was still active in the 13th century and there were no signs of an earlier Anglo-Saxon settlement here. This makes the West Fen Road site an unlikely Cratendune location.
During World War II whilst constructing an aerodrome at Witchford, near Little Thetford, a cemetery was discovered. Major Gordon Fowler reports witnessing a bulldozer leveling off ground and in so doing was crushing skeletons. The urgent war effort could not be stopped so little archaeological work could be undertaken. He was, however, able to recover some objects from the graves, which were later dated by Lethbridge to be consistent with the period AD 450–650. Recent survey work has not repeated the 1943 report of an Anglo-Saxon cemetery here, instead of finding Iron-Age and Roman period domestic and other remains. It has been suggested that an Anglo-Saxon settlement within Ely was perhaps more spread out, with no single core settlement.


== See also ==
Anglo-Saxon England
Anglo-Saxon settlement of Britain


== References ==


=== Footnotes ===


=== Notes ===


=== Bibliography ===
Bentham, Reverend James (1771), The History and Antiquities of the Conventual and Cathedral Church of Ely: From the Foundation of the Monastery, A.D. 673. To the Year 1771, vol. I, Cambridge University Press, retrieved 29 September 2010
"Cambridgeshire Archaeology Historic Environment Team Annual Report:Lancaster Way, East Cambridgeshire" (PDF). Cambridgeshire County Council. 2008–2009. Archived from the original (PDF) on 9 June 2011. Retrieved 19 August 2010.
Fairweather, Janet (2005), Liber Eliensis: a history of the Isle of Ely from the seventh century to the twelfth, The Boydell Press, ISBN 1-84383-015-9
Fowler, Gordon (1948), "Cratendune: A problem of the Dark Ages", Proceedings of the Cambridge Antiquarian Society, vol. XLI, For the Cambridge Antiquarian Society by Bowes and Bowes, pp. 70–73, retrieved 29 September 2010
Atkinson, T.D.; Hampson, Ethel M.; Long, E.T.; Meekings, C.A.F.; Miller, Edward; Wells, H.B.; Woodgate, G.M.G. (1953), Pugh, R.B. (ed.), The Victoria History of the Counties of England: Cambridge and the isle of Ely, vol. IV, Oxford University Press
Regan, Roderick; Ballantyne, Rachel; Berger, Mark; Clerk, Andrew; Conneller, Chantal; Dodwell, Natasha; Higbee, Lorrain; Monteil, Gwladys; Stevens, Chris; Scaife, Robert (January 2001), West Fen Road, Ely, Cambridgeshire:Cornwell Field, assessment report, vol. 413, Cambridge Archaeological Unit, University of Cambridge
Storer (1816), Ely, Cambridgeshire, The Antiquarian Itinerary: comprising specimens of architecture, monastic, castellated, and domestic; with other vestiges of antiquity in Great Britain


=== Further reading ===
Barrowclough, David; Morrison, Kate (2013), Ely, The Hidden History, The History Press
Watson, William (1827), An historical account of the ancient town and port of Wisbech, in the Isle of Ely, in the county of Cambridge: and of the circumjacent towns and villages, the drainage of the great level of the fens, the origin of the royal franchise of the Isle of Ely &c. ..., H and J Leach


== External links ==
Cratendune Controversy
Wells, Matt (5 November 1999). "Doggies bagged Dig throws new light on Anglo-Saxon attitudes". The Guardian. p. 9. ProQuest 188422498.(subscription required)

Stephen Wayne Mintz (born November 24, 1968) is an American former professional baseball pitcher and manager. Mintz played parts of two seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the San Francisco Giants and the Anaheim Angels.


== Career ==


=== Playing career ===
Mintz was drafted by the Los Angeles Dodgers in the 17th round of the 1990 amateur draft out of Mount Olive College in Mount Olive, North Carolina. He played his first professional season with the Dodgers' Class A (short season) Yakima Bears in 1990, then played two more seasons in their organization and was released before the 1993 season.
He was picked up by the Boston Red Sox, playing one season in their farm system, then signed with the San Francisco Giants on December 15, 1993, making his major league debut for the Giants on May 18, 1995. In 14 appearances with San Francisco that season, he was 1-2 with a 7.45 earned run average.
After four seasons in the Milwaukee Brewers, San Diego Padres and Pittsburgh Pirates organizations, he made three appearances with the Anaheim Angels during the 1999 season. He ended his career with Anaheim's Triple-A farm club, the Salt Lake Stingers, in 2001.


=== Coaching career ===
Retiring as an active player midway through the 2001 season, he spent the second half of the season as pitching coach for the Angels' short-season minor league teams. He then moved to the Twins' organization, and coached for the Gulf Coast League Twins from 2002 through 2005. He was then promoted to pitching coach for the Midwest League Beloit Snappers. After two seasons there, he went on to coach for the Double-A New Britain Rock Cats. In 2009, he replaced Eric Rasmussen as pitching coach of the Twins' Florida State League advanced A affiliate, the Fort Myers Miracle, a position he continued to hold as of the end of the 2011 season.
Mintz moved to the Texas Rangers organization beginning in 2013, serving as pitching coach for the Myrtle Beach Pelicans. After two seasons, he was promoted to pitching coach for the High Desert Mavericks for the 2015 season. In 2016, Mintz was again promoted to manage the Class A Hickory Crawdads of the South Atlantic League. However, he was not brought for a second season, and returned as a pitching coach for the Class A-Advanced Down East Wood Ducks in 2017. He served in that role for the 2017, 2018 and, 2019 seasons, and was slated to do the same for the 2020 season before it was canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2022, Mintz was promoted to manager of the Wood Ducks.
During the 2015-16 season, Mintz was the manager of the Australian Baseball League's Adelaide Bite, leading them to a 30-26 record and a spot in the league's Championship Series.
Mintz served as manager of the Auckland Tuatara for their 2018-19 inaugural season in the Australian Baseball League, and returned for the 2019-2020 season.


== References ==


== External links ==
Career statistics from MLB · ESPN · Baseball Reference · Fangraphs · Baseball Reference (Minors) · Retrosheet   · Baseball Almanac

The Vicariate Apostolic of Iles Saint Pierre et Miquelon (Latin: Vicariatus Apostolicus Insularum Sancti Petri et Miquelonensis; French: Vicariat Apostolique des Îles Saint-Pierre-et-Miquelon) was an apostolic vicariate of the Latin Church of the Catholic Church in North America. The vicariate comprised the entirety of the French dependency of Saint-Pierre and Miquelon off the south coast of Newfoundland. As an apostolic vicariate, it did not have a formal metropolitan. The church was headed by a vicar apostolic.
First erected as an apostolic prefecture, in 1763, after the fall of New France, it was established as an apostolic vicariate on November 16, 1970. At the moment of its merging with the Roman Catholic Diocese of La Rochelle and Saintes, the vicariate had two parishes with a combined community of 6,300 Catholics, served by two religious priests, six female religious, and two male religious.
On March 1, 2018, this vicariate was merged into the territory of the Roman Catholic Diocese of La Rochelle and Saintes, in the French département of Charente-Maritime.


== History ==
1763: Established as the Apostolic Prefecture of Iles Saint Pierre and Miquelon on territory of the Saint-Pierre and Miquelon from the Roman Catholic Diocese of Quebec.
November 16, 1970: Promoted as the Apostolic Vicariate of Iles Saint Pierre and Miquelon.
March 1, 2018: Officially suppressed and its territory merged into the Roman Catholic Diocese of La Rochelle and Saintes.


== Ordinaries ==
Girard, C.S.Sp. † (22 Jan 1766 Appointed – 1767)
Julien-François Becquet, C.S.Sp. † (28 Apr 1767 Appointed – 1775 Resigned)
de Longueville † ( 1788 Appointed – 1793 Resigned)
Ollivier † ( 1816 Appointed – 7 Sep 1842 Resigned)
M. Le Helloco † (22 Jun 1853 Appointed – 1866 Resigned)
M. Letournoux † (13 Dec 1866 Appointed – 1892 Resigned)
Christophe-Louis Légasse † ( 1899 Appointed – 6 Dec 1915 Appointed, Bishop of Oran)
Joseph Oster, C.S.Sp. † ( 1916 Appointed – 1922 Died)
Charles Joseph Heitz † (9 Nov 1922 Appointed – 1933 Resigned)
Raymond Henri Martin, C.S.Sp. † (23 Nov 1945 Appointed – 1966 )
François Joseph Maurer, C.S.Sp. † (17 May 1966 Appointed – 17 Feb 2000 Retired)
Lucien Prosper Ernest Fischer, C.S.Sp. (17 Feb 2000 Appointed – 19 Jun 2009 Retired)
Marie Pierre François Auguste Gaschy, C.S.Sp. (19 Jun 2009 Appointed – 1 Mar 2018 Retired)


== References ==


== External links ==
Vicariate Apostolic of Saint-Pierre and Miquelon. Catholic-Hierarchy.org. Retrieved 2006-07-18. [self-published]

Taipei North Gate (Chinese: 臺北府城北門), formally Cheng'en Gate (Chinese: 承恩門), is a historical gate in Taipei, Taiwan, and a national monument. Constructed in 1884, it is the best-preserved gate of the historical Walls of Taipei. Its design is a two-story closed blockhouse of solid construction with traditional Chinese wooden roof truss and streamlined carved ornamentations.  Important in the Qing layout of the city, restoring it to visual prominence in the city has been a feature of recent urban planning.
It gives its name to Beimen metro station.


== References ==


== Bibliography ==


== External links ==
North Gate in a Summer Rainfall in 2024 (YouTube short video, 50 seconds)

The 1997 Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe was a horse race held at Longchamp on Sunday 5 October 1997. It was the 76th running of the Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe.
The winner was Peintre Celebre, a three-year-old colt trained in France by André Fabre. The winning jockey was Olivier Peslier.
The winning time of 2m 24.6s set a new record for the race. The previous record of 2m 26.3s was achieved by Trempolino in 1987.


== Race details ==
Sponsor: no sponsor
Purse: 7,000,000 F; First prize: 4,000,000 F
Going: Good to Firm
Distance: 2,400 metres
Number of runners: 18
Winner's time: 2m 24.6s (new record)


== Full result ==


== Winner's details ==
Further details of the winner, Peintre Celebre.

Sex: Colt
Foaled: 17 March 1994
Country: United States
Sire: Nureyev; Dam: Peinture Bleue (Alydar)
Owner: Daniel Wildenstein
Breeder: Allez France Stables


== References ==


== External links ==
Colour Chart – Arc 1997

At the 1906 Intercalated Games, four events in tennis were contested. Though now termed the Intercalated Games, the 1906 Games were at the time regarded as an official Olympics event. This status was retroactively revoked by the International Olympic Committee. The events were played on outdoor clay courts at the Athens Lawn Tennis Club and were held from 23 April until the 28 April 1906.


== Medal summary ==


=== Events ===


=== Medal table ===


== References ==

Tatyana Vladimirovna Russiyan-Gubanova was a Soviet athlete who was a world record holder in helicopter sports. She was an international-class Master of Sports of the USSR and was appointed as a judge in the all-Union category later in her career.


== Biography ==


=== Early life ===
Tatyana was born 27 August 1930 in Moscow. Her father was Vladimir Pavlovich Russiyan and her mother was Vera Pavlovna Polyakova. She had one brother named Arkady.


=== Aviation career ===
She became a student at the Moscow Aviation Institute, becoming a glider pilot at the school's flying club, where she made her first glider flight and parachute jump. She graduated from the institute in 1954.
In 1956, Tatyana was appointed assistant to the lead engineer for flight tests of an experimental design bureau, now called the Mil Moscow Helicopter Plant. There, she received an experimenter's certificate which gave her the authorization to participate in official flights and work at the test station. That same year, she started to study in the helicopter department of the V.P. Chkalov Central Aeroclub and was certified as a helicopter pilot-athlete.
Up until 1985, both as an employee of the Mil Moscow Plant and later the Gromov Flight Research Institute, Tatyana participated in helicopter competitions. In total, Tatyana set eleven world records in helicopter sports during the period of 1960 to 1967 in the Mi-1, Mi-2, Mi-4, and Mi-8 helicopters. Her records include:

1959: climbing to 4,140 metres (4,530 yd) in a Mi-1 helicopter without oxygen equipment
12 January 1965: 7,524 metres (8,228 yd) altitude record
2 August 1965: 49 kilometres (30 mi) range record
23 August 1967: 273.51 kilometres per hour (169.95 mph) base airspeed record
In 1963, she entered the graduate school program of the Moscow Aviation Institute in the Department of Helicopter Design. During that time she worked on her dissertation titled "Vortex theory of the main rotor in steep gliding."
Tatyana married Yuri Nikolaevich Gubanov, an associate professor at the Moscow State Technical University in 1972. In 1973, their son Nikolai was born.


=== After retirement ===
Tatyana retired in 1985, but she did not part with aviation. She maintained socially involved in the aviation sector, helped Soviet pilot-athletes master the new Ka-32 helicopter, and worked as a referee at helicopter sports competitions. In 1991, she was awarded the title of judge of the all-Soviet Union category of helicopter sports. In 1992, along with twelve other prominent Soviet aviators, she helped to found the Aviatrix club. From 1992 to 2002 she served as vice president of the club.
She died on 3 October 2012 in Moscow and was buried in the Mitinskoe cemetery. She had been awarded the Order of the Badge of Honor and other medals.


== References ==

Umbralisib, sold under the brand name Ukoniq, is an anti-cancer medication for the treatment of marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) and follicular lymphoma (FL). It is taken by mouth.
Umbralisib is a kinase inhibitor including PI3K-delta and casein kinase CK1-epsilon.
The most common side effects include increased creatinine, diarrhea-colitis, fatigue, nausea, neutropenia, transaminase elevation, musculoskeletal pain, anemia, thrombocytopenia, upper respiratory tract infection, vomiting, abdominal pain, decreased appetite, and rash.
Umbralisib was granted accelerated approval for medical use in the United States in February 2021. However, due to concerns for increased long term side effects leading to inferior overall survival which led to increased FDA scrutiny in the form of an ODAC review, it has been withdrawn from the US market.


== Medical uses ==
In April 2022, TG Therapeutics announced the voluntary withdrawal of Ukoniq (umbralisib) from sale for its approved use in the treatment of marginal zone lymphoma and follicular lymphoma. Furthermore, the company withdrew the pending Biologics License Application (BLA) and supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and small lymphocytic leukemia (SLL) which utilized umbralisib in tandem with ublituximab, known as the "U2" regimen. The decision was based on the overall survival (OS) data from the phase III trial, Unity-CLL, that illustrated and increasing imbalance in OS.
Umbralisib is indicated for adults with relapsed or refractory marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) who have received at least one prior anti-CD20-based regimen; and adults with relapsed or refractory follicular lymphoma (FL) who have received at least three prior lines of systemic therapy.


== Adverse effects ==
The prescribing information provides warnings and precautions for adverse reactions including infections, neutropenia, diarrhea and non-infectious colitis, hepatotoxicity, and severe cutaneous reactions.


== History ==
It has undergone clinical studies for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Three year data (including follicular lymphoma and DLBCL) was announced June 2016. It is in combination trials for various leukemias and lymphomas, such as mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) and other lymphomas.
Umbralisib was granted breakthrough therapy designation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in people with marginal zone lymphoma (MZL), a type of cancer with no specifically approved therapies.
FDA approval was based on two single-arm cohorts of an open-label, multi-center, multi-cohort trial, UTX-TGR-205 (NCT02793583), in 69 participants with marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) who received at least one prior therapy, including an anti-CD20 containing regimen, and in 117 participants with follicular lymphoma (FL) after at least two prior systemic therapies. The application for umbralisib was granted priority review for the marginal zone lymphoma (MZL) indication and orphan drug designation for the treatment of MZL and follicular lymphoma (FL).


== Society and culture ==


=== Legal status ===
In June 2022, due to safety concerns, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) withdrew its approval for Ukoniq (umbralisib).
Updated findings from the UNITY-CLL clinical trial show a possible increased risk of death in people receiving Ukoniq. As a result, the FDA determined the risks of treatment with Ukoniq outweigh its benefits. Based upon this determination, the drug's manufacturer, TG Therapeutics, announced it was voluntarily withdrawing Ukoniq from the market for the approved uses in MZL and FL.


== References ==


== External links ==
"Umbralisib". Drug Information Portal. U.S. National Library of Medicine. Archived from the original on April 22, 2021.
"Umbralisib". NCI Drug Dictionary. National Cancer Institute.

Tough Grit – The Rural America Challenge is a weekly 30-minute television show produced by  GRIT magazine and Berkeley Square Media, Inc. with major sponsorship provided by Tractor Supply Company, broadcast nationally on the satellite/cable channel RFD-TV. It combines expert information on rural subjects with humor to help viewers complete common rural-based DIY projects quickly, correctly, and safely. The first show premiered on September 3, 2012. It is hosted by Shannon Reilly and Caleb Reagan. Episodes are also archived for viewing at ToughGrit.com.
Each Tough Grit episode centers around a particular everyday rural farm chore, ranging from mending a fence or mucking a horse stall to grading a lane and throwing a hoe down. Contestants team up with experts from GRIT magazine and Tractor Supply Company to compete in head-to-head challenges and try to accomplish the task faster, better, and more safely than their opponents.  The winner(s) can receive up to a $1,000 gift card to Tractor Supply Company. The expert from GRIT magazine is consistently Oscar H. Will III, Editor-in-Chief of GRIT magazine, while the TSC expert is a different store manager or district manager for each show.


== Episodes ==
Key
In the No. column the number refers to the order it aired during the entire series.
In the # column the number refers to the episode number within its season.
The production code refers to the code assigned to the episode by the production team, which is the order in which the episode was produced, which is not necessarily the airing order.


== Notes ==

A television production truck or OB van is a small mobile production control room to allow filming of events and video production at locations outside a regular television studio. They are used for remote broadcasts, outside broadcasting (OB), and electronic field production (EFP). Some require a crew of as many as 30 people, with additional trucks for additional equipment as well as a satellite truck, which transmits video back to the studio by sending it up through a communications satellite using a satellite dish, which then transmits it back down to the studio. Alternatively, some production trucks include a satellite transmitter and satellite dish for this purpose in a single truck body to save space, time and cost.
Other television production trucks are smaller in size and generally require two or three people in the field to manage.  For instance broadcast journalism reporters providing live television, local news in the field electronic news gathering (ENG) outside a formal television studio. In some cases, it can be a station wagon, people carrier or even a motorbike (especially in cities with congested streets or where a rapid response is needed and a motorbike is more manoeuvrable).


== History ==

One of the BBC's early Outside Broadcast vehicles, MCR 1 (short for Mobile Control Room), was built by the joint Marconi-EMI company and delivered to the BBC just in time to televise the Coronation of George VI and Elizabeth in May 1937. MCR 2 was identical to MCR 1 and was delivered in the summer of 1938. The MCRs could handle three cameras. Initially, they were standard Emitrons, but were later supplemented by Super Emitrons, which performed much better than the standard ones in low light. The MCRs were built on the chassis of an AEC Regal single-decker bus.
After World War II, the joint company Marconi-EMI ceased. The BBC ordered two 3-camera MCRs from EMI. The cameras were equipped with CPS tubes, had electronic viewfinders and a 3-lens turret. MCR 4 was delivered in time to be used on the 1948 Olympics.
The BBC continued to develop mobile control rooms throughout the 1950s and 60s. The 1955 MCR13 was the unit the famous Dinky Toys BBC OB van was based on. MCR13 was equipped with three Marconi Image Orthicon cameras using the newly developed 4.5 inch tube. The further evolution of camera and mixing equipment led to the BBC 1963 specification TV90. Ten OB vans were built by Pye to this specification, with the coachwork by Marshall Bus of Cambridge. Pye called them “Main Fleet Scanners”. MCR19 was the first and MCR28 was the final development of the monochrome OB van series. These were equipped with four Pye MK6 cameras, built to meet the BBC specification.

After developing colour television in the mid 1960s, the BBC began to develop a fleet of colour OB units, known as CMCRs. Type 2 scanners, introduced in 1969, first came equipped with Pye PC80 cameras but these were soon superseded by EMI 2001 colour cameras. Nine Type 2 vehicles were built by Pye, with these trucks remaining in service through the 1970s and into the mid 1980s. Throughout this time, they would see use on some of the BBC's most prestigious programmes, including Royal Events, Doctor Who, Wimbledon Championships and Question Time. Type 2 units went on to be replaced by Type 5 units.
Although made from converted HGVs, inside these trucks were incredibly cramped as a result of housing all of the components of a television gallery. The vehicles were normally made up of three sections:

A section to house the camera control units, or CCUs, and camera monitoring equipment. Being so large and complex, these cameras required a team of skilled engineers to keep them functioning. During a production, the camera operator would control the pan and the focus but it was the engineer who controlled the exposure and the colour balance.
A section for the production crew, led by the director, who would orchestrate the overall production.
A section for the sound crew which housed their mixing desk and other sound equipment. From here the sound crew controlled not only the sound of the programme but all the production communications which allowed the whole crew to communicate to one another. Without which the production would undoubtedly grind to a halt.


== Interior ==
A typical modern OB vehicle is usually divided into five parts, but many vehicles are customised to specific roles.


=== Production control ===

This is the production hub of the vehicle, and is where the majority of the production crew sit in front of a wall of video monitors.  The video monitors show all the video feeds from various sources, including computer graphics, professional video cameras, video servers and slow-motion replay machines. The wall of monitors contains a preview monitor showing what could be the next source on air and a program monitor that shows the feed currently going to air or being recorded.  The keyed dirty feed (with digital on-screen graphic) is what is actually transmitted back to the central studio that is controlling the outside broadcast. A clean feed (without the graphics) could be sent to other vehicles for use in their production. Behind the directors there is usually a desk with monitors where the assistant producers can work. It is essential that the directors and assistant producers are in communication with each other during events, so that replays and slow-motion shots can be selected and aired.
Chyron, a well known manufacturer of character generators, “keys” graphics over a specified source the TD chooses, but is generally used for images, and lower third messages, as well as occasionally smaller videos. The Bug Box character generator works the same way but is only for sporting events - the operator is in charge of ensuring that the time, score, and statistics are displayed on the broadcast as appropriate.
Crew

Television director – responsible for directing the overall production, including cameras, replays and inserts
Television producers – responsible for the overall running of the production, liaising with talent and choosing when to take commercial breaks
Technical director (also known as a vision mixer) – operates the vision mixer, switching the video sources, including graphics, to air as directed
Production assistant (also known as a script supervisor) – responsible for communicating with the broadcast channel about timings, counting in and out of breaks, and giving timings on replays and packages
Assistant producers – often there will be an assistant producer who will be the communication link between the director and the VTR crew, providing information on which channel has the best replay of a certain moment for example
Graphics Operator and Graphics Coordinator – There are a wide range of digital on-screen graphic elements used in television production.
Equipment

Vision mixer – switch between multiple video feeds to produce an easy-to-watch television experience.
Video monitor – monitor different routable sources on multiple monitors to help select which feed is the best at any given time.
Character generator – used to generate a variety of graphics that can be keyed over a video source.


=== Sound ===

This is where the audio engineer (sound supervisor in the UK) uses a mixing console (being fed with all the various audio feeds: reporters, commentary, on-field microphones, etc.) to control which channels are added to the output and follows instructions from the director. They ensure that the audio is within pre-set limits, typically with the help of peak programme meters and loudness monitors. They relay the information from producers and directors to their A2's (audio assistants) who typically set up the audio cables and equipment throughout the arenas and the booth where the commentators sit.  The audio engineer normally also has a dirty feed monitor to help with the synchronization of sound and video. Intercom is also generally the responsibility of the sound department.
Crew

Audio mix engineer (A1) (also known as audio mixer, audio director or sound supervisor) – The A1 mixes the sounds that the audience will listen to. They will mix the assorted sounds such as crowd noise, effect sounds, announcers, etc. They route the different sources of sounds from microphones, cameras, discs, video tapes, telephones, EVS, or outside audio sources, into the audio mixing board for control. They are also in charge of ensuring the audio is successfully being transmitted. They also ensure the intercom is working for every station in the production, as well as dial-up coordination with a network director.
Audio assistant (A2) – The A2s work under the direction of the A1 as they set up all the audio equipment around the venue for various sounds. They also set up the intercom system between the production truck and stage or announcer booths. They are also in charge of placing microphones on the talent as they enter and exit.
Equipment

Audio Mixing console – combine any source of audio and change the level and dynamics of the audio, digital or analog audio sources.
Audio router – used to ensure that all sources of audio appear in the right place on the audio mixing console or in other parts of the production truck
Multitrack recording devices – recording individual tracks of the incoming sources allowing for a dub to be done at a later time
Intercom – two-wire or four-wire intercom allows everyone on the production able to communicate quickly and effectively.


=== VTR ===
The VTR area has a collection of machines including video servers and may also house additional power supplies or computer equipment. The "tape room" has VTR operators who monitor one or more cameras that go into machines and can be played back for replays when an exciting or important play occurs during the game. These operators can play back in slow motion or pause to show a key part of the action. VTR operators also play replay rollouts that lead into commercial breaks, run title sequences and introductory clips, or show the highlights of the event at the end of play.
This area is often called "EVS", after prominent supplier EVS Broadcast Equipment, who make replay machines and associated software.
Crew

Video Tape Operator (also known as LSM Operator or EVS Operator) – The Tape Operators control the recording equipment, nowadays video servers, that receive the video from the various cameras. They coordinate with the Director on playing back pre-recorded video, and other replays of action they recorded.
Equipment

Video server - used to record, store and play back video clips (and sometimes visual effects) used during the broadcast
Video tape recorder – previously used to record, store and play back video


=== Racks / engineering ===

In this area, the professional video cameras are controlled using camera control units (CCU) by multiple vision engineers, to make sure that the iris is at the correct level and that all cameras look the same. These operators shade, balance, and focus the cameras from this position inside the vehicle. This area is controlled by an operator called a V1 (vision supervisor in the UK) and depending on the size of the show may have multiple V2s. This area is also where the majority of the racked technical equipment is stored, including the video router and converters.
Crew

Engineer In Charge (EIC) – a broadcast engineer who has a greater deal of knowledge about the truck than anyone else on the production. They are involved in installing all required equipment, having the correct skills needed to fix and maintain the equipment. EIC’s usually stay on one truck for years learning all the intricacies about each machine and how to fix them in difficult situations.
Vision engineer (also known as a video technician or camera shader) – The vision engineers are in charge of all the cameras' iris and overall look of the camera's video. The vision engineers also troubleshoot issues that may arise with the cameras and cable length.
Equipment

Broadcast reference monitor – used to monitor the output of cameras and the transmission for confidence checking
Video router – send video and audio to any destination from any source.
Frame synchronizer – puts Asynchronous or “wild” video sources into Synchronization with other video signals.
Test card Signal generator – used for checking signal paths and troubleshooting.


=== Transmission ===
Some production trucks contain an integrated transmission area, where the outgoing feeds are monitored by the vehicle's engineers to ensure the audience have a good picture and a high-quality signal output. It is then transmitted directly from the truck if it has satellite or fibre uplink facilities, or is sent to other vehicles (typically a dedicated satellite truck) that handle this directly.


== Support Vehicles ==

Production trucks can broadcast from most remote locations and are available in platforms ranging from Ford Transit and Sprinter Vans, self-propelled units up to 45', and trailers up to 53'. However, most larger production trucks will travel with a tender vehicle, which will contain additional equipment that cannot be stored in the production truck itself. This equipment includes:

Camera equipment – Professional video cameras, lenses, tripods, camera pedestals, etc.
Electrical cables – triaxial cable, coaxial cable, audio multicore cable, XLR audio cables, optical fiber, power cable, etc.
Sound equipment – a variety of microphones, talkback receivers, etc.
These vehicles will often contain workbenches for basic maintenance and repairs.


== Transmission of video ==

The transmission of the raw video feed from the remote location to the studio or master control is called backhaul. There are several ways of transmitting the backhaul:


=== Direct microwave link ===
The earliest method, used before satellites, is to beam the video directly back to the studio using a microwave dish, where another dish receives the signal.  Microwave transmission requires an unobstructed line-of-sight path from the transmitting to the receiving antenna, which can be difficult to achieve in urban locations.  Some production trucks have a small microwave dish mounted on a telescoping mast, that can be raised 30 to 40 feet to "see" over buildings and other obstructions. It is still used for short ranges.


=== Communication satellites ===

One of the most common techniques is to use a satellite dish to transmit the video feed on a microwave uplink signal to a communication satellite orbiting the Earth, which then retransmits it back to a dish at the studio.  Satellite feed allows televising live events virtually anywhere on Earth.    The satellite is in a geostationary orbit about the Earth and so appears at a stationary position in the sky, so the dish merely has to be pointed initially at the satellite when the truck reaches its remote location and does not have to turn to "track" the satellite.    Satellite feed became common in the 1970s when there were enough satellites in orbit that a consumer market for satellite use started in television.  This open market for satellite space spawned a flurry in mobile satellite uplink trucks for hire, making possible the television viewing of live events all over the world.  The first satellite trucks were allocated frequencies in the C band (5.700-6.500 GHz) which required large 2-meter dishes.  In the 1980s frequencies in the Ku band (12 to 18 GHz). were authorized, which required only small dishes less than a meter in diameter, but these are not usable in rainy weather because of rain fade.
Today, the satellite dish and microwave transmitter may be on a satellite truck (uplink truck) separate from the production truck, but some production trucks (called "hybrids") also incorporate the satellite dish and transmitter.


=== Fiber optic lines ===
Where available, production trucks can use existing high capacity fiber optic cable to send video directly via the Internet to broadcasting companies for distribution. These accept an asynchronous serial interface (ASI) digital stream from the video encoder. This is a very high quality, low loss way of sending video quickly and securely around the world.


=== Cellular networks ===
Portable, battery-powered, IP video encoders are sometimes used over cellular modems that leverage a technology called bonded cellular, to transmit video signals from a camera back to a control room or content delivery network.  There have been recent tests using 5G for backhaul, with fibre optic as backup.


== References ==


== External links ==

LifeAtSky on YouTube – Step into our UHD OB Truck A tour of NEP UK's Aurora production truck
Restoration of a 1960s OB van
Online TV Camera museum

Fyodor Fyodorovich Arkhipenko (Belarusian: Фёдар Фёдаравіч Архіпенка, romanized: Fiodar Fiodaravič Archipienka; Russian: Фёдор Фёдорович Архипенко; 30 October 1921 – 28 December 2012) was a flying ace of the Soviet Air Force during the Second World War and recipient of the title Hero of the Soviet Union.


== Early life ==
Arkhipenko was born on 30 October 1921 to a Belarusian peasant family in Avsimovichi village, located in within the present-day Bobruisk district of Belarus, although his family moved to the village of Pobolovo shortly after he was born. In 1933 they moved to the city of Bobruisk, where he completed his ninth grade of school in 1938 and graduated from the local aeroclub before entering the military in November that year. After graduating from the Odessa Military Aviation School of Pilots in 1940 he was posted to the 17th Fighter Aviation Regiment as an I-153 pilot.


== World War II ==
Immediately after the start of the German invasion of the Soviet Union, Arkhipenko entered combat on the front lines of the Second World War with the rest of his regiment. On 15 October 1941 he made a dangerous landing on German-controlled territory to save a fellow pilot who had been shot down; however, during the landing, he broke the landing gear, forcing the two of them to make their way through the front lines to return to their regiment. For four days they hiked through enemy territory, and it wasn't until the end of the month that they made it back to their regiment. Despite being a flight commander he did not gain his first aerial victory until mid 1942 when he shared in the downing of a Dornier Do 215 on 28 June 1942 while flying a LaGG-3; it was not until after shooting down a Bf 109 on 8 August that year that he gained his first solo shootdown. Later in November he gained another shared kill of a Do 215, but the next month he was transferred to the 508th Fighter Aviation Regiment. Initially posted as a deputy squadron commander, he added several additional shootdowns to his tally and eventually gained a promotion to squadron commander before being reassigned to the 508th Fighter Aviation Regiment in October 1943. Earlier that year he had been wounded twice, first during an aerial battle in January and later in June during a bombing. Not long transferring to the 129th Guards Fighter Aviation Regiment in October 1943 as a squadron commander, he went on to rapidly increase his tally of shootdowns throughout 1944, having switched to flying the P-39 Airacobra. His last shootdown in the war and only shootdown in 1945 was a Fw 190 and took place on 17 January 1945 on the outskirts of Częstochowa. During the war he participated the battles of Kovel, Lutsk, Kiev, Kursk, Belgorod, Stalingrad, Kharkhov, the Dnieper, Kirovgrad, Yassko-Kishinev, Lvov-Sandomierz, and Silesia. By the end of the war he reached the rank of major and had been promoted to the position of deputy commander of the air rifle service within his unit; his tally stood at 28 solo and 15 shared shootdowns gained over the course of 467 sorties flown on I-153, LaGG-3, Yak-1, Yak-7B, and P-39 aircraft, engaging in 102 dogfights throughout the process. For his actions in the war he was awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union on 27 June 1945.


== Postwar ==
After the end of the war he remained in the military, graduating from the Lipetsk Higher Officer Aviation School in June before returning to his wartime regiment as assistant commander of the air rifle service, where he remained until February 1946. After graduating from the Air Force Academy of Monino in May 1951 he was made commander of a training regiment in the Stalingrad Military Aviation School based in Novosibirsk. Starting in December 1952 he was based in Estonia, where he served as a flight inspector of the 58th Fighter Aviation Corps until December 1955, after which he became a senior flight inspector in a training department, and from August 1958 until he retired from the military in mid 1959 he served as a senior flight navigator at the Yeisk Military Aviation School of Pilots. During his career he piloted the Yak-9, MiG-15, and MiG-17. From then to 1961 he worked at Vnukovo Airport, and from 1961 to 1962 he worked at the helicopter maintenance department for the Rassvet OKB design bureau. From 1962 to 1964 he was an inspector at a Moscow carburetor factory for the trade union city committee, and from 1963 to 1965 he was a senior engineer at the Mossanelectroprom trust. He briefly served as a senior engineer-economist in the planning department of the Ministry of Civil Aviation starting in February 1965, but left in September that year. In the first half of 1966 he worked as a senior engineer at the Ministry of Local Industry of the RSFSR, from 1966 to 1967 he was senior engineer of the technical department of the Central Union of Consumer Societies, and from 1967 to 1969 he was head of a department in the Ministry of Rural Construction of the RSFSR, having graduated from the Moscow Engineering and Economic Institute in 1968. For several months in 1969 he held the post of deputy head of a department in the Ministry of Agriculture, and later that year he worked as senior engineer of a trust in the Ministry of Communications. From 1970 to 1974 he worked at the technical documentation department of the Mosblorgtekhstroy trust. From 1974 to 1975 he worked as deputy head of the department for accounting and distribution of housing of the Bauman district council of Moscow, and after that he became a chief project engineer at the Mosblorgtekhstroy trust, where he rose to the position of deputy managing director before becoming a senior safety engineer at the Mossanelectroprom trust in 1982. He later worked as the deputy director of the Mosoblstroypogress State Unitary Enterprise, where he remained until retiring in 2004. He lived in Moscow for the remainder of his life, where he died on 28 December 2012 and was buried in the Troyekurovskoye cemetery.


== Awards ==
Hero of the Soviet Union (27 June 1945)
Order of Lenin (27 June 1945)
Three Order of the Red Banner (20 January 1943, 17 July 1944, and 25 April 1945)
Order of the Patriotic War 1st (11 March 1985) and 2nd class (26 February 1943)
Order of the Red Star (26 October 1955)
Medal "for Military Merit" (20 June 1949)
campaign and jubilee medals


== Footnotes ==


== References ==

Bochet is a type of mead made from honey that has been caramelized. The earliest known complete recipe for bochet is in the 1393 French book Le Ménagier de Paris. It became newly popular when a translation of the book was published in 2009.
Bochetomel is a bochet-style mead that also contains fruit such as elderberries, black raspberries, and blackberries.


== References ==

Medrano is a station on Line B of the Buenos Aires Underground. The station was opened on 17 October 1930 as part of the inaugural section of the line between Federico Lacroze and Callao.


== Overview ==
It is located in the Almagro barrio, at the intersection of Avenida Corrientes and Avenida Medrano, and named after the latter.
It is the nearest subway station to the National Technological University and the Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires.


== References ==


== External links ==
 Media related to Medrano (Buenos Aires Underground) at Wikimedia Commons

Hakan Akman (born 9 October 1989) is a Turkish professional footballer who plays as a forward for Kahta 02 Spor. Akman was also a youth international.


== References ==


== External links ==
Hakan Akman at www.mackolik.com (in Turkish)
Hakan Akman at Soccerway

John McCravy may refer to:

John R. McCravy (1907–1991), member of the South Carolina House of Representatives
John R. McCravy III (born 1958), his grandson, member of the South Carolina House of Representatives

Matthew Martin Rosendale Sr. (born July 7, 1960) is an American politician and former real estate developer who represented Montana in the United States House of Representatives from 2021 to 2025. A member of the Republican Party, Rosendale served in the Montana House of Representatives from 2011 to 2013, and in the Montana Senate from 2013 to 2017. From 2015 to 2017, he served as Montana Senate majority leader. Rosendale was elected Montana state auditor in 2016 and held that position from 2017 to 2020. Rosendale ran unsuccessfully for the U.S. House of Representatives in 2014 and for the U.S. Senate in 2018. He was elected to represent Montana's at-large congressional district in 2020. After Montana regained its second House seat in the 2020 census, Rosendale was elected to represent its new 2nd congressional district in 2022.
On February 9, 2024, Rosendale announced his candidacy for the 2024 U.S. Senate race, looking to challenge Jon Tester again. Six days later, Rosendale withdrew from the race after Donald Trump endorsed his opponent, Tim Sheehy, in the Republican primary. Rosendale chose to run for re-election to his House seat, but withdrew from that race as well in March 2024.


== Early life and early career ==
Rosendale was born on July 7, 1960, in Baltimore, Maryland. He graduated from Queen Anne's County High School in Centreville, Maryland, in 1978. Rosendale attended Chesapeake College in Maryland but did not graduate. He was one of three sitting Representatives who hasn't attended college, the other two being Lauren Boebert and Mike Bost.
Rosendale worked in Maryland in the fields of real estate development and land management before moving with his family to Glendive, Montana, in 2002. In Montana, he was twice elected chairman of the Glendive Agri-Trade Expo committee, a local group that puts on an agriculture exposition showcasing agri-business in eastern Montana.


== Political career ==


=== Montana House of Representatives ===
Rosendale served one two-year term in the Montana House of Representatives.
Rosendale announced he would run for the Montana House of Representatives to represent House District 38, which covers Wibaux and part of Dawson County. Also seeking the Republican nomination were Edward Hilbert and Alan Doane. Rosendale prevailed, receiving 48.4% of the vote to Doane's 41.3% and Hilbert's 10.4%.
Rosendale defeated Democratic incumbent State Representative Dennis Getz in the general election, with 52.7% of the vote to Getz's 47.3%.
During the 2011 legislative session, Rosendale served on several committees, including the Business and Labor Committee, the Transportation Committee, and the Local Government Committee.


=== Montana Senate ===
Rosendale served one four-year term in the Montana Senate from 2013 to 2017. From 2015 to 2017, he served as majority leader.
In 2012, with state senator Donald Steinbeisser ineligible for reelection due to term limits, Rosendale announced he would run for the Montana Senate to represent Senate District 19, a heavily Republican district in eastern Montana.
After running unopposed in the Republican primary, Rosendale defeated Democratic nominee Fred Lake in the general election, with 67.6% of the vote to Lake's 32.4%.
During the 2013 legislative session, Rosendale served as vice chair of the Natural Resources and Transportation Committee. He also served on the Finance and Claims Committee, the Highways and Transportation Committee and the Natural Resources Committee. During this legislative session, Rosendale was the primary sponsor of a resolution urging Congress to submit a balanced budget amendment to states. He also was the primary sponsor of a bill that became law to prevent law enforcement from using drones for surveillance purposes.
Due to state redistricting in 2014, Rosendale represented Senate District 18 for the rest of his tenure, starting in 2015. At the beginning of the 2015 legislative session, Rosendale's colleagues in the State Senate elected him to serve as majority leader. He also chaired the Rules Committee and was a member of the Finance and Claims Committee and Natural Resources and Transportation Committee. Rosendale was the primary sponsor of a bill to authorize direct primary care provider plans that passed the legislature before being vetoed by Governor Steve Bullock.


=== Montana State Auditor ===


==== Elections ====
Rosendale ran for Montana State Auditor in 2016, when incumbent Monica Lindeen was ineligible for reelection due to term limits.
Rosendale ran unopposed in the Republican primary. In the general election, he faced Jesse Laslovich, who was Lindeen's chief legal counsel and widely considered one of Montana's rising political stars.
Rosendale defeated Laslovich with 53.6% of the vote to Laslovich's 46.4%. At the time, this was the most expensive state auditor's race in Montana state history.


==== Tenure ====
Rosendale served as Montana state auditor from 2017 to 2020. As state auditor, Rosendale approved direct primary care agreements and authorized Medi-Share to operate in Montana. Medi-Share, a health care sharing ministry which asks members of a religious faith to pool money together to cover their health care costs, had previously been banned from operating in Montana after the company refused to cover a member's medical bills. In authorizing Medi-Share to operate in Montana, Rosendale determined that the company did not qualify as an insurer and had no obligation to pay subscribers' bills.
Rosendale refused to accept a pay raise, taking an annual salary of $92,236.
As state auditor, Rosendale was also one of five members of the Montana State Land Board, which oversees the 5.2 million acres in the state trust land. As a member of the Montana State Land Board, Rosendale voted to expand access to over 45,000 acres (18,000 ha) of public land.
In 2017, Rosendale proposed legislation that would create a reinsurance program so that individuals with preexisting conditions could access affordable health coverage. This legislation passed both houses of the legislature before being vetoed by Governor Steve Bullock. Rosendale condemned Bullock's veto, saying, "the governor has sacrificed good, bipartisan policy in favor of bad, partisan politics." Rosendale then worked with a bipartisan group of Montana officials to create a reinsurance program and were granted a waiver to do so by the federal government. The program is now operational.
In 2019, Rosendale proposed legislation targeting pharmacy benefits managers and a practice known as spread pricing. The legislation passed both houses of the legislature before being vetoed by Bullock, who wrote in his veto message that the bill would cause drug prices to increase. Rosendale again condemned Bullock, saying his veto "is a gift to the pharmaceutical and insurance industries and it's a slap in the face to consumers."


=== U.S. House of Representatives ===


==== 2014 election ====

In 2013, incumbent representative Steve Daines announced that he would not seek reelection and would instead run for the United States Senate. Rosendale then announced his candidacy to succeed Daines in the U.S. House of Representatives. In addition to Rosendale, the Republican field included former state senators Ryan Zinke and Corey Stapleton, state representative Elsie Arntzen, and real estate investor Drew Turiano.
Rosendale came in third place with 28.8% of the vote, behind Zinke's 33.3% and Stapleton's 29.3%. Arntzen and Turiano received 6.9% and 1.7%, respectively.


==== 2020 election ====

In June 2019, Representative Greg Gianforte announced that he would not seek reelection and would instead run for governor to replace term-limited governor Steve Bullock. Days later, Rosendale announced he would run for the open seat.
Rosendale received the early endorsement of President Donald Trump. He also received early endorsements from elected officials around the country, including Senator Ted Cruz, Senator Rand Paul, House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy, House Republican Whip Steve Scalise and Representative Jim Jordan, as well as the endorsement of the Crow Tribe of Montana. He won the six-way Republican primary with 48.3% of the vote, carrying every county.
Rosendale defeated Democratic nominee Kathleen Williams in the general election in November, with 56.4% of the vote to her 43.6%.


==== 2022 election ====

As a result of the 2020 census and redistricting cycle, Montana regained a congressional district having had a single at-large district since 1993. Rosendale ran for reelection in the reconstituted second district, which covers the eastern two-thirds of the state and includes Billings, Great Falls, and Helena.
Rosendale again received Trump's endorsement and won the 2022 Republican primary in the second district. He won the general election with 56.6% of the vote to Independent Gary Buchanan's 22.0% and Democrat Penny Ronning's 20.1%.


==== Tenure ====
Rosendale was sworn in as a member of the House of Representatives on January 3, 2021.
Along with all other Senate and House Republicans, Rosendale voted against the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021.
In July 2021, Rosendale voted against the bipartisan ALLIES Act, which would increase by 8,000 the number of special immigrant visas for Afghan allies of the U.S. military during its invasion of Afghanistan, while also reducing some application requirements that caused long application backlogs; the bill passed in the House 407–16.
Rosendale supported a ban on members of Congress trading stocks.
In June 2021, Rosendale was one of 49 House Republicans to vote to repeal the AUMF against Iraq.
Rosendale issued a statement opposing intervention in Ukraine during the prelude to the Russian invasion. Later, he sponsored the Secure America's Border First Act, which would prohibit the expenditure or obligation of military and security assistance to Kyiv over the U.S. border with Mexico.
On March 2, 2022, Rosendale was one of only three House members to vote against a resolution supporting the sovereignty of Ukraine in the face of the Russian invasion.
In 2022, Rosendale voted against a bill that would provide approximately $14 billion to the government of Ukraine.
In July 2022, Rosendale was one of 18 Republicans to vote against ratifying Sweden's and Finland's applications for NATO membership.
In March 2023, Rosendale was among 47 Republicans to vote in favor of H.Con.Res. 21 which directed President Joe Biden to remove U.S. troops from Syria within 180 days.
On March 1, 2023, Rosendale posed for a photo in front of the United States Capitol with a former member of a white supremacist gang and a Nazi sympathizer. Rosendale later affirmed his opposition to hate groups and stated that he did not know the two individuals or their affiliations when he was photographed with them.
On October 3, 2023, Florida Republican Representative Matt Gaetz filed a motion to vacate the House speakership of California Republican Kevin McCarthy. The measure prevailed as 216 were in favor and 210 opposed. It was the first time ever the House of Representatives had removed its speaker from office. All voting House Democrats plus Rosendale and seven other Republicans cast votes for his removal.
On March 19, 2024, Rosendale voted nay on House Resolution 149, which condemned the illegal abduction and forcible transfer of children from Ukraine to the Russian Federation. He was one of nine Republicans to do so.


==== Committee assignments ====
Committee on Veterans Affairs
Subcommittee on Health
Subcommittee on Technology Modernization (Ranking Member)
Committee on Natural Resources
Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests and Public Lands
Subcommittee on Indigenous Peoples of the United States


==== Caucus memberships ====
Freedom Caucus
Republican Study Committee


=== U.S. Senate ===


==== 2018 election ====

In 2017, Rosendale announced he would seek the Republican nomination to challenge two-term incumbent Democratic senator Jon Tester.
In a competitive four-way primary, Rosendale faced district judge Russell Fagg, state senator Al Olszewski, and combat veteran Troy Downing. Rosendale won the Republican primary with 33.8% of the vote to Fagg's 28.3%, Downing's 19.1% and Olszewski's 18.7%.
After the primary, Rosendale was endorsed by President Donald Trump and Vice President Mike Pence. Trump visited the state to campaign for Rosendale four times, while Pence visited three times.
During his 2018 campaign, Rosendale faced criticism for repeatedly presenting himself as a "rancher" in interviews and campaign materials despite owning no cattle or a cattle brand according to public records. Critics labelled Rosendale "all hat, no cattle". Rosendale, who bought a $2 million ranch near Glendive when he moved to Montana in 2002, said he leased his land and helps run cattle on it. Rosendale later removed the "rancher" label from bios on his website and social media accounts.
Polls showed the race in a statistical tie going into Election Day, in what was the most expensive election in Montana history, with more than $70 million spent between the two sides. Tester's campaign had a huge cash advantage, raising and spending $21 million to Rosendale's $6 million.
In the general election, Tester won 50.3% of the vote to Rosendale's 46.8%, with Libertarian candidate Rick Breckenridge taking 2.9%.


==== 2024 election ====

In August 2023, Politico reported that Rosendale was "moving closer" to running for U.S. Senate in 2024. He officially entered the race on February 9, 2024; Trump endorsed a different candidate hours later, and Rosendale dropped out a week later.
Shortly after Rosendale dropped out of the race, Heidi Heitkamp, a former Democratic senator from North Dakota, alleged on an episode of the "Talking Feds" podcast that Rosendale may have impregnated a 20-year-old staffer, and would likely resign from the House as a result. Heitkamp did not present evidence for these claims. Ron Kovach, a Rosendale spokesman, rejected the accusation as false and defamatory, and stated that Heitkamp would be the target of legal action. On March 8, 2024, Rosendale announced that he would also not run for reelection to his House seat, saying that "defamatory rumors" and alleged death threats had impeded his ability to serve.


== Personal life ==
Rosendale and his wife Jean reside on a ranch north of Glendive. They have three adult children. Their son, Adam Rosendale, served briefly in the Montana Legislature in 2017.
Rosendale has served as head of his local Catholic parish council.


== Electoral history ==


=== 2010 ===


=== 2012 ===


=== 2014 ===


=== 2016 ===


=== 2018 ===


=== 2020 ===


=== 2022 ===


== References ==


== External links ==

Representative Matt Rosendale official U.S. House website
Matt Rosendale for Congress

Biography at the Biographical Directory of the United States Congress
Financial information (federal office) at the Federal Election Commission
Legislation sponsored at the Library of Congress
Profile at Vote Smart
Appearances on C-SPAN

Rudolf Wolters (3 August 1903 – 7 January 1983) was a German architect and government official, known for his longtime association with fellow architect and Third Reich official Albert Speer.  A friend and subordinate of Speer, Wolters received the many papers which were smuggled out of Spandau Prison for Speer while he was imprisoned there, and kept them for him until Speer was released in 1966.  After Speer's release, the friendship slowly collapsed, Wolters objecting strongly to Speer's blaming of Hitler and other Nazis for the Holocaust and World War II, and they saw nothing of each other in the decade before Speer's death in 1981.
Wolters, who was born to a Catholic middle-class family in the northern German town of Coesfeld, obtained his degree and doctorate in architecture from the Technische Hochschule in Charlottenburg (now Technische Universität Berlin), forging a close friendship with Speer while a student.  After receiving his doctorate, he had difficulty finding employment prior to the Nazi rise to power.  From 1933 to 1937, he worked for the Reichsbahn.  In 1937, Speer hired him as a department head, and Wolters soon took major responsibility for Hitler's plan for the large scale reconstruction of Berlin.  When Speer became Minister of Armaments and War Production in 1942, Wolters moved to his department, remaining his close associate.
After Speer's indictment and imprisonment for war crimes, Wolters stood by him.  In addition to receiving and organizing Speer's clandestine notes from Spandau, which later served as the basis of his best-selling books of memoirs, Wolters quietly raised money for Speer.  These funds were used to support Speer's family and for other purposes, according to directions which Wolters received from his former superior.  Following Speer's release in 1966, their friendship gradually deteriorated, until the two men became so embittered that Wolters allowed papers demonstrating Speer's knowledge of the persecution of the Jews to become public in 1980.
Wolters was involved in the reconstruction of West Germany following World War II, rebuilding his hometown of Coesfeld among many other projects.  Wolters wrote several architectural books during the war, as well as a biography of Speer.


== Early life ==
Wolters was born into a Catholic family in Coesfeld, Germany on 3 August 1903, the son of an architect who had married the daughter of a master carpenter in the shipbuilding trade.  In his privately published memoirs, Segments of a Life, Wolters described his father as "a serious, conscientious and diligent man, always concerned about the future".  Wolters regarded his mother as "a highly practical woman, full of zest for life, who in hard times thought nothing of serving a delicious roast without letting on it was horsemeat".  Wolters passed a generally happy childhood, punctuated by the chaos of the war years, and by a childhood illness that resulted in his being taught at home for a year by two priests.

After passing his Abitur, or secondary school examination, he began his architectural studies at the Technische Hochschule in Munich (now Technical University of Munich) in 1923.  Wolters noted the politicized atmosphere of his student days, stating, "My academic freedom began, one might say, to the sound of drums: the Hitler Putsch and its consequences to us students, most of whom were in agreement with it."  Wolters, by his own admission, was in broad sympathy with Nazi aims, though he never saw a need to join the Party.
In 1924, Wolters met Albert Speer, who was a year behind him. Wolters transferred to the Technische Hochschule Charlottenburg later that year, followed by Speer in 1925.  Wolters sought to study under Professor Hans Poelzig, but there was no room in the course for the transfer student.  Instead, Wolters studied under Heinrich Tessenow, as did Speer.  Wolters obtained his degree in 1927, and earned his doctorate at the school two years later.  In class prize competition, Wolters generally finished second to Speer.
Wolters' graduation coincided with the start of the Great Depression, and he had great difficulty finding a job, eventually settling for an unpaid position at Reichsbahn headquarters in Berlin in 1930.  Upon losing that position the following year, Wolters accepted a position with the Trans-Siberian Railway's urban planning division in Novosibirsk.


== Nazi era ==
In 1933, Wolters returned to Berlin, where he briefly worked as an assistant in Speer's office before returning to the Reichsbahn, this time getting paid for his work.  Speer had forged a close relationship with Hitler, and in late 1936, Speer informed Wolters that the dictator would soon appoint Speer as Generalbauinspektor (GBI) or General Building Inspector for the Reich Capital, and suggested that Wolters resign his post with the railway and come work for him again.  Wolters did so, beginning work at the GBI office in January 1937 as a Head of Department in the Planning Bureau.  Wolters was one of a number of young, well-paid assistants of Speer at the GBI, who were collectively nicknamed "Speer's Kindergarten".  Most of the Kindergarteners were not Nazi Party members, since Speer found that Party duties interfered with working time, and the Kindergarten was expected to work long hours.  Speer had Hitler's permission to hire non-Nazis, so the GBI became something of a political sanctuary.

Wolters later wrote of his views at this time:

I had viewed Hitler and his movement with some skepticism, but when the abolition of the multi-party mess removed the obscenity of unemployment, and the first 1,000 kilometers of autobahns opened up a new era of mobility, I too saw the light: this was the time when Churchill said he hoped Great Britain would have a man like Hitler in time of peril, and when high church dignitaries and distinguished academics paid the Führer homage.

Much of Wolters' work at the GBI was connected to Hitler's plan for the large scale reconstruction of Berlin. The dictator had placed Speer in charge of this plan.  The centerpiece of the scheme was a grand boulevard, 4.8 kilometres (3.0 mi) long, dubbed by Speer as the Prachtstrasse (Street of Magnificence) or "North–South Axis", for which the main design responsibility was delegated to Wolters.  Wolters was also responsible for transport rings in the new Berlin, for museums, and for the GBI's press office.  In 1939, Wolters became responsible for the architecture portion of the magazine, Die Kunst im Deutschen Reich (Art in the German Reich).
Wolters made several trips abroad in connection with his duties for the GBI.  He visited the United States to study advanced transport systems, and Paris for the 1937 international exposition there.  In 1939, Joseph Goebbels appointed him Exhibition Commissioner.  Wolters took charge of organizing German architectural exhibits presented in other countries.  Until 1943, Wolters traveled to other European capitals, and in addition to his duties as commissioner, gathered political intelligence.  On his return, Wolters passed along his insights to Speer and some of these thoughts reached Hitler's ears.
In 1940, Wolters, a longtime diarist, suggested to Speer that he begin keeping a Chronik, or chronicle of the GBI's activities.  Speer agreed, and instructed department heads to send Wolters raw material for the Chronik on a regular basis.  Among other matters, the Chronik detailed the GBI's responsibility for administering a 1939 amendment to the Nuremberg Laws which allowed Aryan landlords to evict Jewish tenants with virtually no notice.  For example, the entry for August 1941 included this information: "According to a Speer directive a further action for the clearing of some five thousand Jewish flats is being started." The November entry noted that "roughly 4,500 Jews were evacuated".  The dispossessed Jews were sent to the occupied territories, with the newspapers reporting, as directed by Goebbels: "Over the past few days many Jews have hurriedly left Germany, leaving debts behind them."
Wolters was given the additional task in 1941 of setting up a special section of the government publishing house which specialized in works of architecture.  Wolters wrote several books on the Third Reich's architectural works during the war years. He rejected the notion that Nazi architecture was an imitation of classical models: "Those who speak of neo-classicism have not understood the spirit of our buildings."

In February 1942, following the death of Fritz Todt, Hitler appointed Speer as Minister of Armaments and War Production.  Wolters followed Speer to his new ministry, becoming head of the Department of Culture, Media, and Propaganda of the Organization Todt.  Wolters continued his Chronik in the new position.
In December 1943, Speer put Wolters in charge of planning for the reconstruction of bombed German cities.  Wolters organized a working group of about twenty architects and city planners, mostly from northern Germany.  The work of this group, known as the Arbeitsstab Wiederaufbauplanung (Task Force for Reconstruction Planning), would form the basis for the actual postwar reconstruction of Germany.  Speer, who authorized the group, saw an opportunity to make German cities more habitable in the age of the automobile.  The group sought solutions which would use the existing street system, rather than the grand ceremonial boulevards common in Nazi city planning.  In addition, the Arbeitsstab issued extensive guidelines, ranging from the width of avenues that carried streetcar lines to the ratio of theatre seats to inhabitants.
Wolters rarely met Hitler, and only in the company of other members of Speer's office.  He later recorded,

Of course, from these few experiences, I cannot judge Hitler's personality, but having shared with Speer his virtually daily contacts with him, and being familiar with Hitler's ideas, for example, on town planning, I think that commentators are making it easy for themselves now when, as they frequently do, they resort in their descriptions to simplistic epitaphs such as "buck private", "wall painter", "petit-bourgeois philistine", or "history's greatest criminal".

Wolters' longtime secretary, Marion Riesser, was half-Jewish, and Wolters protected her throughout the war.  In late 1944, word reached them that those with Jewish ancestry who remained free would be called up and used for cannon fodder.  Wolters met with Riesser and the three other half-Jews in the Speer organizations, telling them if it became necessary (which it did not), the four would be transferred to essential war factories where they would be safe.  Wolters told them, "With Albert Speer's help one can do anything."
In February 1945, as the Nazi regime collapsed, Speer instructed Wolters to take other high-ranking officials in his department, including Heinrich Lübke, and set up architectural offices in the north of Germany to work on large-scale prefabricated housing.  Speer expected to join them, but not then, as he anticipated that the Allies would want to use his expertise towards the reconstruction of Germany.  This did not come to pass; Speer was arrested and charged with war crimes.


== After the war ==


=== Architectural work ===

As Speer had instructed, Wolters set up a small office in the North German town of Höxter with Lübke, who knew the town's mayor.  The new office was soon commissioned to rebuild a bridge which had been destroyed, contrary to Speer's instructions to preserve infrastructure.  Later in 1945, the office was dissolved, and Wolters returned to his hometown of Coesfeld where he had been commissioned to rebuild the ruined city.  Lübke instead turned to politics, rising quickly through the political ranks of postwar Germany.  In 1959, Lübke became President of the Federal Republic of Germany, a position in which he served almost ten years before he resigned over questions about what he may have known about forced labor while working in Speer's department.
Wolters was forced to rebuild in Coesfeld almost from scratch.  With the widespread destruction, he had to lay out lots and rebuild streets, all without delay.  He built a road through the grounds of the local castle, and converted the building into a hotel and conference center.  The versatility he showed in the rebuilding of Coesfeld led to other commissions from German cities, including Rheine, Borken and Anholt.
In 1947 and 1949, Wolters organized meetings of the former Arbeitsstab members, many of whom were intensively involved in the postwar reconstruction efforts.  In 1950, Wolters won a competition to design the new police headquarters in Dortmund.  The Hotel Königshof in Bonn, rebuilt by Wolters, had previously been the leading hotel in the city.  It reopened by hosting the President of Italy in 1956 on his state visit, and again became the leading hotel in the then-capital of the Federal Republic, hosting heads of state (including U.S. Presidents Kennedy, Nixon, and Reagan), state dinners, and events hosted by the Chancellor of Germany.
Wolters received so many commissions from the government of North Rhine-Westphalia that he opened an additional office in Düsseldorf.  In 1955, Wolters won a competition to design the Industrie-Kreditbank building in Düsseldorf.  Two years later, he was again successful in that city in a competition to design the Galarie Conzen.  Wolters was awarded a prize for his design to reconstruct Düsseldorf's Altstadt (Old City).  His son, Fritz Wolters, also an architect, described him as a man who fought uncompromisingly for what he saw as the "whole" in urban planning, and once ended a discussion with a local committee with the remark that they had "rented his head, not his pencil". Wolters also considered himself to be a "functionalist", designing a number of concrete, flat roofed, modern hospitals.
In the 1960s, Wolters and his son shared an office until their architectural differences separated them, Fritz Wolters being more interested in the small details rather than in what he described as "epoch-making" solutions. However, their personal relationship survived this professional separation. In 1978, Wolters published a book on the town centre of Berlin, but despite suggestions from his son, he declined to include his views about Nazi architecture, and never did set forth such views to his colleagues.


=== Association with Speer ===


==== Spandau years ====
Wolters did not attend the Nuremberg trial (he later described it as a "victor's court" and as a "show trial") but wrote to Speer in January 1946, during the trial: "I stand by you in misfortune as in the good days.  I believe as before in your lucky star."  On 10 August, as the trial approached its conclusion, Speer, anticipating the likelihood of a death sentence, wrote to Wolters asking him to "collect my work together for later ages and to recount much of my life.  I think it will be honored one day."  Despite his forebodings, Speer did not receive the death sentence, but on 1 October 1946 was given a sentence of twenty years in prison, and on 18 July 1947 was transferred to Spandau Prison to serve it.
Wolters and longtime Speer secretary Annemarie Kempf, while not permitted direct communication with Speer in Spandau, did what they could to help his family and carry out the requests Speer put in letters to his wife—the only written communication officially allowed Speer.  Beginning in 1948, Speer had the services of a sympathetic Dutch orderly to smuggle mail.  In 1949, Wolters opened a special bank account for Speer, the Schulgeldkonto or "School Fund Account", and began fundraising among those architects and industrialists who had benefited from Speer's activities during the war.  At first the funds were used only to support Speer's family, but as the amounts grew and Speer's family became increasingly able to support itself, the money was used for everything from vacations for Speer's Spandau conduit, Toni Proost, to bribes for those who might be able to secure Speer's release.  Once Speer became aware of the existence of the fund, he would often send detailed instructions about what to do with the money.  Wolters raised a total of DM158,000 for Speer over the final seventeen years of his sentence.

In 1951, with secret means of communications established, Wolters sent his first letter to Speer in five years.  He suggested that Speer move ahead with his memoirs.  In January 1953, Speer began work on his draft memoirs, and over the next year lengthy missives, sometimes written on tobacco wrappings or candy wrappers but most often on toilet paper, made their way to Wolters' office in Coesfeld.  Marion Riesser, who had continued as Wolters' secretary as he began private architectural practice, transcribed these notes into as many as forty closely typed pages per missive, and the draft totalled 1,100 pages.  Wolters objected that Speer called Hitler a criminal in the draft, and Speer presciently observed that he would likely lose a good many friends were the memoirs ever to be published.  Wolters had come to believe that reports of Nazi genocide were exaggerated by a factor of at least ten, that Hitler had not been given credit for the things he did right and that Germany had been harshly treated by the Allies.
In the mid-1950s, Wolters quarrelled with Kempf who effectively dropped out of the network for a number of years, adding to the burden on Wolters and Riesser.  While Speer's pleas for his former associate and his former secretary to work together eventually brought about a healing of the breach, this was to some degree superficial as Kempf was aware that Wolters, even then, disagreed with Speer's opinions.  Wolters questioned Speer's readiness to accept responsibility for the Nazi regime's excesses and did not believe Speer had anything to apologise for, though the strength of his feelings on this point was kept from Speer—but not from Kempf and Riesser.
Wolters was tireless in his efforts on behalf of Speer and his family to such an extent that his son, Fritz, later expressed feelings of neglect.  For Speer's fiftieth birthday in March 1955, Wolters gathered letters from many of Speer's friends and wartime associates, and saw to it that they made their way inside the walls of Spandau in time for Speer's birthday.  Wolters gave Speer's son Albert a summer job in his Düsseldorf office and a place to stay—in fact, Wolters hosted all six of the Speer children at one time or another.  By prior arrangement, he and Speer tried to get in touch with each other by telepathy one New Year's Eve—but both men fell asleep before midnight struck.
Wolters constantly sought Speer's early release, which required the consent of the four occupying powers.  He engaged Düsseldorf attorney, and later state minister, Werner Schütz to lobby high German officials to get them to advocate Speer's release.  Schütz, who refused to ask for his expenses, was unsuccessful even though Lübke, West German President for the last seven years of Speer's incarceration, had worked under Speer.  Wolters had more success fending off denazification proceedings against Speer, collecting many affidavits in Speer's favor, including one from Tessenow whom Speer had shielded during the war.  Those proceedings dragged on for years, and were eventually ended by order of Willy Brandt, a strong supporter of Speer's.
As early as 1956, Wolters feared the effect that disclosure of the GBI's eviction of Jewish tenants might have on Speer.  Wolters wrote to Kempf concerning the denazification proceedings, "I am only anxious about the matter of the clearance of Jew-flats in Berlin.  That could be a bullseye.  And this is the point to which the defense should direct itself ..."  In 1964, Speer mentioned to Wolters in a letter that he would need the Chronik as a reference in revising his memoirs upon his release.  Wolter's response was to have Riesser retype the entire Chronik, leaving out any mention of the GBI's involvement in the persecution of the Jews, without telling Speer what he was doing.  Wolters later wrote that he did this to correct mistakes, to leave out extraneous matters, and "above all to delete certain parts on the basis of which Speer and one or another of his colleagues could still have been prosecuted.  The Ludwigsburg Central office for 'war crimes' was still at work and an end of the persecution of National Socialists was not in sight."
In April 1965, with only eighteen months left of Speer's sentence, Wolters wrote to him of their prospective reunion, "[I]t will have been twenty years since I saw you last.  What will there be between us old codgers, aside of course from happy memories of skiing tours in the long distant past[?] ... Will you come to me mainly to take receipt of the promised gift I have held for you in our cellar—that long cured Westphalian ham, and those patiently waiting bottles of your favorite nectar: Johannisberger 1937?  Could these things of the senses end up being all that there is between us?  I am so happy that the moment approaches, but my heart is heavy ..."
According to Riesser, she thought that Wolters "was frightened of the reality of Speer". However, Kempf thought Wolters wished Speer ill.  Speer was unaware of the depth of Wolters' feelings, and later told his biographer-to-be Joachim Fest that Wolters was the closest friend he had.  Speer added that during the Spandau years, Wolters performed invaluable services for him and that he did not know how he would have survived Spandau without Wolters' assistance.
Throughout the latter part of Speer's imprisonment, Wolters was a faithful correspondent, writing lengthy letters to Speer at least once a month, attempting to tell Speer everything that might interest him but nothing that might hurt him.  When Speer invented the concept of his "world wide walk", imagining his daily exercise around the prison yard to be segments in a long walk from Europe through Asia to North America, Wolters supplied Speer with details of what he would "see".  Speer later stated, "In a manner of speaking, Rudi Wolters accompanied me on these walks."  As midnight struck and 1 October 1966 began, Speer was released from Spandau Prison. His last use of the clandestine message system was to have a telegram sent to Wolters, in which Speer jokingly asked Wolters to pick him up thirty-five kilometres south of Guadalajara, Mexico, which he had "reached" after walking 31,936 kilometres.


==== Deterioration of relationship ====

After spending two weeks with his family, Speer came to Coesfeld to visit Wolters in October 1966.  Shortly before Speer's visit, Annemarie Kempf had visited Wolters in Coesfeld to ask him not to allow his differences with Speer to affect their first meeting. Wolters responded that he and Speer were "too far apart".  The visit was quickly marred by Speer's insistence on inviting industrialist Ernst Wolf Mommsen to Wolters' home instead of allowing a one-on-one reunion.  According to Wolters' son Fritz, his father was furious and hurt by the perceived slight.  While the actual meeting was casual and cordial (in addition to the long-promised ham and wine, Wolters turned over all of the accumulated papers from Speer, the censored copy of the Chronik and the remaining balance of DM25,000 in the School Fund Account), Wolters later wrote, "I knew that day of that first still merry reunion that the Spandau friendship was over.  As he stood there, in person, I saw him suddenly quite differently than I had previously."
Wolters was perturbed by an interview with Speer published in Der Spiegel in November 1966, in which Speer, while again taking responsibility for crimes of the Nazi era, blamed Hitler, rather than Germany, for starting World War II. Wolters wrote to Speer on 30 November, describing Speer's assignment of blame as a "dangerous oversimplification made entirely from today's perspective ... You will surely remember that in 1939 we were all of the opinion that Hitler was Germany. Although we were certainly depressed rather than enthusiastic about the war in Poland, we surely considered that the responsibility for it was to be found in the provocative conduct by the Poles, and it was the British who made of it a world war." Wolters asked Speer to "concentrate wholly on what really happened, leaving aside what the world thinks of it now".
Their relationship was further embittered by Speer's failure to mention Wolters by name in Speer's first book based on the Spandau material, Inside the Third Reich.  Speer's initial draft of the book, written while in Spandau, does mention his "old university friend, Dr. Rudolf Wolters, to whom was assigned the most essential task, the Prachtstrasse" in connection with the Berlin project.  However, Wolters' name appears nowhere in the published version, and no mention is made of Wolters' help, essential to the writing and preservation of the draft memoir.  Speer later told his future biographer, Gitta Sereny, that he did so to protect Wolters, since it might have been risky for Wolters to have been known to have assisted an imprisoned war criminal.  Sereny notes in her biography of Speer that it would not have been in Speer's interest to have publicized Wolter's assistance, given the growing disagreement between them over Speer's statements.  Wolter's son, Fritz, suggested that had Speer mentioned Wolters even once, "it would have made all the difference", since it would have shown that Speer acknowledged the debt he owed Wolters for his efforts during his incarceration.
After the German edition of Inside the Third Reich was published in late 1969, Speer proposed a visit to the embittered Wolters in Coesfeld.  Wolters advised against it, sarcastically suggesting that he was surprised that the author did not "walk through life in a hair shirt, distributing his fortune among the victims of National Socialism, forswear all the vanities and pleasures of life and live on locusts and wild honey".  Nevertheless, Wolters expressed a willingness to meet, proposing (rather pointedly) a meeting at Wolters' house on 19 November, Buß- und Bettag, the day of penance and prayer for German Protestants.  Speer duly visited, and as the two sat down to lunch, enquired, "Where are the locusts?"
With research concluded upon Inside the Third Reich, Speer had donated the edited Chronik to the German Federal Archives in Koblenz in July 1969.  David Irving compared the donated Chronik with a copy of the Chronik for 1943 in the Imperial War Museum in London, and discovered discrepancies.  Irving asked the Archives and Speer the reason for the differences (which were minor compared with previous years).  Speer requested an explanation from Wolters, and Wolters admitted the censorship by letter in January 1970, saying, "I wouldn't have put it past the Ludwigsbergern [German war crimes prosecutors] to launch an additional prosecution against you on the pretext that this charge [of evicting the Jews] was not included in the Nuremberg Indictment."  Speer suggested that the pages of the Chronik dealing with the Jews should not exist, and informed the Archives that the original of the Chronik, from which the copy given to the Archives had been made, had disappeared.  Wolters did not destroy the original as Speer had hinted.
Wolters' anger towards Speer burst into the open in 1971 after Speer did a lengthy interview for Playboy, in which he again took responsibility for Nazi crimes and blamed Hitler and his associates for the war.

What is the matter with you that, that even after the unending admissions of guilt in [Inside the Third Reich] you cannot stop representing yourself ever more radically as a criminal for whom twenty years in prison was "too little"? ... there appears to be a vast and incomprehensible discrepancy between your humble confessions and your present way of life.  For the former would lead one to expect a Speer in sackcloth and ashes; I, however, know you as a merry fellow who undertakes one lovely journey after another and who happily regales his old chums with tales of his literary and financial successes ... [Y]our accusations against your former colleagues (Göring, Goebbels, Bormann, etc.) who, being dead, cannot defend themselves are agony to me ... I hope and think that the day will come when you will no longer find it necessary to confess your guilt to all and sundry in order to persuade yourself of your virtue.

Wolters concluded his letter with a suggestion that they avoid seeing each other in future, a suggestion with which Speer concurred. In spite of this, Wolters' wife Erika remained close friends with Margarete Speer, Albert Speer's wife.  The two men had Christmas presents delivered to each other every year (Wolters sent Speer a ham, while receiving a pot of honey).  Speer admitted that because he had had few friends, the estrangement hurt.
In 1975, Wolters attempted a reconciliation, sending Speer a letter for his seventieth birthday in March.  Speer responded emotionally, pledging to come visit Wolters at the slightest hint.  Speer wrote again two months later, telling Wolters that "despite all inherent contradictions, I am very attached to you".  Nevertheless, the two men never met again.
Even in Speer's second book of memoirs, Spandau: The Secret Diaries, Wolters' name is not mentioned, and his hometown is changed; the text refers to him as Speer's "Coburg friend".  Speer sent Wolters a copy of the book anyway, though Speer stated that he thought it likely that Wolters would let it sit in his bookcase unread.  Wolters responded sarcastically in a letter which he signed, "Duke of Coburg," "I forgive you for not 'localizing' me in the diaries after your modest restraint in [Inside the Third Reich].  The author of the [Chronik], the temporary 'best friend', and the indefatigable contact for Spandau remains nonexistent."


== Later life and death ==
Wolters bequeathed his papers to the Federal Archives, ensuring the record would be corrected one day.  However, in late 1979, Speer was approached by Matthias Schmidt, a doctoral student, who sought answers to a number of questions for use in preparing his thesis.  After answering Schmidt's questions, Speer referred Schmidt to Wolters for further information.  Wolters took a liking to Schmidt, and showed him both the original Chronik and the correspondence in which Wolters had informed Speer of the censoring of the record.  When confronted by Schmidt with this information, Speer both denied knowledge of the censorship and stated that the correspondence was not genuine.  While Speer pledged not to take legal action against Schmidt for using the disputed papers (after obtaining his doctorate, Schmidt published his thesis as a book, Albert Speer: The End of a Myth), he made no such promise regarding Wolters.  Speer published a formal revocation of a power of attorney he had given Wolters while in Spandau and disputed on legal grounds  Wolters' right to the Chronik and other papers.  The dispute was only ended by Speer's sudden death in London in September 1981.
Wolters died in January 1983 after a long illness.  According to his son Fritz, his final word was "Albert".  He had donated many of his papers to the Archives in 1982; after Wolters died, Riesser, as his literary executor, donated the remainder.


== Notes ==


== Books in German ==
Spezialist in Sibirien, Berlin: Wendt & Matthes Verlag, 1933.
Die Neue Reichskanzlei : Architekt Albert Speer, with  Heinrich Wolff. Munich: Zentralverlag der NSDAP, 1940.
Neue deutsche Baukunst, with Albert Speer.  Berlin: Volk und Reich, 1943.
Albert Speer, Oldenburg: Stalling, 1943.
Vom Beruf des Baumeisters, Berlin: Volk und Reich, 1944.
Coesfeld Fragen und Antworten eines Städtebauers, Coesfeld: Kreisverwaltung, 1974.
Stadtmitte Berlin, Tübingen: Wasmuth, 1978. ISBN 978-3-8030-0130-6


== References ==
von Buttlar, Adrian (2005), ""Germanic" structure versus "American" texture in German high-rise building" (PDF), GHI Bulletin Supplement, 2: 65–86
Diefendorf, Jeffry (1993), In the Wake of War: The Reconstruction of German Cities after World War II, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-507219-8
Durth, Werner (2001), Deutsche Architekten (in German), Karl Krämer Verlag, ISBN 978-3-7828-1141-5
Düwel, Jörn; Gutschow, Niels (2015), Baukunst und Nationalsozialismus. Demonstration von Macht in Europa. Die Ausstellung Neue Deutsche Baukunst von Rudolf Wolters (in German), DOM publishers, ISBN 978-3869220260
Fest, Joachim (1999), Speer: The Final Verdict, translated by Ewald Osers and Alexandra Dring, Harcourt, ISBN 978-0-15-100556-7
Fest, Joachim (2007), Albert Speer: Conversations with Hitler's Architect, translated by Patrick Camiller, Polity Press, ISBN 978-0-7456-3918-5
King, Henry T. (1997), The Two Worlds of Albert Speer: Reflections of a Nuremberg Prosecutor, University Press of America, ISBN 978-0-7618-0872-5
Schmidt, Matthias (1984), Albert Speer: The End of a Myth, St Martins Press, ISBN 978-0-312-01709-5
Sereny, Gitta (1995), Albert Speer: His Battle With Truth, Knopf, ISBN 978-0-394-52915-8
Speer, Albert (1970), Inside the Third Reich (Translated by Richard and Clara Winston), New York and Toronto: Macmillan, LCCN 70119132. Republished in paperback in 1997 by Simon & Schuster, ISBN 978-0-684-82949-4
(Original German edition: Speer, Albert (1969), Errinerungen [Reminiscences], Berlin and Frankfurt am Main: Propyläen/Ullstein, OCLC 639475)
Speer, Albert (1976), Spandau: The Secret Diaries (Translated by Richard and Clara Winston), New York and Toronto: Macmillan, ISBN 978-0-02-612810-0
(Original German edition: Speer, Albert (1975), Spandauer Tagebücher [Spandau Diaries], Berlin and Frankfurt am Main: Propyläen/Ullstein, OCLC 185306869)
Speer, Albert (1981), Infiltration: How Heinrich Himmler Schemed to Build an SS Industrial Empire, Macmillan, ISBN 978-0-02-612800-1
(Original German edition: Speer, Albert (1981), Der Sklavenstaat. Meine Auseinandersetzungen mit der SS [The Slave State: My Battles with the SS], Deutsche Verlags-Anstalt, ISBN 978-3-421-06059-4, OCLC 7610230)
van der Vat, Dan (1997), The Good Nazi: The Life and Lies of Albert Speer, George Weidenfeld & Nicolson, ISBN 978-0-297-81721-5
Wolters, Fritz (1984), "Wolters: Architektenfamilie aus Coesfeld", Bauwelt (in German), 75: 670–71
Wolters, Rudolf (1943), "Vom Beruf des Baumeisters", Die Kunst Im Deutschen Reich—Die Baukunst, 9: 143–45
Online

Das Erste, Rudolf Wolters (1903–1983) (in German), archived from the original on April 8, 2008, retrieved January 3, 2012
Hotel Königshof, History of the Hotel, archived from the original on December 30, 2011, retrieved January 2, 2012
Wagner, Jens-Christian (July 19, 2007), "Der Fall Lübke", Die Zeit (in German), retrieved January 2, 2012

European route E 79 is a road part of the International E-road network. It begins in Miskolc, Hungary and ends in Thessaloniki, Greece, also running through Romania and Bulgaria. The road is 1,300 km (810 mi) long. The Vidin-Botevgrad section of the Route is currently being built while 13,6 kilometers have been opened.


== Itinerary ==
The E 79 routes through four European countries:
 Hungary

 M30: Miskolc (Start of Concurrency of  E71) - Igrici
 M3: Igrici (End of Concurrency of  E71) - Görbeháza
 M35: Görbeháza - Debrecen ( E573) - Berettyóújfalu
 M4: Berettyóújfalu (Start of Concurrency of  E60) - Nagykereki
 Romania

 DN1: Borș - Oradea (End of Concurrency of  E60)
 DN76: Oradea - Beiuș - Deva
 A 1: Deva bypass ( E68)
 DN66: Deva - Petroșani - Târgu Jiu - Filiași
 DN6: Filiași (Start of Concurrency of  E70) - Craiova (End of Concurrency of  E70)
 DN56: Craiova - Calafat
 Bulgaria

 I-1: Vidin - Montana - Vratsa - Botevgrad
 A 2 (Hemus motorway): Botevgrad - Sofia
 A 6 (Europe motorway):  E80  E871
 I-18 (Sofia Ring Road): West (Western arc)
 A 3: Sofia - Pernik – Blagoevgrad
 I-1: Blagoevgrad - Kulata
 Greece

 A25: Promachonas - Serres - Thessaloniki ( E90)


== Route description ==


=== Hungary ===
The Hungarian section of E79 shares parts of its path with other E-roads, such as E60, E573 and E71.


=== Romania ===
The Romanian section of the road is mostly new asphalt, as can be seen on the map with Romanian road quality. Although only in the region of 500 km (310 mi) the road itself has many curves as it goes directly through 2 major mountain groups of the Carpathian range: the Apuseni Mountains and the Meridionali Mountains. With a 50 km/h (31 mph) restriction when passing through the many minor villages, and a large part of its length in the Carpathian mountains (about 40-50% of its length in Romania), the average speed is generally in the 50–60 km/h range. 
Especially in the mountainous parts, the road can be considered as more suitable for tourism than for high speed traveling, but as it has been in a very poor state up until a couple of years ago, touristic infrastructure is still poorly developed (road side hotels, restaurants). Plan ahead if you consider staying overnight in hotels on this route (best options are outside of the cities, with few exceptions - Oradea, Deva - but there are not so many decent locations for accommodation).
Since 2012, work has begun to improve the quality of this road:

A. Oradea – Deva (Șoimuș) [under construction on approx. 2-3 % of its length]: Most of the road in this section has been modernized (as of August 2021, about 95% is in good condition). Drive carefully, especially during the night or in bad weather conditions, as many safety elements may be missing (there are many parts with good asphalt, but no traffic signs and road marks). Parts of the road are still under construction, while other parts have been finished and are good (some excellent). In August 2021, 3 traffic lights were still in place on this section.
Contracts were signed in late 2012 to improve this section. Status of work progress is December 2017, by section, North to South:
- Oradea-Beiuș (cca. 60 km): This section has been recently re-done completely. There may still be areas with poor or no road markings, so travel carefully especially during the night.
-  Beiuș-Ștei (cca. 28 km): This section has been recently re-done completely. There may still be areas with poor or no road markings, so travel carefully especially during the night. Constructor: AZVI/AZCALE (cca. 100 mil. RON without VAT, contract 5R13, progress in December 2016: >90%).
- Ștei-Vârfurile (cca. 33 km): Currently under construction on about 20-30% of its length. There still are 3 traffic lights in this sector. Work is progressing normally and the sector should be finished by the end of 2021. First contractor: SC Antreprenor Construct Mod SRL (progress status: 70% in December 2016). Contract was terminated and rest of the work was re-auctioned. Second constructor: Asocierea DRUM ASFALT S.R.L. & VAHOSTAV - SK a.s. & TRAMECO S.A. & ILE VIOREL CONSTRUCT S.R.L. (contract signed in May 2020).
- Vârfurile-Ionești (cca. 14 km): This mountainous section is still under construction (2–3 km still in heavy construction), with some parts in good condition (asphalt), but with no road markings, so travel carefully during the night. On many climbs, now there are 2 lines going up hill and one line down, so passing heavy traffic is possible. Original contractor was VIALES Y OBRAS PUBLICAS (cca. 43 mil RON without VAT, contract 5R11, progress in 2015: 29.76%). Contract cancelled in September 2015. Re-auctioned recently. Auction won by SC SYLC CON TRANS SRL / HIDROSTROY AD --- 55.945.649,16 RON without VAT. source
Starting with Ionești, the road is good until as far south as Calafat (400 km), with only very small portions still under construction.
- Ionești-Brad (cca. 20 km): PORR (cca. 65 mil. RON without VAT, contract 5R10b, 100% finished in December 2017).
- Șoimuș-Brad (cca. 30 km): SELINA (105 mil. RON without VAT, contract 5R10a, progress status in December 2017 - 100% - section accepted as completed by the national road company).
Initial financing sources for all contracts was: 50% from the state budget, 50% loaned from the European Investment Bank. On 4 December 2013, the Romanian Ministry for European Funds included this project on the list of infrastructure projects financed by the EU. The Ministry sent to the European Commission a request to evaluate the financing of this sector, for a total of 210 million Euro (of which 142 million Euro from the EU through the ERDF mechanism).

B. Deva – Petroșani [good, done]: The road has been significantly improved in the last years, being widened and having excellent asphalt quality on the entire section of the road (construction finished in 2012). It has recently been repaired (top layer of asphalt replaced). Small portions may still be under repair near Simeria (as of August 2021), but all work should finish in autumn/winter 2021. The portion Simeria-Hateg has no road markings (August 2021), but this too should be fixed by the end of the year.
C. Petroșani – Bumbești Jiu [good, small part still under construction - less than 1 km]: This section should be considered as good. Conditions have improved in late 2017  (due to rehabilitation work done by Copisa Constructora Pirenaica–Chirulli Andrea Impresa Individual–Coremi Inter joint venture - 34 mil. euro contract, signed on 29 June 2012). On 29 November 2013, the Romanian Ministry for European Funds sent to the European Commission a request to evaluate the financing of this sector, for a total of 396 million Euro (of which 288 eligible for EU funds, of which 244 million Euro from the EU through the ERDF mechanism). Works on this section were expected to take around two years, and were expected to be finished by the end of 2014. In December 2016, the section was still under construction on about 40% of its length. It is currently almost completely rehabilitated, with very good asphalt and jersey blocks to prevent fall into the valley. A small part of the road (less than 1 km), near an old monastery (Lainici), is still under construction in 2021 (as several variants were considered to move traffic away from the building). 2 bridges over the river Jiu are still under construction (Lainici and Bumbești), but will most likely be finished during 2018.
D. Bumbești Jiu – Craiova [good, minor construction work]: The section Bumbești Jiu – Rovinari is in good condition, almost completely rehabilitated (rehabilitation work by Asocierea Comsa S.A.U. - Corporate Management Solution SRL, 117 mil. RON, 85% FEDR + 15% National funds, 90% done in January 2016 according to the national roads company ). The section Rovinari - Filiasi has been repaired in 2010, by FCC Construccion, and is currently in good condition. The section Filiași – Craiova is part of the DN6 road and is in good condition, also being repaired in 2010.
E. Craiova – Calafat [good, almost done, cca. 95%]: In December 2017, the 2 sub-sections (Craiova-Galicea Mare, Galicea Mare-Calafat) are 92%, and 98% done. On 6 December 2013, the Romanian Ministry for European Funds sent to the European Commission a request to evaluate the financing of this sector, for a total of 73 million Euro (of which 47 million Euro from the EU through the ERDF mechanism).


=== Bulgaria ===

The Bulgarian section of E79 spans nearly 400 km (250 mi) from the North Bulgarian city of Vidin, connecting the Calafat–Vidin Bridge across the Danube River and straight southwards towards Bulgaria's capital Sofia. The road has a moderately good surface, it is constantly maintained and repaired and well signed with directing signs in Bulgarian and in English. Most of the way from Vidin to Botevgrad, the road is two-lane tarmac road following the natural relief of the landscape. There are sections where 3 lanes for overtaking slow-moving traffic are available. Rest stops and parking spots near the road are also available. The Bulgarian Traffic law prescribes a 50 km/h (31 mph) in most residential areas coinciding with the route of the road and not more than 90 km/h (56 mph) on the section of the road outside living areas. Currently the Vidin-Montana motorway and Montana-Botevgrad expressway are under construction with planned speed up to 120 km/h (75 mph).
From Botevgrad to Sofia, E79 joins Hemus motorway (A2). At the Bulgarian capital Sofia it follows Sofia Northern Bypass motorway and then Sofia Ring Road. From Sofia all the way to the border with Greece, E79 joins Struma motorway (A3) with the exception of the Kresna Gorge pass, which still use the old 2-lane standard road. The Bulgarian Traffic law allows speeds up to 140 km/h (87 mph) on motorways unless otherwise stated.
There are no restrictions to trucks driving in the weekends (except when temps rise above 38 °C (100 °F)) so they pose additional road hazard particularly high when driving at night. Traffic is usually heavy on weekends and overtaking has to be done swiftly and without risk, minding the other participants in the traffic.
At night, motorcyclists are required (and that is strongly advisable for their own safety) to use high-visibility vests.


=== Greece ===
The E79 in Greece is about 110 km (68 mi) long, and currently runs from Promachonas in the north to Thessaloniki in the south, via Serres. In relation to the national road network, the E79 currently follows (in order, from north to south):

The A25 motorway, from Promachonas to Lagkadas
The A2 motorway, from Lagkadas to Efkarpia
The EO2 road, from Efkarpia to Thessaloniki
The E79 runs concurrently with the E90 on the A2 segment: the E79 also connects with the Thessaloniki branch of the E75, at Plateia Dimokratias.


== References ==


== External links ==
UN Economic Commission for Europe: Overall Map of E-road Network (2007)

Dąbrowa [dɔmˈbrɔva] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wieluń, within Wieluń County, Łódź Voivodeship, in south-central Poland.


== History ==
In 1827, it had a population of 174.
During the German occupation of Poland (World War II), in 1940, the German gendarmerie carried out expulsions of Poles, who were placed in a transit camp in Łódź, and then young Poles were deported to forced labour in Germany and German-occupied France, and others were deported to the General Government in the more eastern part of German-occupied Poland. Houses and farms of expelled Poles were handed over to German colonists as part of the Lebensraum policy.


== References ==

The Independence Intifada[1] or the Second Sahrawi Intifada (intifada is Arabic for "uprising") and also May Intifada is a Sahrawi activist term for a series of disturbances, demonstrations and riots that broke out in May 2005  in the Moroccan-controlled parts of Western Sahara and south of Morocco. This event has also been called The El-Aaiun Intifada  by the same sources.


== Background ==

Western Sahara, formerly Spanish Sahara, was annexed by Morocco in 1975, as Spain pulled out. A war with the Polisario Front, which according to the UN represent the indigenous Sahrawi population, and was backed by neighboring Algeria, ensued. In 1991 a cease-fire was agreed upon, on the condition of a referendum on self-determination (including the options of independence or integration into Morocco). Since 1991 the terms of a referendum have been subject to years of dispute between the parties, although the cease-fire continues to hold despite remaining tensions. Morocco controls the majority of the territory, with Polisario forces controlling a rump. A UN mission MINURSO mission patrols the demarcation line.
Sahrawi political activity in the Moroccan-controlled parts of Western Sahara remains severely restricted, and police crackdowns and forced disappearances were a frequent response to civil protest.[2] The political climate gradually relaxed in the 1990s, after the cease-fire, and following considerable liberalization in Morocco proper. Since political liberalization, intermittent protests have broken out and pro-Polisario groups have declaring minor "intifadas" in 1999 and 2000, often resulting in dozens of demonstrators being arrested.[3][4]


== Demonstrations and arrests ==
Demonstrations began on 21 May 2005 in El Aaiún, after relatives protesting the transfer of a Sahrawi prisoner accused of drug dealing and insulting the Moroccan monarchy to a prison in Agadir were violently dispersed by police, provoking further demonstrations over the next several days. Protests spread by the end of May to other towns in the Western Sahara, such as Smara and Dakhla, and were accompanied by demonstrations by Sahrawi students living in Moroccan cities such as Agadir, Casablanca, Fes, Marrakech and Rabat. Moroccan public security units quelled the disturbances, although some subsequent pro-independence demonstrations have subsequently flared up, most recently reported in November 2005. On 30 October 2005, a first fatality was recorded when 31-year-old Hamdi Lembarki died after what human rights organizations assured was police brutality during his arrest, although at first Moroccan authorities attributed his death to an accident.
Over a hundred pro-Polisario Sahrawi protesters were reported arrested by Moroccan authorities by international human rights, and approximately thirty demonstrators and well-known Sahrawi human rights-activists have been imprisoned after summary trials.[5] Among them are the former political prisoner Ali Salem Tamek (who did not partake directly in any demonstrations, but was arrested when returning from abroad), human rights-activist Mohamed Elmoutaoikil, and Aminatou Haidar, a former disappeared. An international campaign for her release was signed by 178 members of the European Parliament, and she was nominated as a candidate for the Sakharov Prize.[6][7] A 50-day hunger strike of all the arrested Sahrawis put the health of several at risk, and the action was aborted.
On 14 December 2005, 14 pro-independence Sahrawis and human-rights activists, including the activists mentioned above and most of the remaining pro-Polisario Sahrawi political leadership, were sentenced to between six months and three years in prison by an El-Aaiún court, on charges of disturbing public order, membership of illegal associations, incitement to unrest, damaging public property and rioting.[8] They denied the charges of using violence. Both Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch had expressed serious concern over the trials, pointing to reports of torture and previous abuse of some of the prisoners.[9][10]


== International reactions ==
Several international human rights-organizations have shown interest in alleged Moroccan abuse of Sahrawi demonstrators. Amnesty International has demanded an investigation into reports of torture of prisoners and called for fair trials, and the release of political prisoners.[11] This has been echoed by Human Rights Watch and others.[12]
Morocco has limited journalists' and diplomats' access to the territory, claiming that their public presence is used by pro-Polisario activists to trigger more riots. Investigative missions from European countries have been denied access to the territory, including several high-ranking parliamentary delegations and foreign ambassadors to Morocco.[13] Several foreign journalists, mainly European, but also al Jazeera correspondents, were expelled after interviewing protesters, and others have been prevented from visiting it. In November 2005, Moroccan authorities shut down a number of pro-independence or pro-Polisario Internet sites. This was condemned by Reporters Without Borders as an example of internet censorship.[14]
The European Parliament voted 98 in favor, 1 abstention and 0 votes against an October 2005 resolution that "deplored" expulsions of journalists covering the uprising and demanded the "immediate release" of political prisoners.[15]


== Aftermath ==


== See also ==
Human rights in Western Sahara
Human rights in Morocco
Years of lead
Zemla Intifada
Sahrawi refugee camps


== References ==

^ An Urgent Appeal
^ Amnesty International – REPORT 1999: MOROCCO AND WESTERN SAHARA
^ Amnesty International – Morocco / Western Sahara – Covering events from January – December 2003
^ U.S. Department of State – Western Sahara – 2001 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices
^ Reuters – Policemen held after W. Sahara youth's death
^ Amnesty International – Morocco / Western Sahara – Sahrawi human rights defenders under attack
^ Western Sahara Human Rights – LISTE des PRISONNIERS et CONDAMNES au cours de l'INTIFADA 2005 (in French)
^ Western Sahara Human Rights – FREE AMINATOU HAIDAR
^ Western Sahara Human Rights – Members of the European Parliament who support the International Campaign for the liberation of AMINATOU HAIDAR and of all Saharawi political prisoners
^ Reuters – Morocco jails Western Sahara activists over riots
^ Human Rights Watch – Morocco/Western Sahara: Activists Need Fair Trial
^ Reporters without borders – Morocco puts US censorship busting site Anonymizer.com on its black list
^ European Parliament resolution on human rights in Western Sahara[link removed]


== External links ==
New arrests and allegations of torture of Sahrawi human rights defenders Archived 24 March 2006 at the Wayback Machine Amnesty International
Sahrawi Human Rights Defenders Under Attack Amnesty International
Letter to King Mohamed VI Human Rights Watch

